Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3731
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, MAY 14, 2019 No. 80
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. RASKIN).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
May 14, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JAMIE
RASKIN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
VOTE TO LOWER PRESCRIPTION
DRUG COSTS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, about
6 months ago, this country went
through a historic election that shat-
tered records that go back almost 100
years. It was the largest voter turnout
for a midterm election since 1914. It
elected a new majority in the House of
Representatives by over 10 million
votes.
If you drill down below those top
lines, what you will see is that the big-
gest driving issue for American voters,
who turned up in record numbers last
November, was, in fact, the issue of
healthcare.
If you drill down even further, what
you will find is that the cost of pre-
scription drugs was the biggest concern
that people had about the security and
stability of their healthcare. And why
not?
Recent polling by Kaiser showed that
79 percent of Americans feel that pre-
scription drug prices are unreasonable.
Eighty percent believe that pharma-
ceutical company profits are to blame.
One-third of Americans said they
haven’t taken their medications as pre-
scribed because they have trouble af-
fording it.
Again, the stories, in terms of the
disparity of pricing in the U.S. versus
other parts of the civilized, developed
world, are just rampant. Obviously, we
pay the highest prices here in this
country, and the next highest country,
Switzerland, pays 25 percent less than
U.S. patients do for comparable medi-
cations.
This week, the new majority in the
House of Representatives is going to be
taking up H.R. 987, the Strengthening
Health Care and Lowering Prescription
Drug Costs Act, which we will be vot-
ing on either Thursday or Friday. This
bill, which listened to patients all
across the country and stakeholders
who have been trying to endure these
ridiculous costs, will do a number of
things.
Number one, it will end pay-for-
delay, which will prohibit brand-drug
manufacturers from paying off generic
companies that produce a competing
generic drug. In other words, they are
maintaining their exclusivity by pay-
ing off generic manufacturers, which
are designed to create a stronger mar-
ketplace and lower prices for American
patients.
It also ends the practice of parking
by generic drug companies. Again, once
you apply to the FDA for a generic
drug, you can get 180 days where you
exclude anyone else, any other generic
manufacturer, from competing with a
similar medication.
The FDA has estimated that these
practices cost American patients $3.5
billion in higher drug costs every year.
We will be voting this week, finally,
to stand up to special interests, to lis-
ten to what experts and people who are
close to this market are telling us
about ways of trying to widen the mar-
ketplace to create more competition,
and to, ultimately, lower the drug
costs for American patients that are
killing State Medicaid budgets and are
also killing employer-based health
plans. If you listen to what they are
saying, that is where the cost driving
is the most acute.
This past week, in the State of Con-
necticut, Attorney General William
Tong announced a new lawsuit against
generic manufacturers, which was
profiled on ‘‘60 Minutes’’ last Sunday
night.
Mr. Tong demonstrated how they
have smoking-gun evidence of price-
fixing amongst different drug compa-
nies. Forty-four States are joining Con-
necticut in that effort.
It is time, whether it is the legisla-
tive branch of Congress or whether it is
a different branch, in the court sys-
tems, that we start holding drug com-
panies accountable.
The vote that is going to take place
this week keeps faith with that his-
toric turnout last fall to make sure
that we are going to get real action to
address the issue of healthcare.
RELIEF FOR BLUE WATER NAVY VIETNAM
VETERANS
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, we are
also voting this week on H.R. 299—it
will be this evening—the Blue Water
Navy Vietnam Veterans Act, which
will finally eliminate a 17-year barrier
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.000 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3732 May 14, 2019
for people who served in the sea serv-
ices during the Vietnam conflict and
who are being denied access to VA ben-
efits for the scourge of Agent Orange
illnesses.
Again, this is a process that has
taken forever. We passed this measure
in the last Congress by unanimous
vote. It was blocked from consideration
by two Senators last December.
Congratulations to MARK TAKANO,
our new House Committee on Veterans’
Affairs chairman, for bringing up this
bill immediately in the new House of
Representatives, to make sure that we
get this long-overdue justice for people
who served in the Vietnam conflict
taken care of.
Veterans service organizations that
have been relentless in their advocacy
for blue water Vietnam veterans, such
as The American Legion, Veterans of
Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of
America, Disabled American Veterans,
Vietnam Veterans of America,
AMVETS, MOAA, and Military Order
of the Purple Heart, are supporting
this legislation.
It is going to be important for us to
get this bill passed out of this Chamber
and force the Senate to do the right
thing and provide justice for those who
served in that conflict and who are still
suffering from cancers, from heart dis-
ease, and from skin ailments because of
exposure to a chemical that they had
absolutely no idea was unsafe.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
PROCEEDINGS OF FORMER
MEMBERS PROGRAM
The following proceedings were held
before the House convened for morn-
ing-hour debate:
UNITED STATES ASSOCIATION OF FORMER MEM-
BERS OF CONGRESS 2019 ANNUAL REPORT TO
CONGRESS
The meeting was called to order by
the Honorable Cliff Stearns, vice presi-
dent of Former Members of Congress
Association, at 8 a.m.
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Lord God of history, we thank You
for this day, when former Members re-
turn to Congress to continue, in a less
official manner, their service to our
Nation and to this noble institution.
May their presence here bring a mo-
ment of pause where current Members
consider the profiles they now form for
future generations of Americans.
May all former Members be rewarded
for their contributions to this constitu-
tional Republic and continue to work
and pray that the goodness and justice
of this beloved country be proclaimed
to the nations.
Bless all former Members who have
died since last year’s meeting—24 in
all. May their families and their con-
stituents be comforted during a time of
mourning and forever know our grati-
tude for the sacrifices made in service
to Congress.
Finally, bless those here gathered,
that they might bring joy and hope to
the present age and supportive com-
panionship to one another.
Together, we call upon Your holy
name, now and forever.
Amen.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Honorable Cliff Stearns led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Mr. STEARNS. The Chair now recog-
nizes the president of the United States
Association of Former Members of
Congress, the Honorable Martin Frost
of Texas, to address the Members.
Mr. FROST. Thank you, Cliff. It is
always a distinct privilege to be back
in this revered Chamber and to see so
many of my good friends and former
colleagues here.
On behalf of FMC, I appreciate the
Speaker’s invitation to return to this
wonderful place and to present to Con-
gress FMC’s 49th annual report.
I will be joined by some of our col-
leagues in reporting on FMC’s activi-
ties and vision for the future.
I also am submitting, for the RECORD,
a more detailed review of FMC’s 2018
activities.
First, I would like to ask the Clerk
to call the roll.
The Clerk called the roll and the fol-
lowing Members answered ‘‘present’’:
Mr. Blanchard of Michigan
Mr. Coyne of Pennsylvania
Mr. Carr of Michigan
Mr. DioGuardi of New York
Mr. Frost of Texas
Mr. Gingrey of Georgia
Mr. Goodlatte of Virginia
Mr. Green of Texas
Mr. Hertel of Michigan
Mr. Jones of Oklahoma
Ms. Kennelly of Connecticut
Mr. Kolbe of Arizona
Mr. Konnyu of California
Mr. Kopetski of Oregon
Mr. Lancaster of North Carolina
Ms. Lincoln of Arkansas
Mr. Matheson of Utah
Mr. McMillen of Maryland
Mr. Mica of Florida
Ms. Morella of Maryland
Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania
Mr. Payne of Virginia
Mr. Rahall of West Virginia
Mr. Slattery of Kansas
Mr. Stearns of Florida
Mr. Tanner of Tennessee
Mr. Weldon of Florida
Mr. STEARNS. The Chair announces
that 27 former Members of Congress
have responded to their names.
Mr. FROST. Thank you all for join-
ing us today. As I prepared for today’s
report, it brought back many, many
happy memories of my 26 years serving
in this august body.
For all of us, service in this remark-
able building was the pinnacle of our
professional lives, and I know that for
each and every one of us there are
memories that will forever remind us
of the great privilege we enjoyed as a
representative of our constituents.
For me, these memories include
great friendships with colleagues from
both sides of the aisle, working with
terrific and talented young people as a
part of my staff, and pushing forward
pieces of legislation that I know have
made a huge, positive difference.
By serving in Congress, we were
given the opportunity to serve our
country and its citizens. I am very
proud that through FMC we can con-
tinue, in a small measure, the public
service that brought us to Congress in
the first place.
My colleagues and I will describe
later in this report the many projects
through which FMC Members continue
to give back.
As you know, every year during our
annual meeting we seek to recognize a
colleague for her or his exemplary pub-
lic service before, during and after Con-
gress. This tradition was started in
1974, when we recognized President
Gerry Ford with our first Distin-
guished Service Award and has contin-
ued annually since. Other recipients in-
clude Tip O’Neill, Bob Michel, Jack
Kemp, Tom Foley, and many others.
The award rotates between the par-
ties, and this year a Republican former
Member is slated to be recognized.
When our executive committee start-
ed considering whom to honor, imme-
diately Connie Morella of Maryland
emerged as the clear favorite, and, by
unanimous consent, we agreed that she
should be our 2019 Distinguished Serv-
ice honoree.
I now invite Connie to join me here
at the dais.
Connie, I have a few remarks, and
then you will have the opportunity to
say something also.
Connie Morella, former Member of
the House of Representatives and
former ambassador, exemplifies like
few others a commitment to serving
her community and her Nation.
Her entire career, since earning her
B.A. from Boston University, was fo-
cused on public service. Initially, that
service was in education as a secondary
school teacher in Montgomery County.
Though impossible to confirm, I would
guess that Montgomery County is the
place in America with the highest
number of residents able to quote
Shakespeare, thanks to her.
She became active in politics based
on an issue that defined her political
career: women’s rights.
Little did she know, when she be-
came involved with the League of
Women Voters, that she herself would
become a trailblazer, an inspiration,
and a mentor to countless women lead-
ers spanning generations.
After serving in the Maryland House
of Delegates for 8 years, she ran for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.002 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3733
May 14, 2019
Congress and commenced a 16-year ca-
reer in the House of Representatives.
She quickly became known as a
thoughtful, energetic, and pragmatic
legislator who was able to forge bipar-
tisan consensus and bring Members to-
gether on even the most difficult
issues.
After leaving Congress in 2003, Presi-
dent Bush appointed her our Ambas-
sador to the OECD, where she served
until 2007.
Upon returning to the United States,
Connie became active in a number of
issues and organizations, and luckily
FMC was one of them.
The years she served as FMC’s presi-
dent, 2012 through 2014, were some of
our most productive, and she lay the
foundation for all the success FMC has
enjoyed since.
On behalf of the membership, board
of directors, and staff of FMC, it is
with great personal pleasure that I
present our 2019 Distinguished Service
Award to an outstanding American and
an exemplary public servant: Connie
Morella of Maryland.
Some of you who attended our dinner
may remember that someone on the
stage dropped the award, and I am
going to be careful not to drop this
one.
Connie, in addition to our award, we
also have collected for you a great
many letters of congratulations from
your colleagues, and we have a book of
those letters.
Anyone who has not contributed
their letter can submit it to the office,
and we will make sure that Connie gets
that.
We now would be thrilled for you to
share some remarks. But let’s put this
down so neither one of us drops it.
Ms. MORELLA. This is beautiful.
What a tome. This is great. Thank you.
I want to thank you very much,
President Frost. You reminded me of
something Mae West had said: Too
much of a good thing can be downright
enjoyable.
I enjoyed it, but you could have gone
on even further, although you did ex-
ceed the time limit.
Thank you very much for the lauda-
tory and generous remarks. I want to
thank you, also, for your leadership in
the organization. You are a guy who
has your eye on the objective, on the
prize, and you work unrelentingly until
you succeed. And you do succeed. You
never retreat.
My special thanks and appreciation
to the Association of Former Members
of Congress, to the board, to my col-
league Members. What an outstanding
group whose action promotes dialogue,
bipartisanship, and service.
I am very moved and humbled by this
great honor, especially because it
comes from my dear friends and col-
leagues. There is nothing higher than
getting an award from your peers, it
means a great deal. And it means a
great deal to me, because it is from
people who have served, many with me,
very well in the people’s House.
I reflect with awe on the list of pre-
vious recipients. Some of them were
mentioned by President Frost: Bob
Michel, Lee Hamilton, Lindy Boggs,
Amo Houghton, Ray LaHood, and oth-
ers. Incredible company, people I have
respected and admired. And I accept
the honor for all of you. I want to
thank you for your continuous passion
for the people’s House and for your
friendship.
I am a lucky, happy camper. I am the
daughter of immigrant parents. I am
the first in my family to go to college.
I can boast of a wonderful family. I
have been able to serve, as was men-
tioned, in my State, my country, here
and overseas, and to work with dedi-
cated people, Members of Congress and
former Members who are seeking solu-
tions.
I firmly believe that everyone who
seeks office is motivated by a pas-
sionate desire to serve, a reason that
would make things better for all. For
me, as was suggested, it was the wom-
en’s movement that put the movement
into me. I was appointed to a commis-
sion for women in Montgomery County
in the seventies, and at that time a
Member of Congress, Martha Griffiths,
introduced—not the first time—the
Equal Rights Amendment. She got it
passed through a draft resolution.
The discharge petition, remember
that?
She passed it. It went through the
Senate, signed by the President.
But amendment was needed to ap-
prove it to become part of the Con-
stitution. So I started lobbying for
Maryland to pass the amendment, and,
as you know, we needed 38 States. That
was when I realized the inequities, the
inequities in education, credit, edu-
cation. I then decided I wanted to seek
office in the Maryland Legislature to
have a seat at the table.
So, after 8 years serving in the Mary-
land House of Delegates, I was elected
to Congress, the 100th Congress, with
many people who still serve, like
NANCY PELOSI, JOHN LEWIS, FRED
UPTON, and many others who serve and
many who are former Members, some
who are here today, Dave Skaggs, Amo
Houghton, Ernie Konnyu.
I served in the House for 16 years: For
8 years, I was a minority in the minor-
ity; for 8 years, I was a minority in the
majority. I represented a highly com-
petitive district, as you all know, and
as Charlie Cook once said: That
Morella, she knows her district. She
will go ‘‘to the opening of an enve-
lope.’’
And indeed, I did; it is true. That is
still being done, but, unfortunately,
more time is being spent raising
money. And I must add something else
that usurps time, and that is social
media.
Well, it was an active time. We broke
barriers as in women’s health research,
violence against women, the Americans
with Disabilities Act, and we created
opportunities in technology, in STEM.
We witnessed the fall of the Berlin
Wall, the Soviet Union, apartheid in
South Africa, but also 9/11.
We also witnessed bipartisanship,
working together, seeking compromise
to get results. We respected dif-
ferences, whether party label or con-
stituencies, and we got things done.
Indeed, when I would introduce a
measure, I would gather together
Democrats to sign on as sponsors, and
the Democrats would do the same
thing with me for sponsorship. And
why? Bipartisanship got results. In
fact, it is the only way to get desired
results, and you establish trust with
your constituents.
It also strengthened the bond of
friendship. And there were many
friendships from Members of Congress
while I was there and many friendships
with my former Member colleagues.
My hope is that Congress Members
will reach out across the aisle to know
each other personally. They will learn
of their colleagues’ aspirations, their
family, their issues, and, most often,
become friends.
The greatest tool of the diplomat,
wherever and in whatever, is to listen,
to learn, and to lead. They will learn
the greatest tool is that. This is the
path to forging compromises for our
country and to appreciating and re-
specting each other.
These ingredients, friends, haven’t
changed, as you know full well. George
Washington, when he was age 15, wrote
‘‘Rules for Civility and Decent Behav-
ior.’’ Rule number one:
When in the company of others, act with
respect for those who are present.
You can’t beat that advice. I am a
confirmed political junky. I agree with
W.B. Yeats, who wrote:
I was here to wind the clock. I want to
hear it strike.
I agree and I care. And again, my
thanks to all of you, my heartfelt
thanks. I have to quote Shakespeare,
don’t I?
For these great graces heap’d upon me, I
can nothing render but allegiant thanks.
Mr. FROST. And, Connie, I know it
may come as a great surprise to you,
but the great State of Texas that Gene
Green and I represented was one of the
first States in the country to pass the
Equal Rights Amendment.
Ms. MORELLA. Very good. Thank
you very much.
Mr. FROST. I am not sure the cur-
rent legislature would have done the
same thing, but that was a different
era.
Again, congratulations to you,
Connie, and thank you so much for all
you have done and continue to do for
FMC.
It is now my great honor in my ca-
pacity as president of FMC to report on
FMC’s activities for 2018 and 2019.
We are one of a very small group of
nonprofits that have a congressional
charter, and as such, we are required to
report to Congress every year on our
past activities. I will give a broad over-
view of our past work and have sub-
mitted for the RECORD a more detailed
written report.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.005 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3734 May 14, 2019
Now, I must note that the very com-
petent staff member who prepared
these remarks doesn’t realize that
some of us from the South speak more
slowly than some other people from the
rest of the country, so Phil Gingrey,
who will speak later, and I will try to
speed it up as much as we can.
Our association was founded in 1970
and chartered by Congress 13 years
later, in 1983. We are completely bipar-
tisan and see our mission as informing
about Congress and bridging the polit-
ical divide. That mission is translated
into programs that bring former Mem-
bers together with student audiences
across the Nation, focusing on civics
and public service.
We also further our mission by cre-
ating programs and study missions in-
volving current Members of Congress
on a bipartisan basis. This work, over
the years, has been extended to now in-
clude congressional staff, both from
the D.C. offices as well as district di-
rectors across the Nation. We are suc-
cessful because Republicans and Demo-
crats, whether former Members or cur-
rent Members, come together in part-
nership with a willingness to work to-
gether for the common good.
We are proud to have been chartered
by Congress, and we are equally proud
that absolutely no taxpayer dollar is
earmarked or expended to make our
programs possible. Everything FMC
does is financed via grants and spon-
sors, our membership dues, and our an-
nual fundraising gala, the Statesman-
ship Awards Dinner.
Our colleagues L.F. Payne and Mike
Ferguson led our fundraising efforts for
the most recent gala dinner at the Mel-
lon Auditorium, and I am extremely
pleased to report that, thanks to their
leadership and the incredible efforts of
a great many former Members, we had
our most successful fundraising dinner
when we honored Senator BURR and
Senator KLOBUCHAR, as well as the
House Problem Solvers Caucus and the
Lufthansa Group for their corporate
philanthropy. My thanks to all our col-
leagues who work so hard on this out-
standing event.
Thanks to this success as well as our
year-round fundraising efforts, I can
report to Congress and the FMC mem-
bership that our finances are sound,
our projects are fully funded, and our
most recent annual audit by an outside
accountant confirmed we are running
FMC in a fiscally sound, responsible,
and transparent manner. And let me
stress again that no taxpayer dollars
are earmarked for our work, that ev-
erything we do is self-funded.
Let me stress, also, that we are a vol-
unteer organization, and our programs
have an impact because our members,
on a bipartisanship basis, contribute to
us their knowledge and time. We are
successful because former Representa-
tives and Senators come together,
across party lines, for the good of our
organization, and they do so on a pro
bono basis. They believe in our mis-
sion, and they continue to have the
public servant’s heart.
Former Members of Congress, in 2018,
donated to FMC over 7,000 hours of en-
ergy, wisdom, mentoring, and expertise
without receiving any compensation
for it. Their own remuneration is the
knowledge that they are giving back,
that serving in Congress was a unique
privilege and it comes with the man-
date to encourage and empower the
next generation.
On behalf of FMC, I want to thank all
of our colleagues who have contributed
their time and expertise to make FMC
such a great success.
We are extremely proud of our nearly
50-year history creating lasting and
impactful programs that teach about
Congress and representative govern-
ment, at home and abroad. Next year
will be FMC’s 50th birthday, and it is
truly amazing how much we have ac-
complished.
Let me give you a brief overview of
2018 and also a vision for 2019 and be-
yond.
Over the past 12 months, our FMC
staff has conceived, organized, adver-
tised, and implemented almost 100
events to move our mission forward.
This is an astonishing number for a
staff of 11 that relies completely on
former Member volunteers for all our
projects.
These events ranged from meeting
with middle school students right here
in the House Chamber to talk to them
about the many responsibilities a
Member of Congress has, to week-long
study missions where current Member
delegations, split evenly between the
parties, traveled to countries, includ-
ing Germany, Japan, and Korea, to
study issues such as trade and security.
Our programming has included hun-
dreds of current Members, former
Members, senior congressional staff,
and district directors. Most recently,
we expanded our group of constituents
to also include communications direc-
tors of congressional offices. They
work with us because they know we are
completely bipartisan, 100 percent non-
advocacy, and that we seek to tell the
positive story of our extraordinary rep-
resentative democracy. Allow me to
share with you some highlights of our
work.
You will hear more detail about our
Congressional Study Groups in a sec-
ond, but for 2018, we are proudest of the
incredible level of activity and impact
of our newest Study Group: the Con-
gressional Study Group on Korea. It
shows how timely and right from the
headlines our work is.
We launched the Korea program in
February of 2018 and have since sent, to
Korea, several current Member, former
Member, and congressional staff dele-
gations under the study group’s um-
brella. The Korea program now joins
our other longstanding international
projects: the Congressional Study
Group on Germany, the Congressional
Study Group on Japan, and the Con-
gressional Study Group on Europe.
In addition to a great many Capitol
Hill events, over the past 12 months,
we have sent numerous congressional
delegations overseas, some for current
Members, others for chiefs of staff, and
a number for district directors, and
just last month, our very first commu-
nications directors delegation—all bi-
partisan.
The purpose of these trips is to edu-
cate our participants on specific issues
affecting U.S. international relations—
mostly trade and security questions.
An important side effect is the oppor-
tunity of building across-the-aisle rela-
tionships and to create a network of
peers that transcends party labels and
partisanship. All of these trips, of
course, go through the rigorous process
of ethics review, and we ensure 100 per-
cent compliance with all regulations
governing travel by Members or staff.
These international projects are just
one component of our work to create
bipartisan relationships and strengthen
our representative democracy. Domes-
tically, the main focus of our work is
reconnecting citizens with their gov-
ernment, highlighting the responsibil-
ities of citizenship and dispelling many
of the myths that are out there when it
comes to Congress.
First and foremost, we are incredibly
proud of our Congress to Campus pro-
gram. For over 30 years, we have sent a
bipartisan team of former Members to
meet with university audiences across
the country. These are not simple
meet-and-greet events where the Mem-
bers drop in for a quick speech with
some Q&A. Instead, these visits are a 3-
day commitment by our former Mem-
bers team so that the university can
make the best possible use of FMC as a
resource.
We now average about 30 visits dur-
ing the academic year, which is incred-
ible, given that, as recently as 15 years
ago, we averaged about 5. Also, many
of our Congress to Campus visits now
include a visit to a local high school or
even a middle school, so that we are
reaching an even broader audience with
our FMC team. Sharon Witiw of our
staff, who runs this program, is to
thank for this great expansion.
We work hand in glove with each uni-
versity so that each visit is tailored
specifically to the school’s needs and
curriculum. Our colleagues walk into
different classroom settings through-
out the day, sometimes engaging in
discussions about U.S. foreign policy,
at other times focusing on questions
such as money in politics.
The outcome of each Congress to
Campus visit is twofold: to showcase a
partisan, yet respectful debate on the
issues of the day; and to encourage in
the next generation a respect for public
service that may translate into future
work on Capitol Hill.
We have reached thousands upon
thousands of students, and through our
own polling can demonstrate that we
are making a positive difference when
it comes to attitudes about Congress
and about elected officials. You will
hear more about this and our other
civic education initiatives when I yield
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.006 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3735
May 14, 2019
the floor for that report in just a little
bit.
Our work to reconnect citizens with
their government takes many different
forms. For example, we have a long-
standing partnership with the National
Archives, bringing former Members and
other issue experts together with the
public for a conversation about issues
affecting all of us. Our next National
Archives panel will be on June 13 for a
conversation about female candidates
for office and the extra challenges
women face in the political world.
What I have described thus far is just
a small part of the work we have done
on our membership’s behalf. And while
programs such as Congress to Campus
or the Congressional Study Group on
Germany are longstanding under-
takings that we have offered to the
public for decades, they, along with our
existing projects, all were infused with
a new energy, vision, and enthusiasm
thanks to the extensive strategic plan-
ning process that we briefed you on for
the past 2 years.
Let me again thank Mark Sobol, who
is here today, a highly respected expert
in the field of strategic planning and
organization management, who do-
nated to us completely free of charge
his tremendous expertise to help FMC
achieve the next level of profes-
sionalism and impact. He helped us
craft an extremely thoughtful and vi-
sionary strategic plan, which the FMC
board approved a little over 2 years
ago.
Since then, the effect of this incred-
ibly important exercise can be felt in
all aspects of the organization. We—
our board of directors and the excep-
tional FMC staff—have made great
strides in implementing this plan, for
example, when it comes to branding
FMC as a unique authority on Con-
gress, unparalleled in our expertise and
experience.
We now have a much more focused
media strategy, have unified our cur-
rent Member programming with our
former Member programming under
one logo and one recognizable brand,
and are much better at pushing out our
message of bipartisanship using social
media, for example. Paul Kincaid is re-
sponsible for our message, and I thank
him for his good work.
Over the summer, our staff put to-
gether an outstanding board of direc-
tors retreat, where we came together
to refine and review the strategic plan
and brainstorm about best ways to con-
tinue to implement.
One idea that stemmed from the
board retreat was the notion that
FMC’s board and staff could benefit
from additional voices and creative
input, beyond just former Members of
Congress. FMC, therefore, created an
Advisory Board comprised of valued
members of our Study Groups’ Busi-
ness Advisory Council. The inaugural
group of Advisory Board members are:
Majida Mourad of Tellurian, Nancy
Ziuzin Schlegel of Lockheed, Anna
Schneider of Volkwagen, and Dr. David
Steel of Samsung. To round out this
group, we were pleased that our long-
time consultant and friend Mark Sobol
of Longwave Partners accepted FMC’s
invitation as well.
The Advisory Board, committed to
bipartisanship and meaningful con-
versation and dialogue, will provide
FMC with a unique perspective on the
critical issues of the day and sugges-
tions on how we engage our member-
ship and partners to strengthen and
streamline our mission. We thank each
of these great friends of FMC for their
commitment to our mission.
I am also more than pleased to report
to you that a brand-new website show-
casing our new logo and look has gone
live since the last report to Congress.
This has been a major focus of my
predecessor, Cliff Stearns of Florida,
who kept asking: When is the logo
going to be up? When is the website
going to be up? And he finally got his
answer during his 2 years as FMC’s
president. I am thrilled that all of his
hard work came to fruition with the
new website, which reflects much more
accurately the vibrant and impactful
organization we have become.
Thank you, Cliff, for your leadership
on this, and congratulations to our
staff member Alia Diamond, who did
such a tremendous job creating our
new website.
As I look at FMC’s future, some very
exciting new initiatives stand out. We
are using our Congress to Campus
model to include a greater outreach
into the community. We call this new
initiative our Insight into Congress
project. We took the idea for a test run
just last week in Austin, Texas, with
Gene Green, who is here today.
Two former Members, Gene Green
and Randy Neugebauer, went to Austin
not to meet with a single university,
but different aspects of the whole com-
munity. This included several events
hosted by Samsung with their local
workforce and executives, as well as
high schools, the chamber of com-
merce, and others. We think this could
be a really interesting expansion of the
work we already do under Congress to
Campus.
Also, late last year, we implemented,
for a second time, a new project as part
of our American Democracy and Civics
programs. We brought together a bipar-
tisan group of four current Members,
two Democrats and two Republicans,
hosted in his Boston district by JOE
KENNEDY, and put a program together
for the four of them to meet with sev-
eral high schools, universities, and
public forums. Again, this is an excit-
ing expansion of the type of work we
do, we already do well via Congress to
Campus, and I congratulate the staff
on building on our obvious strengths.
Last year, we reported to you on the
commencement of the Legacy program,
which was conceived to interview retir-
ing Members of Congress so that, under
the FMC umbrella, we can create an
oral history of all those who have
served in the House and the Senate.
It is interesting: No one else was
doing this on a comprehensive basis,
not the Library of Congress, not the
Historian’s Office. This is something I
think will have a lasting impact. And
once these oral histories have been
transcribed and analyzed, we are do-
nating them to the Library of Con-
gress, where they will be available for
review.
I am pleased to report that we have
already surpassed our initial goal of 30
completed interviews and we are now
moving forward with analyzing the
data we have collected, as well as ex-
panding our interview outreach.
We started with the people, some of
whom are in this room, who left at the
end of the last Congress. I, along with
five other Members, last week had the
honor of testifying before the House
Select Committee on the Moderniza-
tion of Congress. When completed, we
hope to present our findings of the Leg-
acy Project to the committee later this
year.
I thank Mark Sobol and Lenny
Steinhorn for being the driving force
behind this project, ably staffed by
FMC’s Patricia Ochs.
In addition, we continue to find op-
portunities for former Members to
travel—I know Members like to travel,
both current and former—and be am-
bassadors on behalf of our representa-
tive democracy.
Just last week, we dispatched a dele-
gation of former Senators to China.
This is the 11th delegation over the
past 6 years that we have sent to Bei-
jing and other Chinese cities so that we
can play a small role in fostering a bet-
ter dialogue involving the United
States and China. These trips have
been made possible thanks to two great
partners, the China-U.S. Exchange
Foundation and the Chinese Associa-
tion for International Friendly Con-
tact.
The impact of these former Member
delegations is enhanced by Capitol Hill
programming, which we have been able
to offer in partnership with the Com-
mittee of 100, a U.S. nonprofit made up
of the foremost Americans of Chinese
descent.
Later this year, we also will send an-
other former Member delegation to
Korea. This group will be hosted by
Jay Kim, a former Member from Cali-
fornia and head of the Jay Kim Foun-
dation. Jay’s wife, Jennifer Ahn, has
been instrumental in putting this trip
together.
Our other host is the Korea Peace
Sharing Foundation. I wish to pay spe-
cial tribute to the head of that wonder-
ful organization, Reverend Kang Suk
So, a senior pastor of Sae Eden Pres-
byterian Church in Seoul. Reverend So
has made it his mission to bring peace
to the Korean Peninsula.
One of the many ways he seeks to ac-
complish that lofty goal is by bringing
veterans of the Korean war back to
Korea for remembrance, tribute, and
recognition. He has tirelessly invested
his energy, focus, and fundraising suc-
cess in making it possible for countless
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.008 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3736 May 14, 2019
Korean war veterans to return to Korea
and witness for themselves the new
Korea that they made possible via
their sacrifice.
Reverend So is now engaging in a
cross-cultural dialogue and is making
former Members of Congress part of
that important undertaking.
Thanks to him and the congregation
of the Sae Eden Presbyterian Church,
we are able to send former Members of
Congress to Korea to better understand
its culture and rich history. His leader-
ship is truly inspirational.
As Members can see, the future for
FMC is incredibly bright. We are ener-
gized, and we are having tremendous
success for three reasons.
One I already mentioned, which is
the outstanding work our board and
staff have done to solidify our mission
plan, put in achievable goals, and
strategize how best to move FMC for-
ward.
The second reason is our amazing
group of partners. These are corpora-
tions that donate to us, especially via
the Statesmanship Awards Dinner, be-
cause they believe in our purpose and
recognize the positive impact we are
having. These partners also include
outstanding grant-giving entities: the
Sasakawa Peace Foundation, the Ger-
man Marshall Fund, the Hewlett Foun-
dation Madison Initiative, the Democ-
racy Fund, the Korea Society and the
Korea Foundation, and the Japan-U.S.
Friendship Commission, to name just a
few. They believe in our capabilities
and are giving us the opportunity to
grow and create long-lasting program-
ming. We appreciate them very much.
The third and most important reason
is my fellow former Members of Con-
gress, who donate to us their time,
their expertise, their wisdom, and their
leadership. As I said earlier, the 7,000
hours of combined former Member time
has been donated to us pro bono by our
membership. I thank them for that.
I have to warn former Members, our
demand for their time and goodwill is
only increasing. As we all know, there
are many challenges our Nation faces,
and FMC can play a pivotal role in
bringing people together. This Nation’s
strength has always been found in its
ability to unite and move the country
forward for the greater good.
FMC, like no other organization, can
build bridges between Democrats and
Republicans, build bridges between
those being represented and those
doing the representing, and build
bridges between one generation of pub-
lic servants and the next. To do so will
require more and more commitment to
our work, and I am sure former Mem-
bers of Congress will rise to the occa-
sion.
In anticipation of former Members’
support, I thank them from the bottom
of my heart.
I want to interject one thing, and I
am not the only one who fits in this
category. A number of us have former
staff members who now sit in Congress.
My former field representative, MARC
VEASEY, is a Congressman from the
Dallas-Fort Worth area today. I know
other former Members have provided
the exact same mentorship to people
on their staff and people whom they
knew in their community, and I thank
them for that.
As Members have heard, this is
FMC’s 49th report to Congress, which
means that, next year, we will cele-
brate our 50th anniversary. This is a
tremendous achievement for a small
nonprofit that was originally conceived
as purely an alumni group with the oc-
casional social gathering.
We have come a long way, and it is
thanks to the volunteerism of the
membership that we can look forward
to celebrating 50 outstanding years.
Before getting to the business of
electing our new board members, I do
want to recognize two of my colleagues
to give just a little bit more detail
about our domestic and international
governing.
I first invite Jim Coyne from Penn-
sylvania to focus on FMC’s civic edu-
cation program. He will be followed by
FMC board member Phil Gingrey from
Georgia to speak about our inter-
national programs.
Mr. COYNE. I thank Martin for the
opportunity to make some remarks on
a topic that is incredibly important
and near and dear to my heart: our Na-
tion’s woeful attitude toward civic edu-
cation.
In 10 States in the U.S., there is no
requirement to take a civic education
class in high school—none. Only nine
States require a full year of civic edu-
cation, while 31 States require only one
semester.
It is no surprise that, in 2017, it was
found that 35 percent of millennials
stated that they were losing faith in
American democracy. Just let that
sink in for a moment. Over one-third of
America’s next generation states that
they are losing faith in our Nation’s
representative democracy.
How can they support and appreciate
it if they don’t understand the back-
ground and importance of our system?
Civic learning can be the best vehicle
to have young people be active citizens
in adulthood.
FMC’s well-established civic pro-
grams, like Congress to Campus and
Congress to Community, continue to
grow to be a part of the civic learning
solution. Thanks to the great work of
Sharon White and Haley LaTourette of
the FMC staff, we are doing even more.
In the 2018–2019 academic school year,
FMC’s Congress to Campus program
has visited 25 schools, garnering the
participation of 36 former Members, six
of whom participated in two or more
visits and five of whom are newly re-
tired, together reaching thousands of
students.
This academic year, we visited 11 new
schools, most of which have heard
about the program’s success from other
schools. The word is clearly spreading.
The hosting administrators have
been stretching former Member en-
gagement beyond the typical political
studies departments to include classes
in business ethics, international rela-
tions, media and writing, feminism,
public policy, and many other more di-
verse curricula. Many Congress to
Campus visits include interviews with
students and local media, as well as
open public forums to reach the broad-
er community.
By analyzing surveys that the par-
ticipating students take before and
after their school’s Congress to Campus
visit, we have learned that not only
have 82 percent of the students’ atti-
tudes toward Congress improved—
maybe that is not too hard—because of
our Congress to Campus program, but
the program has left 75 percent of stu-
dents feeling more positive about
Democrats’ and Republicans’ ability to
work civilly and productively together.
Almost every school administrator
expresses interest in hosting another
Congress to Campus program after
they have experienced one themselves.
We continue to extend former Mem-
bers’ experience and wisdom to high
school and middle school students, par-
ticularly in the summer with the Envi-
sion program. This June and July, we
have 12 programs scheduled.
Though these speaking engagements
are early in the morning, we hope and
deeply appreciate if each former Mem-
ber here in the D.C. area will consider
donating a couple of hours of their val-
uable time to speak with these stu-
dents at this very spot on the House
floor.
We have been engaged in this pro-
gram for 3 years, and each year, the
students report that the highlight of
the week-long experience in D.C. is
hearing from the former Members
about their experiences in Congress.
Former Members are having a huge
impact and are making a positive dif-
ference, and I guarantee that they will
find their meetings with these students
to be the highlight of their week. Shar-
on and Haley will reach out to former
Members to see if we can sign you up
for a visit with these middle school
kids here in the House Chamber.
In addition to these solidly estab-
lished in-person programs, Congress to
Campus is also expanding virtually.
This year, we have had three different
bipartisan pairs of former Members
speak to students as close as Boston
and as far away as Germany via Skype
and Zoom.
We are striving to expand our inter-
net reach to encompass more students
of all locations and backgrounds by
virtually connecting them with former
Members to answer their questions and
concerns about Congress, public serv-
ice, running for office, and much more.
This year’s FMC’s newly formed Con-
gressional Study Group on American
Democracy and Civics ran two effective
study tours, one to each of the co-
chairs’ districts.
The first trip was to Representative
RODNEY DAVIS’ district in southern Illi-
nois with Representative JIMMY PA-
NETTA from California. During the 48-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.010 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3737
May 14, 2019
hour trip, the Members spoke to hun-
dreds of high school students, commu-
nity college students, and civics teach-
ers within the region about the impor-
tance of building bipartisan relation-
ships and reaching across the aisle.
They were able to express to these au-
diences that having productive and re-
spectful relationships that cross the
political aisle is the only way to ac-
complish their important work in Con-
gress.
The second trip expanded in size to
include four Members of Congress. Rep-
resentative JOE KENNEDY hosted Rep-
resentative DAVIS, Representative
MARKWAYNE MULLIN, and Representa-
tive LISA BLUNT ROCHESTER in his Bos-
ton district. The delegation spoke to
hundreds of high school students and
had a public discussion at the Edward
M. Kennedy Institute for the Study of
the U.S. Senate.
The overarching theme that emerged
was that good laws come out of under-
standing that each Member represents
a different group of people, and the rea-
sons why certain issues are important
to that group may differ immensely
from another district’s issues.
The presenting Members could not
have come from more diverse districts,
from a liberal urban setting in New
England to a conservative rural dis-
trict in Oklahoma, from a red, blue,
and purple State to a wheat-belt State
that has both Republican and Demo-
crat constituents.
The delegation demonstrated what
we all know to be true of Congress:
Members can be respectful, civil, and
pragmatic while still advocating for
their districts, constituents, and be-
liefs.
The group reflected on what seems
lost in today’s society, that listening
and understanding a colleague’s posi-
tion helps everyone find common
ground.
The students responded positively,
treating the delegation like rock stars,
with raucous applause and waiting
after the presentation to ask more
questions or just grab a selfie.
The next study tour is planned for
early September to Representative
MARKWAYNE MULLIN’s district in Okla-
homa.
Our former Members are also helping
to strengthen civic education at the
State level. FMC has been working
with the CivXNow Coalition to connect
former Members of Congress with civic
learning communities and individual
States to improve and strengthen
State-level policies and practices in
civic education.
We began with Pennsylvania. Former
Member Jim Gerlach leads a bipartisan
group of eight Pennsylvania former
Members who are working with the
State Department of Education and
local civic education organizations to
update their civic curricula and re-
quirements.
We are now forming groups for
former Members to work together on
promoting and improving civic edu-
cation in the great States of Texas and
California. FMC hopes to add more
States this coming year. We hope ev-
eryone will consider helping.
This is our eighth year of continuing
a strong partnership with the National
Archives. Just before last November’s
midterm elections, we hosted a panel
discussion on ‘‘Voter Discontent Dur-
ing Wave Elections’’ with a bipartisan
panel of former Members who either
rode in or were swept out with a wave
during one of their elections. The dis-
cussion examined the impact of pre-
vious elections and Presidential elec-
tions on the competitiveness of a con-
gressional seat.
Mark your calendars for Thursday,
June 13, at 7 p.m., when we will hold
our next panel discussion to examine
the unique challenges that women face
when running for office.
This past year, we have continued
our outreach beyond the beltway to the
congressional family through engaging
dozens of district directors. Last sum-
mer, FMC connected with the district
directors that came to D.C. for their
fly-in retreat with a reception hosted
by one of our Diplomatic Advisory
Council members. Over 100 Republican
district directors learned more about
FMC at a reception at the home of the
Embassy of Germany’s DCM, and sev-
eral dozen Democratic district direc-
tors were hosted by the Ambassador of
Finland.
We continue to see the great value of
working with district directors. FMC
has also brought dozens of district di-
rectors on study tours, both domesti-
cally and internationally. Under mul-
tiple of FMC’s international Congres-
sional Study Groups, delegations of
district directors visited Germany,
Japan, and Korea. Through a grant
from the Democracy Fund, we were
able to bring delegations of district di-
rectors to Ireland to examine the chal-
lenges and impact that Brexit may
have and what lessons Brexit may hold
regarding NAFTA, as well as to Puerto
Rico to examine the devastation that
Hurricanes Maria and Irma have
caused the island.
Next week, we will bring a bipartisan
delegation of district directors from all
over the country to Nashville to better
understand America’s current state of
healthcare, with a particular focus on
the opioid crisis.
Later this summer, we will bring an-
other delegation of district directors to
Canada to take a closer look at our re-
lationship with our northern neighbor,
concentrating on new trade deals and
border issues.
In the fall, we are bringing together
all the district directors we have met
for a 2-day symposium to examine
more constituent issues and encourage
solutions that help their districts re-
gardless of parties.
None of this important work would
be possible without the support of out-
standing partners. We would like to
thank the Hewlett Foundation, the De-
mocracy Fund, the Stennis Center for
Public Service Leadership, the VF
Foundation, and the National Archives
for trusting in our work and empow-
ering us to truly make an impact
across the country. I thank you all.
Martin has asked me to yield some
time at this point to Phil Gingrey from
Georgia to share with the membership
an update on our international work. I
therefore thank Members for their at-
tention and now yield the floor to Mr.
Gingrey.
Mr. GINGREY. I thank Jim for yield-
ing some of his time. Primarily, I will
report on the Congressional Study
Groups program.
As a Member, I had the honor of co-
chairing the Congressional Study
Group on Germany for, I think, 4 years.
It was absolutely one of the highlights
of my 12 years in Congress.
Today, as we stand in this well, hun-
dreds of Members of Congress will shut-
tle back and forth from committee
hearings to constituent meetings to
the call time that we all loved so
much. For a small part of their day,
they will take in as much information
as they can on the issues they and
their committees are focused on.
All of us remember the days when we
served here, and information was
served 24 hours a day from a seemingly
endless firehose. For most of us, and
for most of them, that information did
not concern American foreign policy or
trade or our allies overseas.
Our colleague John Dingell once said
of his committee’s jurisdiction, ‘‘If it
moves, it’s commerce. If it doesn’t, it’s
energy.’’ Looking at the United States
today, we may still be made up of en-
ergy and commerce, but the impact,
and our knowledge of that impact, can-
not be limited to our own Nation. We
have become the keystone of a global
economy.
In 1983, our colleagues saw that
globalization was coming, and they re-
alized that a fire hydrant of informa-
tion was not going to include what was
happening with our allies, our adver-
saries, our trading partners, and devel-
oping nations, except for those few
Members who were on the Armed Serv-
ices Committee or the Foreign Affairs
Committee. Thus, the Congressional
Study Groups were born.
In the past year, we have continued
that mission through the continued
program impact of the Congressional
Study Groups on Germany, Japan, Eu-
rope, and, most recently, Korea.
Small, informal programs on Capitol
Hill and travel opportunities bring the
realities of these countries and our re-
lationships with them as Americans
into sharper focus. We also introduced
Members and staff to their peers over-
seas, and we create for current Mem-
bers and current congressional staff
the opportunity to network with each
other.
FMC understands that bipartisan co-
operation doesn’t just magically ap-
pear, and it doesn’t always begin at
work or in the committee rooms.
Often, it starts informally at dinner, at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.011 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3738 May 14, 2019
the ballpark, or on trips such as the
ones conducted by the Congressional
Study Groups.
Creating that bipartisanship is part
of our calling at FMC, and I am proud
to say that it is a goal we consistently
seek when planning events for the Con-
gressional Study Groups.
I would like to share a little bit
about what each of our Congressional
Study Groups has done this year and
what we will do in the coming months,
both to advance this mutual under-
standing and to advance toward FMC’s
strategic goals. Let me thank FMC’s
outstanding programming staff, led by
Lorraine Harbison, for their tremen-
dous work.
The first Congressional Study Group
founded was the Study Group on Ger-
many. This year marks the 35th anni-
versary of our Congress-Bundestag
Seminar, which alternates between
bringing the German Bundestag mem-
bers to the United States and then tak-
ing U.S. Members of Congress to Ger-
many.
In election years, Bundestag mem-
bers traditionally travel to the U.S.,
and this year was no different. An en-
gaging, diverse group of German legis-
lators from several different political
parties joined FMC in Washington,
D.C., for a day before trekking off to
Nashville and Chattanooga, where they
toured Volkswagen’s plant, which has
become a huge part of that community.
They met with cultural and edu-
cational leaders and got an oppor-
tunity to see the Tennessee Senate and
Governor’s race in full swing just as
early voting began in the Volunteer
State.
The Study Group on Germany also
welcomed a new co-chair this year in
the House as Congresswoman SUSAN
BROOKS from Indiana joined Congress-
man TED DEUTCH from Florida as co-
chairs. Both co-chairs welcomed Am-
bassador Emily Haber at a dinner for
Members of Congress following her ap-
pointment as Ambassador to the
United States from Germany.
Our congressional staff engagement
continues to grow, with a number of
roundtables on the Hill and continued
involvement of chiefs of staff and dis-
trict directors in our study tours to
Germany.
This year, the Congressional Study
Groups also received funding from the
German Federal Ministry of Economics
and Energy to organize a new study
tour aimed at bringing nearly a dozen
communications directors, chosen on a
bipartisan basis, to Germany for sub-
stantive exchanges on issues relating
to the transatlantic relationship.
As with the district director pro-
gramming made possible by this grant,
engaging communications directors
has allowed us to tap into a previously
underserved and impressionable group
of congressional staff. This year’s two
study tours saw FMC and the study
groups bring 16 individuals on their
first-ever visit to Germany. In this
group, we see tremendous potential to
create new advocates both for the Ger-
man-American partnership and for the
efforts undertaken by the Congres-
sional Study Group on Germany.
Further communications director
and district director study tours will
take place in 2020. We look forward to
engaging with this new group of con-
gressional staffers next year and to
continuing the excellence in program-
ming for which our FMC study tours
are known. Patrick Egenhofer of the
FMC team does just an outstanding job
running the Congressional Study
Group on Germany.
The congressional study tour to
Japan for Members is always the high-
light of the Congressional Study Group
on Japan’s year. This year was no dif-
ferent, as study group co-chairs BILLY
LONG and DIANA DEGETTE accompanied
six of their colleagues to Tokyo where
they met with Prime Minister Abe and
then to the Tohoku region—I hope I
pronounced that correctly—which was
so badly damaged by the 2011 earth-
quake and the subsequent tsunami.
Members of Congress had the oppor-
tunity to view the Fukushima power
plant and to see the exclusionary zone
around the facility, where some resi-
dents have actually returned but which
most have abandoned.
A similar agenda was created for
chiefs of staff, as well as our first dis-
trict director trip for the Study Group
on Japan, bringing directors from
across the Nation on a bipartisan basis.
The trip continued the district director
outreach that has now spread to three
of our congressional study groups.
The similar agenda allowed us to see
our meeting partners from the perspec-
tives of three different parts of our
congressional family—Members, senior
D.C. staff, and district staff—to engage,
and for former Members of Congress to
create a ‘‘deep dive’’ to really grow a
full understanding of the governmental
and civil society roles played both in
Tokyo and in the recovering area of
Tohoku.
Domestically, Japanese Government
officials and our Japanese Business Ad-
visory Council were very interested in
the 2018 mid-term elections, and, as a
result, FMC provided several opportu-
nities for both groups to meet with
both current and former Members of
Congress and staffers before and after
the election, learning more about the
critical issues and expectations going
into the election and the likely
changes that would take place in a
Democratic-led House following the
election.
The Congressional Study Group also
welcomed a new Ambassador from
Japan to the United States this year.
After several years of outstanding co-
operation between the Embassy under
Ambassador Kenichiro Sasae, he elect-
ed to retire and was succeeded by His
Excellency Shinsuke Sugiyama. The
Study Group on Japan was able to host
a dinner for the new Ambassador at his
residence in Washington, allowing
Members of Congress to learn more
about the important issues sur-
rounding the U.S.-Japan alliance.
The Study Group on Japan also con-
tinued one of the best-received pro-
grams we have created recently, with
our Chief of Staff Colloquium. This
weekend retreat for congressional
chiefs of staff allows for a ‘‘deep dive’’
into issues concerning the United
States, Japan, and the entire Indo-Pa-
cific region.
More than 20 experts in Asian issues
conducted discussion sessions for ten
chiefs of staff at the retreat held in
Baltimore, Maryland. Baltimore’s
proximity allows chiefs who live in
Washington to ‘‘get away’’ from the
hustle and bustle of Capitol Hill, while
remaining close enough to not feel out
of touch. This provides an excellent
learning experience for the staffers, as
well as a great opportunity for FMC to
engage with congressional staff who
may be interested in our Study tours.
For years now, we have benefited
greatly from the expertise and profes-
sionalism of FMC staffer Alexis Ayano
Terai for all things Japan related. We
will miss her greatly when she starts
her full-time studies at Georgetown to
earn her master’s degree.
The Congressional Study Group on
Europe was active this year as well,
primarily focusing on events here in
Washington, D.C. The European Study
Group has been heavily focused, re-
cently, on district director program-
ming, encouraging these critical senior
congressional staff to become more en-
gaged in the transatlantic relationship.
This year, Ambassador Kirsti Kauppi of
Finland was kind enough to welcome
dozens of Democratic district directors
to the Finnish Embassy for a reception
and a discussion on Finland, Scan-
dinavia, and the role Northern Europe
plays in both NATO and in our trading
relationships. We expect to continue
this relationship between FMC, our dis-
trict directors, and European embas-
sies this year and far into the future.
Europe was also exceptionally inter-
ested in the 2018 elections in the United
States, and FMC worked with the
Swiss Embassy to create an oppor-
tunity to hear from former Members,
including President Martin Frost and
Vice President Charles Boustany, re-
garding the results of the November
elections here in the United States.
This discussion session was heavily at-
tended and allowed our friends from
Europe to better understand what a di-
vided legislative branch meant for the
116th Congress and what 2020 could po-
tentially mean for the United States
and its relationship with Europe.
Finally, our Congressional Study
Group on Korea completed its first full
year of activities and was a constant
source of pride for FMC. After only
having a small delegation of Members
of Congress travel to Seoul last year,
this year’s group was larger and was
complemented by a district director
study tour, which recently returned
from the Republic of Korea, in addition
to a former Members delegation that
traveled in February.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.013 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3739
May 14, 2019
We also hope, later this year, to
bring a chief of staff delegation to the
peninsula. Members of Congress were
able to meet with key government offi-
cials, reporters, and business leaders
and, traveling to the Demilitarized
Zone between the Republic of Korea
and North Korea, were able to learn
more about American defense standing
in the region from our own military
leaders. Each of the delegations also
met with local college students in
Korea, allowing a candid discussion on
both domestic and transpacific issues
that are important to the next genera-
tion of Koreans.
The Study Group on Korea was also
active on Capitol Hill. As we welcomed
both our new Senate co-chairs, Senator
BRIAN SCHATZ of Hawaii and Senator
DAN SULLIVAN of Alaska, Ambassador
Cho Yoon-je, the Ambassador from
South Korea to the United States,
hosted a dinner in their honor, along
with several of their House and Senate
colleagues, to discuss important U.S.-
Korean issues, particularly focused on
trade, energy, and defense.
As well, the Study Group on Korea
welcomed several governmental and
business leaders to Capitol Hill for in-
formal, organic roundtables with Mem-
bers of Congress and their staff to bet-
ter create an understanding of this
critical alliance and relationship, par-
ticularly among Members focused on
trade with Korea in their districts who
are not able to address these issues
through their committee assignments.
Thanks to the efforts of the Congres-
sional Study Group on Korea, the
South Korean National Assembly, our
counterparts in Seoul, will be mir-
roring our efforts, as they create the
Parliamentary Study Group on Amer-
ica. We wish them luck in that endeav-
or and look forward to working with
our friends in Seoul to further the
U.S.-Korean alliance. And we very
much appreciate all the hard and good
work of FMC staffer Dongwon Kim as
he implements Korea-focused program-
ming.
The Congressional Study Groups con-
tinue to work on better ways to com-
municate with our stakeholders, add-
ing conference calls on important
issues, featuring our frequent meeting
partners, that allow Members of Con-
gress, their staff, the business commu-
nity, our supporters, and the diplo-
matic community to participate in
Study Group programming without
having to leave their office.
All of this great work being done by
the Congressional Study Groups could
not continue without the support of
the members of our Business Advisory
Council, BAC, and the institutional
funding partners that we have. With
that in mind, it is important that we
thank Ambassador Jim Zumwalt and
Ms. Junko Chano at Sasakawa Peace
Foundation, Ms. Paige Cottingham-
Streater at the Japan-U.S. Friendship
Commission, Dr. Karen Donfried at the
German Marshall Fund, Ms. Minjeong
Kim and Mr. Kiho Jang at the Korea
Foundation, and Ambassador Thomas
Byrne at the Korea Society.
The members of our BAC who are so
committed to the transoceanic rela-
tionships fostered by the Congressional
Study Groups include Hyundai,
Samsung, KITA, POSCO, CJ, SK, Gale
International, Michelin, Tellurian,
Allianz, BASF, Bayer, B. Braun Med-
ical, Daimler, Deutsche Telekom, DHL,
Evonik Corporation, Fresenius Medical
Care North America, Fresenius SE,
Lufthansa German Airlines,
RatnerPrestia, Representative of Ger-
man Industry and Trade, Volkswagen
Group of America, Aflac, ANA, Honda,
Itochu, Japan Bank for International
Cooperation, JR Central, Hitachi,
Lockheed Martin, Marubeni,
Mitsubishi Corporation, Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries, Mitsui, Mizuho,
MUFG, NEC, Nissan, Nomura,
Panasonic, Sojitz, Takeda Pharma-
ceuticals, and Toyota. We are deeply
grateful to all of these organizations
for their support of our work.
As with the rest of FMC, the future
of the Congressional Study Group is
strong and vibrant. I look forward to
watching the incredible programming
and travel opportunities that they pro-
vide to continue FMC’s goal to truly
create an effective, nonpartisan avenue
for effective legislative and knowledge
exchange between the congressional
family and our friends and allies
abroad.
I appreciate the opportunity to make
these remarks. It is my understanding
that we have some membership busi-
ness to accomplish, and I, therefore,
yield to FMC’s president, Representa-
tive Martin Frost of Texas.
Mr. FROST. Thank you, Jim and
Phil, for your reports and for your out-
standing leadership of these important
FMC programs.
I would note for the Record that,
since we called the roll, several people
have come into the room. I notice Bar-
bara Kennelly, former president of our
organization—I don’t know if she was
here when the roll was called—Blanche
Lincoln, a former Member of the House
and a former Member of the Senate
from Arkansas; John Tanner from Ten-
nessee; and, also, Jim Jones, a former
Congressman and a former Ambas-
sador.
I also would like to recognize several
representatives of the Congressional
Federal Credit Union, and I thank
them for their many years of partner-
ship and support.
Normally, at this juncture in our re-
port, I would highlight each FMC staff
member, briefly describe their areas of
responsibility, and add a personal note
since I have worked so closely with
each of them over the past several
years. I cannot do so this year simply
because our team has grown so much.
We are now up to 12 FMC staff mem-
bers, so there is just not enough time
anymore to recognize each individ-
ually.
However, I do want to highlight two
names. First, our CEO, Pete Weichlein.
As you may know, he has been with
FMC in various positions since Feb-
ruary 1, 1999, which means that, earlier
this year, he celebrated his 20th anni-
versary with us. Pete is brimming full
of ideas. He is energetic and he is
thoughtful. My job as President is to
point out the one or two of his ideas
that may not be quite as good as the
others. He really does an extraordinary
job for us, and I want to thank him.
The other staff member I want to sa-
lute is our COO, Sabine Schleidt. She
joined FMC over 8 years ago and has
been the driving force behind so much
of our tremendous growth and success.
Now, I know Sabine was here. She
must be working on the next piece of
our business, the next event.
Sabine is extraordinary, for those of
you who haven’t worked with her. She
oversees all of our international pro-
grams, and she also—which I know
L.F., as one of our dinner chairs, was
grateful, and I, as president, was grate-
ful—raises a lot of money for us. She is
really very good, and we are very fortu-
nate to have her.
At this point, let me also recognize a
representative of the Canadian Asso-
ciation of Former Parliamentarians.
As you know, our closest working rela-
tionships are with our colleagues in Ot-
tawa and our colleagues in Brussels.
We have enjoyed, over the years,
many joint projects, such as election
monitoring. The Canadian Association
is a wonderful partner and resource to
us, and we are thrilled that one of its
board members, Eleni Bakopanos from
Quebec, is with us here this morning
and throughout the day.
Thank you so much for joining us.
By the way, she is from Montreal,
and if any of you need to know the best
Greek restaurants in Montreal, you
should check with her before you go.
As a personal note, several years ago,
our organization sponsored a joint mis-
sion, a joint visit to the Normandy
Battlefield with former Members of the
Canadian Parliament. It was an ex-
traordinary trip. Not only did we visit
our battlefield sites, but also the Cana-
dians, both from World War I and
World War II.
Canada, per capita, lost an extraor-
dinary number of soldiers during those
two wars. We will be forever grateful
for their partnership then and their
partnership now.
I thank you so much for joining us. I
hope you enjoy the rest of the program.
This is a friendly group. I am sure they
will come up and visit with you.
Every year at our annual meeting,
we ask the membership to elect new of-
ficers and board members. I, therefore,
will now read to you the names of the
candidates for board members and offi-
cers. They are all running unopposed,
and I, therefore, ask for a simple ‘‘yea’’
or ‘‘nay’’ as I present to you the list of
candidates as a slate.
For the Association’s Board of Direc-
tors Class of 2019, the candidates are:
Ann Marie Buerkle of New York,
Bob Clement of Tennessee,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.014 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3740 May 14, 2019
Donna Edwards of Maryland,
Phil Gingrey of Georgia,
Tim Hutchinson of Arkansas,
L.F. Payne of Virginia,
Tim Petri of Wisconsin, and
Nick Rahall of West Virginia.
Some of these are repeat board mem-
bers. They have served previously. We
are glad that they will continue to
serve.
All in favor of electing these seven
former Members to FMC’s board of di-
rectors, please say ‘‘yea.’’
Not hearing any ‘‘nays’’ they are
elected.
Next, we will elect our Executive
Committee. Charles Boustany serves as
our vice president. He and I were elect-
ed last year to a 2-year term, and we,
therefore, are not up for reelection.
Cliff Stearns automatically remains
on the Executive Committee in his ca-
pacity as immediate past president.
The secretary and treasurer are each
elected to a 1-year term, with eligi-
bility for another 1-year term. The can-
didates are:
Ann Marie Buerkle of New York for
treasurer, and
L.F. Payne of Virginia for secretary.
All in favor of electing these two
former Members to FMC’s Executive
Committee, please say ‘‘yea.’’
Any opposed?
Hearing no opposition, the slate has
been elected by the membership.
I thank you all for volunteering to
serve on our board, and I very much
look forward to working with you
again over the next year.
It is now my sad duty to inform the
Congress of those former and current
Members who have passed away since
our last report.
As you know, FMC has commenced a
beautiful tradition, which is to recog-
nize via a separate memorial service in
Statuary Hall all those of our col-
leagues who have passed away in the
previous 12 months. It is a truly won-
derful and fitting tribute to which we
invite the families of these Members,
and I hope you will join us in Sep-
tember as we do so again this year.
I would note that we have patterned
this after a very similar service con-
ducted by the Canadian Parliament. I
had the privilege of representing this
organization at the annual meeting of
the former Members of the Canadian
Parliament and got to see this cere-
mony firsthand, and thank you for
that, too.
It is a truly wonderful and fitting
tribute to which we invite the families
of these Members, and I hope you will
join us in September as we do so again
this year.
We also want to pay tribute to these
Members by making sure their names
are read here in the House Chamber
and they are included in today’s CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD. I, therefore, will
now read the names, and I ask all of
you, including the visitors in the gal-
lery, to rise as I read their names. At
the end of the list, we will pay our re-
spect to their memory with a moment
of silence.
Thank you.
We honor these Members for their
service to our country. They are:
Birch Evans Bayh of Indiana
Leonard Boswell of Iowa
Bill Broomfield of Michigan
George H.W. Bush of Texas, a former
Member of the House of Representa-
tives
Michael ‘‘Mac’’ Collins of Georgia
Ronald Dellums of California
John Dingell, Jr. of Michigan
Ralph Hall of Texas
James Hansen of Utah
Margaret Heckler of Massachusetts
Ernest ‘‘Fritz’’ Hollings of South
Carolina
Walter ‘‘Dee’’ Huddleston of Ken-
tucky
Walter B. Jones, Jr. of North Caro-
lina
Paul Laxalt of Nevada
Marilyn Lloyd of Tennessee
Richard Lugar of Indiana
John McCain of Arizona
Guy Molinari of New York
Jim Moody of Wisconsin
Dick Nichols of Kansas
Ed Pastor of Arizona
Elizabeth Patterson of South Caro-
lina
Ellen Tauscher of California
Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania.
Please observe a moment of silence.
Thank you.
I notice in reading this list that I
served with a number of these Mem-
bers, as did, I think, most of the people
in this room. I hope you will join us in
September when we officially mark
this occasion.
Thank you. That concludes the 49th
Report to Congress by the Former
Members of Congress. On behalf of
FMC, I wish to thank the Speaker and
minority leader for giving us the op-
portunity to return to this very special
place and report on FMC’s activities.
I also wish to share with you how in-
credibly honored I am to be serving as
the president of this outstanding orga-
nization. We do wonderful work, and
our membership’s commitment is a tes-
tament to how dear you all hold this
institution.
I would mention, and I think you
have all gotten a copy of this, that we
have a program for most of this day. I
hope that many of you will attend
these events.
We have a reception in the Rayburn
House Office Building starting at 9:30
and then a program about space policy,
50 years after Apollo 11, also in the
Rayburn Building. Then we adjourn to
the National Archives, and our col-
league, Jim Blanchard, is chairman of
the board of the National Archives. We
appreciate everything you are doing to
help us.
Mr. DIOGUARDI. I am former Con-
gressman Joe DioGuardi. I would like
to introduce, in the spirit of biparti-
sanship and emerging democracies,
guests from Southeast Europe. If you
don’t mind, I would like to welcome
them.
From Albania, we have Monika
Kryemadhi. She is the first female to
run a political party in Albania. She is
joined here by her chairperson for the
Foreign Policy Committee of that
group, Klajda Gjosha, and the chief of
staff, Eriol Braimllari.
We also have Faton Bislimi, a Har-
vard graduate. He is from Kosovo.
We have from Presevo, a part of
southern Serbia that has 100,000 Alba-
nians, we have the mayor of
Bujanovac, a majority Albanian city,
one of the three in Presevo, in southern
Serbia. We have Ragmi Mustafa and
Ardita Sinani.
I just wanted to be sure that they
know they are welcome. I know Shirley
and I have been pushing, because we
represent a nonprofit called the Alba-
nian American Civic League, an advo-
cacy group. We are volunteers; we
don’t get paid; but we are pushing for
an Albanian study group.
The Albanians are the least under-
stood people in Europe, Southeast Eu-
rope, and they were divided unfairly,
after World War I, into six different
countries to, clearly, politically keep
them weak.
By the way, the honoree today, we
know, Connie Morella. What you don’t
know and I found out through the
Former Members Association, like my
dad, she comes from a family that has
Albanian roots. My dad came here in
1929 speaking only two languages—he
was 15—Albanian and Italian. He comes
from the people who were driven out of
Albania in the 15th century by the
Ottoman Turks and occupying for 425
years until World War I. Connie’s fam-
ily spoke Albanian, her grandparents,
and so did mine.
Mr. FROST. And unlike many people
in this room, I have actually been to
Albania—it was an interesting experi-
ence—years and years ago, when I
chaired a special task force of the
House of Representatives to help the
parliaments of Eastern and Central Eu-
rope after the Berlin Wall opened.
And I believe we now turn this back
over to Cliff.
Sometimes we have leadership of
both parties that come and speaks to
us. I don’t know if they were planning
to come by today, but we are actually
ending a little bit early.
So if we miss them, we are sorry. We
had hoped that they would come by.
They have done it in the past.
Mr. STEARNS. Mr. President, thank
you, Martin.
I think, as you pointed out, we were
waiting for both the majority leader,
STENY HOYER of Maryland, and the mi-
nority leader, KEVIN MCCARTHY, be-
tween 8:45 and 9:00, and they might
have had different schedules/commit-
ments. So we will probably be here, in
effect, if they come by.
Mr. FROST. Next is our distin-
guished minority leader, KEVIN MCCAR-
THY from California.
Mr. MCCARTHY. It is an honor to be
with you. A lot of you I have admired
greatly. Some of you I have never got-
ten to meet. But part of the reason I
ran, I watched you in public service,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.016 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3741
May 14, 2019
and it is an amazing occupation, and
we should honor it every chance we
get.
There are days when we honor our de-
mocracy, so I am just going to tell you
a quick story. If any of you have time
and you want to come by my office—it
is no longer in the majority side, but it
is in the minority side over here. At
one time it was the Speaker’s office,
whom some of you served, so you can
find where it is.
In there I put paintings, and there is
a reason why each painting that I put
in there is from a different artist. I put
my favorite Presidents, Lincoln and
Reagan, and then I have the one of
‘‘Washington Crossing the Delaware.’’
And this is the story I will tell you
today.
When I look at the paintings, I al-
ways wonder what advice Lincoln
would tell us. If you think about it, he
was a Member of the House.
My favorite part whenever I give a
tour is to go to Statuary Hall, stand
right where Lincoln’s desk is, and have
my guests look back at the clock. I ask
them to tell me what time it is because
it is the exact same view and the exact
same clock that Abraham Lincoln
looked at. I am sure he did, and that is
an opportunity to have.
But what would Lincoln tell us
today? Lincoln would tell us to believe
in the exceptionalism of this country;
that we are different than any other
country before us. And the reason why
I believe that is, is the Gettysburg Ad-
dress.
You all know it. ‘‘Four score and
seven years ago our Fathers brought
forth on this continent a new Nation,
conceived in liberty, and dedicated to
the proposition that all men are cre-
ated equal.’’
There has never been another coun-
try like ours. Conceived in liberty and
dedicated to the proposition that we
are all equal. There is something about
democracy that that brings forth.
When you think about the world
today, Saudi Arabia just now allows
women the right to drive, and it makes
you think about where we have come
from.
But the painting that I want you to
look at, and some of you have served
with me and you have been in that
room, is ‘‘Washington Crossing the
Delaware.’’ You know of that painting.
You know that it hangs in New York,
but did you know the history of who
actually painted that picture? It
wasn’t even an American. His name
was Emanuel Leutze. He had lived in
America. He was an immigrant.
He lived here for a number of years
and went back to Germany, and paint-
ed a picture based upon the belief that
he wanted to inspire the Germans to
have a revolution because he believed
America was more than a country, that
America was an idea. And he wanted
the revolution in Germany to inspire
the idea of freedom and democracy.
So he doesn’t get it historically cor-
rect, but we don’t blame him, right?
The Delaware looks like the Rhine, but
he is German, so we live with that.
He puts 13 people in a row boat. Why
would he put 13? 13 colonies, right? But
he only shows you 12 faces.
He gets it historically incorrect, be-
cause people will tell you Washington
either crossed in a Durham boat or on
a barge, but he just makes it a row
boat. But he puts Washington in a cere-
monial uniform, standing up, crossing
the Delaware on Christmas, at night.
We think that probably is not true,
but when you look at Washington, you
would say, ‘‘I bet that man has never
lost a battle.’’ Well, history tells us he
had not won yet; that was our first vic-
tory when we surprised the Hessians,
right?
But what I want you to do when you
look at the picture, I want you to see
who is in the boat. And this is the
story of why democracy matters.
If you look at the second person, he
is wearing a beret; he is Scottish.
If you look at the person directly
across from him in the denim jacket,
he is African American.
You come down the boat to the mid-
section, in the red is a woman. And in
the very back, is a Native American.
I don’t know if they were in the boat
that night, but this young immigrant,
that is who he believed—having lived
in America—would have been in that
boat.
But the second to last person is a
farmer, and he has hand across his
face. It is the hand of the 13th person
nobody sees.
And what the young artist was say-
ing, Here we are as a young nation—
not even a nation yet, but an idea for
a nation—an idea that we can self-gov-
ern, an idea about democracy, that we
are willing to risk everything, having
never won before, and do it on our holi-
est of nights: Here is a hand. Would
you get in and join us?
I believe that is as true today as it
was then.
It is not guaranteed, you have to
earn it through each generation. And
the service that you have provided ac-
tually passed the torch to the next.
I came here in 2007. I admired an in-
dividual, Connie Morella, who I
watched stand up. She belonged to my
party. And the part that I looked at is,
I grew up in a family of Democrats, but
I was a Republican based upon belief.
And my belief was that an individual
can govern themselves.
And I watched Connie stand up not
only to things she disagreed with, but
to things even within her own party.
And she inspired people.
People would say she inspired a lot of
women; she also inspired me.
And the idea that after she left this
House she continued to work for de-
mocracy says a lot about who she is
and why she was elected in the first
place.
So it is an honor for me to be here
today to say thank you for your serv-
ice. And thank you, all of you, for what
you contributed to this country.
Mr. STEARNS. We thank the distin-
guished minority leader.
And with that, let me close by say-
ing, the Chair again, wishes to thank
the former Members of the House and
Senate for all of your presence today.
And before terminating these pro-
ceedings, the Chair would like to invite
those former Members who did not re-
spond when the roll call was called to
give their names to the reading clerk
for inclusion in the roll.
I think Tom McMillen came in. Is
there anyone else to add?
If not, the Association of Former
Members of Congress and the report to
Congress is closed.
The meeting stands adjourned.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. MCGOVERN) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving and gracious God, we give
You thanks for giving us another day.
Help us this day to draw closer to
You, so that with Your spirit and
aware of Your presence among us, we
may all face the tasks of this day.
Bless the Members of the people’s
House. Help them to think clearly,
speak confidently, and act coura-
geously in the belief that all noble
service is based upon patience, truth,
and love.
May all citizens, for their part, feel
empowered to encourage their Rep-
resentatives to use their best judgment
in considering how to address the many
needs of our Nation.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. BAIRD)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BAIRD led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
HISTORIC EMBASSY OPENING IN
JERUSALEM
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.018 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3742 May 14, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, on this day last year, I was
grateful to lead nine House colleagues
on a congressional delegation to Jeru-
salem for the opening of the U.S. Em-
bassy.
We had the opportunity to meet with
Members of the Knesset, the Israeli
Parliament, and to meet the Knesset
Foreign Affairs chairman, Avi Dichter.
It was an honor to be welcomed to
the office of Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu. We have a shared priority
to stop terrorism and anti-Semitism in
both of our countries and around the
world. I am confident in the leadership
of Israel and know they will do all they
can to protect and serve its citizens.
I am thankful for the strong commit-
ment shown to the American-Israeli al-
liance by President Donald Trump,
with promises made and promises kept.
Ambassador David Friedman enthu-
siastically coordinated the Embassy
movement, fulfilling a vote of Congress
in 1994 to relocate from Tel Aviv to the
capital of Jerusalem.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
HONORING MIKE PIGGOTT
(Mr. BAIRD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mike Piggott, who has be-
come virtually an institution for the
Lafayette community and Purdue Uni-
versity.
Mike has been an integral part of the
greater Lafayette area for more than 40
years. He serves numerous roles at
Purdue, including public address an-
nouncer for the men’s basketball team
and public orator for more than 100
commencement ceremonies.
Before working at Purdue, Mike was
general manager at WLFI, and he was
the television station’s news director
and news anchor for 14 years and news
director at WASK radio for 13 years.
Mike’s remarkable career focused on
communicating with neighbors,
friends, and alumni through sharing
stories, delivering the news, and rep-
resenting Purdue University.
His wife, Nancy, is a retired fourth
grade teacher at Glen Acres Elemen-
tary. Together, they have two daugh-
ters, Jane and Julie, both married and
living in the Indianapolis area, along
with five grandchildren.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Mike on
his retirement and thank him for his
dedication to our community.
f
CELEBRATING OUR INCREDIBLE
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCERS
(Mr. HAGEDORN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HAGEDORN. Mr. Speaker, last
week, the Communist Government of
Cuba announced that it is launching
widespread rationing of food due to the
grave economic crisis in their country.
Unlike citizens of Cuba, Venezuela,
North Korea, and countless other na-
tions, Americans know their grocery
store shelves will be filled every day
with an abundant supply of quality
products at affordable prices, and that
is thanks to the ingenuity and hard
work of America’s farmers and agri-
businesses.
For Americans who lack the means
to put food on the table, our taxpayers
generously provide hundreds of billions
of dollars for food stamps and other
welfare benefits. Private entities such
as churches and nonprofit food banks
rely on the voluntary generosity of
their members.
Yet it all starts with the supply of
food. We could have fistfuls of $100 bills
and EBT cards, but that wouldn’t mat-
ter if the grocery store shelves were
bare.
As Americans, we must always cele-
brate our system of free enterprise and
our incredible agricultural producers.
We are, indeed, the envy of the world.
f
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL POLICE
WEEK
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize National Police
Week.
Thousands of police officers from
around the country are in Washington,
D.C., this week, and I want to welcome
them with the recognition and appre-
ciation they deserve and that they
don’t always receive these days.
I thank the Capitol Police officers,
Officers David Bailey and Crystal
Griner, who saved many of my col-
leagues’ lives less than 2 years ago
when they took down an armed gun-
man at that baseball practice that we
so famously heard about.
I am very thankful for our officers
that we have in northern California,
many who have had to work around the
clock with some of the disasters we
have had in recent years with the dam
and the fires, who really helped make
an orderly situation out of a lot of
chaos.
Nationally, I hate to have to relate
these statistics, but 163 police officers
died in the line of duty last year, 52
from gunfire. Any number greater than
zero is unacceptable.
In California, we lost 11 officers in
2018. This year, we tragically lost 22-
year-old Davis Police Officer Natalie
Corona, one of the most heartbreaking
ones you might ever see. She was fol-
lowing in her father’s footsteps, who
was an officer for a long time in Colusa
County.
Indeed, these men and women know
it is a higher calling, a higher, 24-hour
duty that they answer to for all of our
safety. We appreciate them. We love
them, and let’s always be sure we re-
member to show them that.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, May 13, 2019.
The Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Dear MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, I have the honor to transmit a sealed
envelope received from the White House on
May 13, 2019, at 3:16 p.m., and said to contain
a message from the President regarding the
continuation of the national emergency with
respect to Yemen.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERY L. JOHNSON,
Clerk of the House.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
YEMEN—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–34)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13611 of May 16, 2012, with respect
to Yemen is to continue in effect be-
yond May 16, 2019.
The actions and policies of certain
former members of the Government of
Yemen and others continue to threaten
Yemen’s peace, security, and stability,
including by obstructing the political
process in Yemen and the implementa-
tion of the agreement of November 23,
2011, between the Government of
Yemen and those in opposition to it,
which provided for a peaceful transi-
tion of power that meets the legitimate
demands and aspirations of the Yemeni
people. For this reason, I have deter-
mined that it is necessary to continue
the national emergency declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 13611 with respect to
Yemen.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 13, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.020 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3743
May 14, 2019
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 3 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 10 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1500
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. ESPAILLAT) at 3 p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
BLUE WATER NAVY VIETNAM
VETERANS ACT OF 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and to insert extra-
neous material on H.R. 299, as amend-
ed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 299) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify presumptions
relating to the exposure of certain vet-
erans who served in the vicinity of the
Republic of Vietnam, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 299
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Blue Water
Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION OF PRESUMPTIONS OF
EXPOSURE FOR VETERANS WHO
SERVED IN VICINITY OF REPUBLIC
OF VIETNAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 11 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 1116 the following new section:
‘‘§ 1116A. Presumptions of service connection
for veterans who served offshore of the Re-
public of Vietnam
‘‘(a) SERVICE CONNECTION.—For the pur-
poses of section 1110 of this title, and subject
to section 1113 of this title, a disease covered
by section 1116 of this title becoming mani-
fest as specified in that section in a veteran
who, during active military, naval, or air
service, served offshore of the Republic of
Vietnam during the period beginning on Jan-
uary 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975, shall
be considered to have been incurred in or ag-
gravated by such service, notwithstanding
that there is no record of evidence of such
disease during the period of such service.
‘‘(b) EXPOSURE.—A veteran who, during ac-
tive military, naval, or air service, served
offshore of the Republic of Vietnam during
the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and
ending on May 7, 1975, shall be presumed to
have been exposed during such service to an
herbicide agent unless there is affirmative
evidence to establish that the veteran was
not exposed to any such agent during that
service.
‘‘(c) EFFECTIVE DATE OF AWARD.—(1) Ex-
cept as provided by paragraph (2), the effec-
tive date of an award under this section shall
be determined in accordance with section
5110 of this title.
‘‘(2)(A) Notwithstanding subsection (g) of
section 5110 of this title, the Secretary shall
determine the effective date of an award
based on a claim under this section for an in-
dividual described in subparagraph (B) by
treating the date on which the individual
filed the prior claim specified in clause (i) of
such subparagraph as the date on which the
individual filed the claim so awarded under
this section.
‘‘(B) An individual described in this sub-
paragraph is a veteran, or a survivor of a
veteran, who meets the following criteria:
‘‘(i) The veteran or survivor submitted a
claim for disability compensation on or after
September 25, 1985, and before January 1,
2020, for a disease covered by this section,
and the claim was denied by reason of the
claim not establishing that the disease was
incurred or aggravated by the service of the
veteran.
‘‘(ii) The veteran or survivor submits a
claim for disability compensation on or after
January 1, 2020, for the same condition cov-
ered by the prior claim under clause (i), and
the claim is approved pursuant to this sec-
tion.
‘‘(d) DETERMINATION OF OFFSHORE.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law, for
purposes of this section, the Secretary shall
treat a location as being offshore of Vietnam
if the location is not more than 12 nautical
miles seaward of a line commencing on the
southwestern demarcation line of the waters
of Vietnam and Cambodia and intersecting
the following points:
‘‘Points Geographic Names
Latitude
North
Longitude
East
At Hon Nhan Island, Tho Chu Archipelago Kien Giang Province 9°15.0′ 103°27.0′
At Hon Da Island southeast of Hon Khoai Island Minh Hai Province 8°22.8′ 104°52.4′
At Tai Lon Islet, Con Dao Islet in Con Dao-Vung Toa Special Sector 8°37.8′ 106°37.5′
At Bong Lai Islet, Con Dao Islet 8°38.9′ 106°40.3′
At Bay Canh Islet, Con Dao Islet 8°39.7′ 106°42.1′
At Hon Hai Islet (Phu Qui group of islands) Thuan Hai Province 9°58.0′ 109°5.0′
At Hon Doi Islet, Thuan Hai Province 12°39.0′ 109°28.0′
At Dai Lanh point, Phu Khanh Province 12°53.8′ 109°27.2′
At Ong Can Islet, Phu Khanh Province 13°54.0′ 109°21.0′
At Ly Son Islet, Nghia Binh Province 15°23.1′ 109° 9.0′
At Con Co Island, Binh Tri Thien Province 17°10.0′ 107°20.6′
‘‘(e) HERBICIDE AGENT.—In this section, the
term ‘herbicide agent’ has the meaning given
that term in section 1116(a)(3) of this title.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 1116 the following new item:
‘‘1116A. Presumptions of service connection
for veterans who served off-
shore of the Republic of Viet-
nam.’’.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) GUIDANCE.—Notwithstanding section 501
of such title, the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs may issue guidance to implement sec-
tion 1116A of title 38, United States Code, as
added by subsection (a), before prescribing
new regulations under such section.
(2) UPDATES.—(A) Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit a report to the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
garding the plans of the Secretary—
(i) to conduct outreach under subsection
(d); and
(ii) to respond to inquiries from veterans
regarding claims for disability compensation
under section 1116A of title 38, United States
Code, as added by subsection (a) of this sec-
tion.
(B) On a quarterly basis during the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act and ending on the date on which
regulations are prescribed to carry out such
section 1116A, the Secretary shall submit to
the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.024 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3744 May 14, 2019
House of Representatives and the Senate up-
dates on the status of such regulations.
(3) PENDING CASES.—
(A) AUTHORITY TO STAY.—The Secretary
may stay a claim described in subparagraph
(B) until the date on which the Secretary
commences the implementation of such sec-
tion 1116A.
(B) CLAIMS DESCRIBED.—A claim described
in this subparagraph is a claim for disability
compensation—
(i) relating to the service and diseases cov-
ered by such section 1116A; and
(ii) that is pending at the Veterans Bene-
fits Administration or the Board of Vet-
erans’ Appeals on or after the date of the en-
actment of this Act and before the date on
which the Secretary commences the imple-
mentation of such section 1116A.
(d) OUTREACH.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs shall conduct outreach to in-
form veterans described in paragraph (2) of
the ability to submit a claim for disability
compensation under section 1116A of title 38,
United States Code, as added by subsection
(a). Such outreach shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) The Secretary shall publish on the
website of the Department a notice that a
veterans described in paragraph (2) may sub-
mit or resubmit a claim for disability com-
pensation under such section 1116A.
(B) The Secretary shall notify in writing
the veteran service organization community
of the ability of veterans described in para-
graph (2) to submit or resubmit claims for
disability compensation under such section
1116A.
(2) VETERAN DESCRIBED.—A veteran de-
scribed in this paragraph is a veteran who,
during active military, naval, or air service,
served offshore of the Republic of Vietnam
during the period beginning on January 9,
1962, and ending on May 7, 1975.
(e) REPORTS.—Not later than January 1,
2021, and annually thereafter for two years,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate a report regarding claims for disability
compensation under section 1116A of title 38,
United States Code, as added by subsection
(a). Each report shall include, with respect
to the calendar year preceding the report,
disaggregated by the regional offices of the
Department of Veterans Affairs, the fol-
lowing:
(1) The number of claims filed under such
section.
(2) The number of such claims granted.
(3) The number of such claims denied.
(f) HEALTH CARE.—Section 1710(e)(4) of title
38, United States Code, is amended by insert-
ing ‘‘(including offshore of such Republic as
described in section 1116A(d) of this title)’’
after ‘‘served on active duty in the Republic
of Vietnam’’.
(g) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on
January 1, 2020.
SEC. 3. PRESUMPTION OF HERBICIDE EXPOSURE
FOR CERTAIN VETERANS WHO
SERVED IN KOREA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 11 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 1116A, as added by section 2, the
following new section:
‘‘§ 1116B. Presumption of herbicide exposure
for certain veterans who served in Korea
‘‘(a) PRESUMPTION OF SERVICE-CONNEC-
TION.—(1) For the purposes of section 1110 of
this title, and subject to section 1113 of this
title, a disease specified in subsection (b)
that becomes manifest as specified in that
subsection in a veteran described in para-
graph (2) shall be considered to have been in-
curred or aggravated in the line of duty in
the active military, naval, or air service,
notwithstanding that there is no record of
evidence of such disease during the period of
such service.
‘‘(2) A veteran described in this paragraph
is a veteran who, during active military,
naval, or air service, served in or near the
Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), during
the period beginning on September 1, 1967,
and ending on August 31, 1971.
‘‘(b) DISEASES.—A disease specified in this
subsection is—
‘‘(1) a disease specified in paragraph (2) of
subsection (a) of section 1116 of this title
that becomes manifest as specified in that
paragraph; or
‘‘(2) any additional disease that—
‘‘(A) the Secretary determines in regula-
tions warrants a presumption of service-con-
nection by reason of having positive associa-
tion with exposure to an herbicide agent; and
‘‘(B) becomes manifest within any period
prescribed in such regulations.
‘‘(c) HERBICIDE AGENT.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘herbicide agent’ has
the meaning given such term in section
1821(d) of this title.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 1116A, as added by section 2, the
following new item:
‘‘1116B. Presumption of herbicide exposure
for certain veterans who served
in Korea.’’.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) GUIDANCE.—Notwithstanding section 501
of such title, the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs may issue guidance to implement sec-
tion 1116B of title 38, United States Code, as
added by subsection (a), before prescribing
new regulations under such section.
(2) UPDATES.—(A) Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit a report to the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
garding the plans of the Secretary to respond
to inquiries from veterans regarding claims
for disability compensation under section
1116B of title 38, United States Code, as
added by subsection (a) of this section.
(B) On a quarterly basis during the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act and ending on the date on which
regulations are prescribed to carry out such
section 1116B, the Secretary shall submit to
the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Senate up-
dates on the status of such regulations.
(3) PENDING CASES.—
(A) AUTHORITY TO STAY.—The Secretary
may stay a claim described in subparagraph
(B) until the date on which the Secretary
commences the implementation of section
1116B of title 38, United States Code, as
added by subsection (a).
(B) CLAIMS DESCRIBED.—A claim described
in this subparagraph is a claim for disability
compensation—
(i) relating to the service and diseases cov-
ered by such section 1116B; and
(ii) that is pending at the Veterans Bene-
fits Administration or the Board of Vet-
erans’ Appeals on or after the date of the en-
actment of this Act and before the date on
which the Secretary commences the imple-
mentation of such section 1116B.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on
January 1, 2020.
SEC. 4. BENEFITS FOR CHILDREN OF CERTAIN
THAILAND SERVICE VETERANS
BORN WITH SPINA BIFIDA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter III of chapter
18 of title 38, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘§ 1822. Benefits for children of certain Thai-
land service veterans born with spina
bifida
‘‘(a) BENEFITS AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary
may provide to any child of a veteran of cov-
ered service in Thailand who is suffering
from spina bifida the health care, vocational
training and rehabilitation, and monetary
allowance required to be paid to a child of a
Vietnam veteran who is suffering from spina
bifida under subchapter I of this chapter as if
such child of a veteran of covered service in
Thailand were a child of a Vietnam veteran
who is suffering from spina bifida under such
subchapter.
‘‘(b) SPINA BIFIDA CONDITIONS COVERED.—
This section applies with respect to all forms
and manifestations of spina bifida, except
spina bifida occulta.
‘‘(c) VETERAN OF COVERED SERVICE IN THAI-
LAND.—For purposes of this section, a vet-
eran of covered service in Thailand is any in-
dividual, without regard to the characteriza-
tion of that individual’s service, who—
‘‘(1) served in the active military, naval, or
air service in Thailand, as determined by the
Secretary in consultation with the Secretary
of Defense, during the period beginning on
January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975;
and
‘‘(2) is determined by the Secretary, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense, to
have been exposed to a herbicide agent dur-
ing such service in Thailand.
‘‘(d) HERBICIDE AGENT.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘herbicide agent’
means a chemical in a herbicide used in sup-
port of United States and allied military op-
erations in Thailand, as determined by the
Secretary in consultation with the Secretary
of Defense, during the period beginning on
January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION
OF ‘‘CHILD’’.—Section 1831(1) of such title is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘subchapter III of this
chapter’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1821 of this
title’’; and
(B) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘section 1821
of this title’’ and inserting ‘‘that section’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(C) For purposes of section 1822 of this
title, an individual, regardless of age or mar-
ital status, who—
‘‘(i) is the natural child of a veteran of cov-
ered service in Thailand (as determined for
purposes of that section); and
‘‘(ii) was conceived after the date on which
that veteran first entered service described
in subsection (c) of that section.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(1) SUBCHAPTER HEADING.—The heading for
subchapter III of chapter 18 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘AND THAILAND’’
after ‘‘KOREA’’.
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 18 of such
title is amended—
(A) by striking the item relating to sub-
chapter III and inserting the following new
item:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER III—CHILDREN OF CERTAIN KOREA
AND THAILAND SERVICE VETERANS BORN WITH
SPINA BIFIDA’’;
and
(B) by inserting after the item relating to
section 1821 the following new item:
‘‘1822. Benefits for children of certain Thai-
land service veterans born with
spina bifida.’’.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.004 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3745
May 14, 2019
(1) GUIDANCE.—Notwithstanding section 501
of such title, the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs may issue guidance to implement sec-
tion 1822 of title 38, United States Code, as
added by subsection (a), before prescribing
new regulations under such section.
(2) UPDATES.—(A) Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit a report to the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
garding the plans of the Secretary to respond
to inquiries from veterans regarding claims
for disability compensation under section
1822 of title 38, United States Code, as added
by subsection (a) of this section.
(B) On a quarterly basis during the period
beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act and ending on the date on which
regulations are prescribed to carry out such
section 1822, the Secretary shall submit to
the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Senate up-
dates on the status of such regulations.
(3) PENDING CASES.—
(A) AUTHORITY TO STAY.—The Secretary
may stay a claim described in subparagraph
(B) until the date on which the Secretary
commences the implementation of section
1822 of title 38, United States Code, as added
by subsection (a).
(B) CLAIMS DESCRIBED.—A claim described
in this subparagraph is a claim for benefits—
(i) relating to the spina bifida and service
covered by such section 1822; and
(ii) that is pending at the Veterans Bene-
fits Administration or the Board of Vet-
erans’ Appeals on or after the date of the en-
actment of this Act and before the date on
which the Secretary commences the imple-
mentation of such section 1822.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Defense, shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate a report identifying—
(1) the military installations of the United
States located in Thailand during the period
beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on
May 7, 1975, at which an herbicide agent (as
defined in section 1822 of title 38, United
States Code, as added by subsection (a)) was
actively used; and
(2) the period of such use.
(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on
January 1, 2020.
SEC. 5. UPDATED REPORT ON CERTAIN GULF
WAR ILLNESS STUDY.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives and the Senate an updated
report on the findings, as of the date of the
updated report, of the Follow-up Study of a
National Cohort of Gulf War and Gulf Era
Veterans under the epidemiology program of
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
SEC. 6. LOANS GUARANTEED UNDER HOME LOAN
PROGRAM OF DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) ADJUSTMENT OF LOAN LIMIT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 3703(a)(1) of title
38, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i)(IV), by striking ‘‘the lesser
of the maximum guaranty amount (as de-
fined in subparagraph (C)) or’’;
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘subpara-
graph (B) of this paragraph’’ and inserting
‘‘subparagraph (B) or (C)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘The maximum’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘With respect to loans described in sub-
clauses (I), (II), or (III) of subparagraph
(A)(i), the maximum’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘or in the case’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘subparagraph (C)),’’;
and
(C) by striking subparagraph (C) and in-
serting the following new subparagraph (C):
‘‘(C)(i) With respect to loans described in
subclause (IV) of subparagraph (A)(i) made
to a veteran not covered by clause (ii), the
maximum amount of guaranty entitlement
available to the veteran shall be 25 percent
of the loan.
‘‘(ii) With respect to loans described in sub-
clause (IV) of subparagraph (A)(i) made to a
covered veteran, the maximum amount of
guaranty entitlement available to the vet-
eran shall be 25 percent of the Freddie Mac
conforming loan limit, reduced by the
amount of entitlement previously used by
the veteran under this chapter and not re-
stored as a result of the exclusion in section
3702(b) of this title.
‘‘(iii) In this subparagraph:
‘‘(I) The term ‘covered veteran’ means a
veteran who has previously used entitlement
under this chapter and for whom the full
amount of entitlement so used has not been
restored as a result of the exclusion in sec-
tion 3702(b) of this title.
‘‘(II) The term ‘Freddie Mac conforming
loan limit’ means the limit determined
under section 305(a)(2) of the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C.
1454(a)(2)) for a single-family residence, as
adjusted for the year involved.’’.
(2) LOANS TO NATIVE AMERICAN VETERANS.—
Section 3762(c) of such title is amended—
(A) by striking paragraph (1); and
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3)
as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
3710(d)(4) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘section 3703(a)(1)(B) of this title’’ and in-
serting ‘‘subparagraph (B) or (C) of section
3703(a)(1) of this title’’.
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF LOAN FEES.—Section
3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is
amended by striking the loan fee table and
inserting the following:
‘‘Type of loan
Active duty
veteran
Reservist
Other
obligor
(A)(i) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct
a dwelling with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in section
3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-down (closed on or after October
1, 2004, and before January 1, 2020)
2.15 2.40 NA
(A)(ii) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct
a dwelling with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in section
3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-down (closed on or after January
1, 2020, and before January 1, 2022)
2.30 2.30 NA
(A)(iii) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or con-
struct a dwelling with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in
section 3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-down (closed on or after
January 1, 2022, and before October 1, 2029)
2.15 2.15 NA
(A)(iv) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct
a dwelling with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in section
3710(a) other than with 5-down or 10-down (closed on or after October
1, 2029)
1.40 1.40 NA
(B)(i) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or con-
struct a dwelling with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan de-
scribed in section 3710(a) (closed on or after October 1, 2004, and be-
fore January 1, 2020)
3.30 3.30 NA
(B)(ii) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or con-
struct a dwelling with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan de-
scribed in section 3710(a) (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and be-
fore January 1, 2022)
3.60 3.60 NA
(B)(iii) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or con-
struct a dwelling with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan de-
scribed in section 3710(a) (closed on or after January 1, 2022, and be-
fore October 1, 2029)
3.30 3.30 NA
(B)(iv) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or con-
struct a dwelling with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan de-
scribed in section 3710(a) (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
1.25 1.25 NA
(C)(i) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 5-down (closed before January 1, 2020)
1.50 1.75 NA
(C)(ii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 5-down (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before
January 1, 2022)
1.65 1.65 NA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.004 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3746 May 14, 2019
‘‘Type of loan
Active duty
veteran
Reservist
Other
obligor
(C)(iii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 5-down (closed on or after January 1, 2022, and before
October 1, 2029)
1.50 1.50 NA
(C)(iv) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 5-down (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
0.75 0.75 NA
(D)(i) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 10-down (closed before January 1, 2020)
1.25 1.50 NA
(D)(ii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 10-down (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before
January 1, 2022)
1.40 1.40 NA
(D)(iii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 10-down (closed on or after January 1, 2022, and before
October 1, 2029)
1.25 1.25 NA
(D)(iv) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 10-down (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
0.50 0.50 NA
(E) Interest rate reduction refinancing loan 0.50 0.50 NA
(F) Direct loan under section 3711 1.00 1.00 NA
(G) Manufactured home loan under section 3712 (other than an interest
rate reduction refinancing loan)
1.00 1.00 NA
(H) Loan to Native American veteran under section 3762 (other than an
interest rate reduction refinancing loan)
1.25 1.25 NA
(I) Loan assumption under section 3714 0.50 0.50 0.50
(J) Loan under section 3733(a) 2.25 2.25 2.25’’.
(c) WAIVER OF FEES FOR PURPLE HEART RE-
CIPIENTS.—Section 3729(c)(1) of such title is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or from a surviving
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘, from a surviving
spouse’’; and
(2) by inserting before the period at the end
the following: ‘‘, or from a member of the
Armed Forces who is serving on active duty
and who provides, on or before the date of
loan closing, evidence of having been award-
ed the Purple Heart’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to a loan guaranteed under section 3710 of
title 38, United States Code, on or after Jan-
uary 1, 2020.
(e) GUIDANCE.—Notwithstanding section 501
of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs may issue guidance to
implement this section before prescribing
new regulations under sections 3703, 3729, and
3762 of such title, as amended by this section.
SEC. 7. INFORMATION GATHERING FOR DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS HOME
LOAN APPRAISALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3731(b) of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) The Secretary shall permit an ap-
praiser on a list developed and maintained
under subsection (a)(3) to make an appraisal
for the purposes of this chapter based solely
on information gathered by a person with
whom the appraiser has entered into an
agreement for such services.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to an appraisal under section 3731 of such
title, on or after January 1, 2020.
(c) GUIDANCE.—Notwithstanding section 501
of such title, the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs may issue guidance to implement this
section before prescribing new regulations
under sections 3731 of such title, as amended
by subsection (a).
SEC. 8. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, for the second time in 2
years, this House has arrived at a turn-
ing point in the journey to adjust VA
compensation policy and finally recog-
nize U.S. Navy sailors who were ex-
posed to toxic herbicides during the
Vietnam war.
Congress has failed our blue water
Navy veterans, plain and simple. Those
who have advocated for and partici-
pated in the process to bring this legis-
lation to the House floor know this his-
tory is deeply tragic. By not granting
the benefits these veterans earned
more than 40 years ago, these veterans
and their survivors continue to experi-
ence immeasurable pain, death, and
grief caused by the spraying of 12.1 mil-
lion gallons of highly toxic Agent Or-
ange during the Vietnam war. It was
unjust then, and it is unjust now. But
today, we have an opportunity to right
this wrong.
For Members of Congress, this
fraught history comes with a responsi-
bility to provide compensation and
care for the injury Agent Orange expo-
sure has caused. Though the exposures
occurred primarily in the 1960s, Con-
gress didn’t find the resolve to act
until 1991, and it left out key groups of
veterans exposed to Agent Orange, ef-
fectively denying their suffering that
was a direct result of their military
service.
Today, we will right this wrong by
including three additional categories of
veterans injured by Agent Orange: the
blue water Navy Vietnam veterans; the
veterans who served in the Korean
DMZ; and children with spina bifida
born to parents exposed during their
service in Thailand.
The Blue Water Navy Vietnam Vet-
erans Act of 2019 is the quickest and
surest way to deliver benefits to these
veterans. It is the direct result of bi-
partisan efforts by Ranking Member
PHIL ROE and myself to bring this to
the House floor for consideration.
The 2019 version of H.R. 299 is an up-
dated version of the act this House
passed unanimously last Congress. It
follows the Federal circuit court deci-
sion in Procopio. That case reversed
VA’s 1997 decision to deny the pre-
sumption of Agent Orange exposure to
veterans that served off the shores of
Vietnam.
The Procopio decision was a huge
step forward, but we need more. We
need to ensure blue water Navy vet-
erans are protected in the event
Procopio is appealed to the Supreme
Court and overturned.
That is why we have worked together
with veteran service organizations to
establish, without doubt, that blue
water Navy veterans are entitled to
this presumption.
Our current proposal is very similar
to the bill passed in the last Congress.
It includes crucial geo-coordinates that
require VA to recognize service off the
shore of Vietnam when deciding claims
for disability compensation for herbi-
cide-related diseases.
Let me repeat: This proposal is the
quickest and clearest route to deliv-
ering benefits to those deserving vet-
erans. They have waited long enough.
H.R. 299 has the full support of the
American Legion, the Veterans of For-
eign Wars, the Disabled American Vet-
erans, the Vietnam Veterans of Amer-
ica, the Paralyzed Veterans of Amer-
ica, and many other veteran service or-
ganizations.
I have two letters signed by 25 of
these organizations, and I included
them in the RECORD.
MAY 13, 2019.
Hon. MARK TAKANO,
Chairman, House Veterans’ Affairs Committee,
Washington, DC.
Hon. PHIL ROE,
Ranking Member, House Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN TAKANO AND RANKING
MEMBER DR. ROE: As leaders of major vet-
erans’ organizations, and on behalf of our
more than 5 million combined members, we
write to offer our strongest support for H.R.
299, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.004 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3747
May 14, 2019
Act and to encourage all Members of Con-
gress to vote to approve this legislation.
As you know, during the 115th Congress,
Blue Water Navy legislation passed the
House by a vote of 382 to 0; however, the bill
was not successful in the Senate. We thank
you both for reintroducing Blue Water Navy
veteran legislation in the 116th Congress and
we are grateful that with your leadership
H.R. 299 was unanimously reported out of the
House Veterans’ Affairs Committee on May
8, 2019.
When VA implemented the Agent Orange
Act of 1991, it determined that veterans who
received the Vietnam Service Medal, to in-
clude those who served in the waters off-
shore, were exposed to Agent Orange. In 1993,
a VA General Counsel opinion held that vet-
erans with service in the waters offshore
were exposed to Agent Orange. However, in
1997, VA General Counsel opined that the
1996 Veterans Benefits Improvements Act de-
termined only veterans who physically
served in Vietnam were exposed to Agent Or-
ange, although that was not stated in the
law.
To clarify, from 1991 to 1997 veterans with
service in the waters offshore of Vietnam
were considered to have been exposed to
Agent Orange, as Congress intended. The 1997
decision to exclude Blue Water Navy vet-
erans was not based on medical or scientific
evidence, law, or Congressional intent; it was
based on a misinterpretation.
On January 29th, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit in Procopio v. Wilkie,
overruled VA’s previous misinterpretations
and determined that service in the Republic
of Vietnam includes the territorial waters
within 12 nautical miles of the baseline.
H.R. 299 would fully protect Procopio’s
holdings that service in the Republic of Viet-
nam includes the territorial waters. The bill
would use the same grid coordinates in the
legislation approved by the House last year,
which would extend beyond 12 nautical miles
in some locations, particularly the Mekong
Delta.
H.R. 299 will also expand benefits for Ko-
rean DMZ veterans who suffer from diseases
and illnesses directly linked to Agent Or-
ange. The bill would provide an earlier date
of exposure for Vietnam Era veterans who
served on the DMZ.
This legislation would also expand cov-
erage for those children suffering from spina
bifida because of their parents’ exposure to
Agent Orange while serving in Thailand dur-
ing the Vietnam War. This change would
provide these children benefits on par with
those received by children of Vietnam vet-
erans.
For decades, tens of thousands of veterans,
their families, and survivors have been de-
nied their earned benefits. While it is long
past due, it is time that we correct the injus-
tice done to Blue Water Navy veterans and
provide protection of the Procopio decision
by passing H.R. 299.
We thank you for your unwavering com-
mitment and dedication to Blue Water Navy
Vietnam veterans. We look forward to the
day when we will finally pay a long overdue
debt to tens of thousands of Blue Water Navy
Vietnam veterans, their families and sur-
vivors.
Respectfully,
EDWARD R. REESE, JR.,
Executive Director,
Washington Head-
quarters, DAV (Dis-
abled American Vet-
erans).
LOUIS CELLI, JR.,
Executive Director,
Government & Vet-
erans Affairs, The
American Legion.
RICK WEIDMAN,
Executive Director for
Policy, Vietnam Vet-
erans of America.
DANA T. ATKINS,
Lieutenant General,
U.S. Air Force
(Ret.), President,
Military Officers As-
sociation of America.
ROBERT E. WALLACE,
Executive Director,
Veterans of Foreign
Wars of the United
States.
CARL BLAKE,
Executive Director,
Paralyzed Veterans
of America.
JOSEPH R. CHENELLY,
Executive Director,
AMVETS.
DOUGLAS GREENLAW,
National Commander,
Military Order of
the Purple Heart.
NATIONAL MILITARY &
VETERANS ALLIANCE,
May 11, 2019.
Hon. MARK TAKANO,
Chairman, House Veterans Affairs Committee,
Washington, DC.
Hon. PHIL ROE,
Ranking Member, House Veterans Affairs Com-
mittee,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN TAKANO AND RANKING
MEMBER ROE: The National Military and
Veterans Alliance (NMVA), a non-partisan
advocacy group comprised of the undersigned
military and veteran service organizations,
is pleased to offer our support for H.R. 299.
H.R. 299—The Blue Water Navy Vietnam
Veterans Act. H.R. 299 recognizes and brings
relief to veterans who, during active mili-
tary, naval, or air service, served offshore of
the Republic of Vietnam during the period
beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on
May 7, 1975 by amending Title 38 to recognize
the presumption that these veterans have
been exposed to the herbicide Agent Orange,
notwithstanding that there is no record of
evidence of such disease during the period of
such service.
Our organizations are all familiar with the
history of Agent Orange and its use in Viet-
nam. The United States spread over 20,000,000
gallons of the potent chemical-laced herbi-
cide over southern Vietnam throughout the
1960’s and first part of the 1970’s. These areas
included coastal regions and the areas
around rivers and streams that emptied into
the South China Sea where our Blue Water
Navy service members operated.
U.S. Government-initiated studies have
proven that Agent Orange causes cancer and
birth defects and there are now numerous
documented ways that ‘‘Blue Water’’ sailors,
like their ‘‘Brown Water’’ shipmates, were
exposed to Agent Orange while serving
aboard ships in these contaminated areas.
One of the benefits of military service,
whether in peace or in a time of war, is the
peace of mind that comes with knowing that
veterans and their families will be cared for.
Politics should, under no circumstances,
ever interfere with that peace of mind. The
enactment of H.R. 299 will ensure that the
veterans and their families who have suf-
fered from the use of Agent Orange by the
United States in Vietnam will finally receive
the care and relief they need.
NMVA is also pleased that H.R. 299 solves
another inequity by finally extending the VA
Home Loan funding fee waiver to active duty
Purple Heart recipients. Currently, this
waiver is granted only to veterans with VA
service-connected disabilities, and we see ab-
solutely no reason why combat-wounded
service members, the vast majority of whom
will almost certainly qualify for VA dis-
ability compensation upon discharge, should
be denied this significant benefit, simply be-
cause they continue to serve in uniform.
NMVA thanks you for your leadership on
these issues and your commitment to service
members, veterans, retirees and their fami-
lies. We look forward to working with you to
ensure the passage of this important legisla-
tion.
Sincerely,
TED PAINTER,
Co-Director, National
Military & Veterans
Alliance, Executive
Director, Armed
Forces Retirees Asso-
ciation.
ALEKS MOROSK,
Co-Director, National
Military & Veterans
Alliance, National
Legislative Director,
Military Order of
the Purple Heart.
NATIONAL MILITARY AND VETERANS ALLIANCE
MEMBER ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTING THIS
LETTER
American Military Society, American Re-
tirees Association, AMVETS, Armed Forces
Retirees Association, Army and Navy Union,
Association of the United States Navy, Mili-
tary Order of Foreign Wars, Military Order
of the Purple Heart, Military Order of the
World Wars, Naval Enlisted Reserve Associa-
tion, Reserve Officers Association, Sea Serv-
ice Family Foundation, Society of Military
Widows, The Independence Fund, The Re-
tired Enlisted Association, Tragedy Assist-
ance Program for Survivors, VetsFirst, Viet-
nam Veterans of America.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I also
want to mention the efforts we made to
pay for this bill, so it can pass the Sen-
ate this Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the Congressional Budget Office scores.
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
U.S. CONGRESS,
Washington, DC, May 13, 2019.
Hon. MARK TAKANO,
Chairman, Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The Congressional
Budget Office has prepared the enclosed cost
estimate for H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy
Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019.
If you wish further details on this esti-
mate, we wil1 be pleased to provide them.
The CBO staff contact is Logan Smith.
Sincerely,
KEITH HALL.
Enclosure.
[By fiscal year, millions of dollars]
2019
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
Direct Spending (Outlays) .................... 0 135 ¥75
Revenues .............................................. 0 0 0
Deficit Effect ........................................ 0 135 ¥75
Spending Subject to Appropriation
(Outlays) .......................................... 0 70 191
Pay-as-you-go procedures apply? Yes.
Increases on-budget deficits in any of the
four consecutive 10–year periods beginning in
2030? $5 billion.
Mandate Effects:
Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.
Contains private-sector mandate? No.
The bill would:
Modify home loan programs administered
by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
Increase disability compensation and ex-
pand health care for more veterans who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.012 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3748 May 14, 2019
served in the seas near Vietnam during the
Vietnam War.
Provide disability compensation to certain
veterans who served near the Korea Demili-
tarized Zone.
Provide payments, vocational training, re-
habilitation services, and health care to the
biological children of certain veterans who
served in Thailand during the Vietnam War
if those children have been diagnosed with
Spina Bifida.
Estimated budgetary effects would pri-
marily stem from:
Changes to VA’s home loan programs.
Increased disability compensation and
health care benefits for certain veterans.
Areas of significant uncertainty include:
The number of veterans affected by the bill
and the change in their disability ratings.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, the deci-
sion in Procopio removed much of the
cost issues both Chambers struggled
with in the last Congress. Because we
are covering more veterans than the
Procopio decision, the ranking member
and I included a mechanism in the bill
to cover both the mandatory and dis-
cretionary costs. As was the case with
the bill that passed last Congress, the
pay-for results from raising the current
rate of the filing fee veterans pay when
applying for a home loan under the VA
mortgage guarantee program.
We are running out of time to do
what is right for the blue water Navy
veterans and the survivors of those vet-
erans we have already lost. It is time
for Congress to make our intention
clear. The evidence supports granting
this presumption in favor of these vet-
erans.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support
of H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Viet-
nam Veterans Act of 2019 which would
extend the presumption of exposure to
herbicides to veterans who served in
the offshore waters of Vietnam.
I want to thank Chairman TAKANO
for reintroducing this legislation and
for working with me to get this bill to
the House floor.
It is no surprise that the fight for our
blue water Navy Vietnam veterans to
receive the benefits they deserve is
near and dear to me. Last Congress, I
was heartened by the overwhelming
support for these veterans when the
House passed H.R. 299 by a vote of 382–
0.
To say the least, I was very dis-
appointed that last year’s bill stalled
in the Senate, and never made it to the
President’s desk. However, with 333 co-
sponsors, it is my hope this legislation
passes the House with the same bipar-
tisan support as last year’s package,
and the Senate takes it up quickly. I
know that is an oxymoron in the Sen-
ate, but quickly.
As many of you know, Agent Orange
was used in Vietnam to defoliate areas
in the jungle where enemy forces would
ambush our troops. When Vietnam vet-
erans began developing diseases as a re-
sult of their contact with Agent Or-
ange, Congress legislated the Agent Or-
ange presumption to streamline bene-
fits for affected veterans.
Unfortunately, the Department of
Veterans Affairs’ longstanding practice
was to limit the presumption to vet-
erans who set foot, boots on the
ground, in Vietnam or served in inland
waterways or brown water.
The blue water Navy Vietnam vet-
erans were excluded from the presump-
tion because VA claims there was not
enough information to determine
whether they came into contact with
herbicides. As a result, blue water
Navy Vietnam veterans must provide
evidence that they were actually
harmed by herbicides.
I understand how incredibly difficult
this must be for veterans who try to
find any records for potential exposure.
I served in the United States 2nd Infan-
try Division in Korea near the DMZ,
and I have no way to prove where I
walked there 40-something years ago.
There is just no way to prove that.
But right now, these veterans are
suffering from conditions that are
known to be associated with exposure
to Agent Orange, and I believe Con-
gress must act to resolve this issue de-
finitively.
The recent court decision in Procopio
was a huge victory for our blue water
Navy Vietnam veterans. However, it is
unclear how VA plans to implement
the court’s holdings. Congress should
not wait for this issue to work itself
out by VA or the courts.
These veterans have waited long
enough to receive acknowledgment
from VA that their illnesses may have
been caused by their military service.
Mr. Speaker, 523 Vietnam veterans
are dying each day. So, if the VA and
this government waits long enough, we
will all die. We need to get this done.
We must pass H.R. 299, as amended,
so that our blue water Vietnam Navy
veterans can qualify for the same bene-
fits as their boots-on-the-ground and
brown-water Navy comrades.
Moreover, H.R. 299 not only addresses
the concerns of blue water Navy Viet-
nam veterans, but also includes provi-
sions that would: one, extend the pre-
sumption to veterans who served in or
near the Korean DMZ on September 1,
1967; provide benefits to certain chil-
dren of Thailand veterans who were ex-
posed to Agent Orange; and require VA
to identify the U.S. military bases lo-
cated in Thailand where Agent Orange
was used and when it was used.
Mr. Speaker, one of my best friends I
will ever have in my life who served on
one of those air bases died of a very
rare lymphoma. The perimeter was
sprayed with Agent Orange, and he
died about 4 years ago.
H.R. 299 also provides an update on
current research on their potential or
in-service toxic exposures of the Gulf
War veterans.
Finally, this bill would make several
improvements to the VA home loan
program, including: changing VA’s
home appraisal system so that vet-
erans can close on their homes quicker
and more seamlessly; eliminating the
conforming home loan limit to allow
veterans to use their earned VA loan
benefits in more expensive areas; ex-
tending the waiver of home loan fund-
ing fees to recipients of the Purple
Heart who are still serving on Active
Duty; and temporarily increasing VA’s
home loan funding fees for nondisabled
veterans, which would offset the cost of
the bill.
I would be remiss if I did not thank
veteran service organizations for their
unwavering support on this issue. I am
particularly grateful to the Veterans of
Foreign Wars, the Disabled American
Veterans, The American Legion, the
Vietnam Veterans of America, the Par-
alyzed Veterans of America, the Mili-
tary Officers Association of America,
AMVETS, and the Military Order of
the Purple Heart for their hard work
on this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I just read a study that
was published yesterday that the
United States is going into Vietnam
and providing some benefits for some
of the people there whose offspring
were damaged. We are also doing mega-
site cleanups. We are spending tens of
millions of dollars to clean up Da Nang
and Bien Hoa, the two major air bases
where this Agent Orange was used.
It is time we did the same thing for
America’s veterans here in the United
States. That is the right thing to do
there. It is the right thing to do here.
I think I can speak for all of us today
when I say that H.R. 299, as amended,
does the right thing for our veterans.
Once again, Mr. Speaker, I encourage
all Members to support H.R. 299, as
amended, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1515
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Mrs. LURIA). She is my good
friend and the chairwoman of the Dis-
ability Assistance and Memorial Af-
fairs Subcommittee and also a cospon-
sor of H.R. 299.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak in support of H.R. 299,
the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Vet-
erans Act. As a Navy veteran myself,
this issue hits close to home, specifi-
cally in coastal Virginia, the district
that I have the honor of representing.
At my first townhall after taking of-
fice, the wife of a Virginia Beach Viet-
nam veteran posed a deeply personal
question. She said to me: Where is the
blue water Navy sailor bill? I have a
dying vet at home from Agent Orange
who wants his country to respond to
his service during Vietnam.
After the townhall, I talked with her
more in depth on the issue, and with
tears in her eyes, she asked me again
for help and to make sure Congress did
not forget her husband’s service and
what he sacrificed for our country.
I stand today to speak on behalf of
the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Vet-
erans Act so that my constituent and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.019 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3749
May 14, 2019
so many others across the Nation will
know that we have not forsaken their
service.
I am thankful to the House of Rep-
resentatives for stepping up to the
plate and fulfilling our responsibility
to our veterans and their service to
America. I am proud to support their
cause today.
This bipartisan bill on the floor
would finally correct an injustice for
veterans who are suffering and dying
from conditions related to Agent Or-
ange exposure and who have been un-
fairly denied VA disability and health
benefits for more than four decades.
For those who may not know, blue
water Navy Vietnam veterans are serv-
icemembers who served at sea off the
shore of Vietnam during the Vietnam
war.
A Federal Court, in January, ruled
that the VA was wrong in denying dis-
ability and health benefits to blue
water Navy Vietnam veterans who
were exposed to the toxin Agent Or-
ange; however, the administration has
not yet committed to implementing
this decision. As a result, the blue
water Navy veterans are still in limbo,
and Congress must act to secure their
benefits.
Mr. Speaker, I urge quick House pas-
sage of our bipartisan legislation so
our Senate colleagues can do the same
and get this to the White House and
pass it into law.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST), who
was the previous chairman of the Dis-
ability Assistance and Memorial Af-
fairs Subcommittee and is now ranking
member.
Mr. MIKE BOST is a marine veteran
who also led a bill that we passed 2
years ago, the appeals modernization
bill, a bill that has helped so many dis-
abled veterans get their claims adju-
dicated more quickly.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in support of H.R. 299, the Blue Water
Navy Vietnam Veterans Act.
I am a marine and a member of the
Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Caring
for our Nation’s men and women who
have served is a top priority for me and
for my staff and, I know, for the mem-
bers of this committee. They should
have peace of mind knowing that they
will be cared for by this grateful Na-
tion.
I have had many veterans come into
my office with health problems. Some-
times they can’t pinpoint the problem
at all, but all too often they can if they
served in Vietnam: It is exposure to
Agent Orange.
We now have 100,000 Navy veterans
who served on ships during the Viet-
nam war and later became ill from
their service due to exposure to Agent
Orange. Unfortunately, without this
legislation, they do not qualify for the
same benefits as their fellow veterans
who served on the ground.
We must do better. Today’s legisla-
tion is a step forward in the right di-
rection. This critical legislation en-
sures they receive benefits for any con-
dition they may have developed as a re-
sult of exposure to Agent Orange. It is
a bipartisan bill, and it puts our vet-
erans first.
As has been mentioned before, we
passed this bill to the Senate last Con-
gress. Unfortunately, the Senate did
not, and was not, able to take it up. My
hope and my prayer is that we pass this
quickly, that it goes to the Senate,
that they quickly do their job, and
that, with that, we can get it to this
President’s desk, get it signed, and
take care of these veterans who deserve
it and have waited so long.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume to
say that my good friend, Congressman
COURTNEY from Connecticut, is, unfor-
tunately, unable to join us to speak in
support of the Blue Water Navy Viet-
nam Veterans Act due to an illness.
The gentleman from Connecticut has
been a steadfast advocate for the blue
water Navy veterans and the veterans
in his district, and I want to express
my gratitude to him for pushing the
Veterans’ Affairs Committee and the
House to right this wrong and ensure
veterans receive the benefits they are
owed.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
MEUSER). DAN MEUSER is a new and
very dedicated member of our com-
mittee.
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Dr. ROE for the time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today as well in
support of H.R. 299, the Blue Water
Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019, an
important bipartisan bill that will fi-
nally guarantee equality for the blue
water Navy Vietnam veterans exposed
to Agent Orange.
Agent Orange was used by the U.S.
military to strategically clear terrain
and deforest areas during the Vietnam
war. This tactical chemical has been
linked, however, to prostate cancer,
Parkinson’s disease, and many other
diseases.
For far too long, only veterans who
served on Vietnam’s landmass or in-
land waterways were entitled to the
service-connected presumption of expo-
sure to Agent Orange. This legislation
ensures that the same automatic pre-
sumption is provided to those who
served in the territorial seas of Viet-
nam. H.R. 299 addresses and perma-
nently fixes this by properly defining
those who will be eligible for VA bene-
fits related to Agent Orange.
With this bill, we ensure that blue
water Navy veterans will be treated
fairly and will receive the benefits and
care they deserve. I am proud to be a
cosponsor of this important bill, and I
will continue to work for our Nation’s
veterans, providing them the care and
benefits they have earned.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume to
pay tribute to the late Congressman
Walter B. Jones, Jr., from North Caro-
lina, who cosponsored H.R. 299 at the
very beginning of this Congress. It sad-
dens me that we weren’t able to pass
this bipartisan bill into law before his
passing. As a former member of the
North Carolina National Guard, he
would be proud to know that this bill
was being considered on the House
floor today and that we will continue
to push to get this legislation passed
into law.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, first of all, I would like to
thank the chairman. I know Walter’s
family appreciates that. He served this
House, this Chamber, honorably for so
many years and was an incredible sup-
porter of our Nation’s veterans. I know
his family and I certainly appreciate
the chairman’s acknowledging his serv-
ice and his dedication to our veterans.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from New York (Mr.
ZELDIN). I have been to his district, and
there is no better and more fervent
supporter of our Nation’s veterans.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the ranking member, and I thank the
chairman for bringing this bill to the
entire committee in a bipartisan fash-
ion again. This is the second time that
the House has taken action to pass this
legislation. It is incredibly important
for the Senate to do their part to help
make this actually become law. I am
looking forward to that bill signing,
and it is decades overdue.
I rise today in support of H.R. 299,
the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Vet-
erans Act, of which I am a proud co-
sponsor. This bill expands treatment
coverage for those affected by Agent
Orange from not only those who served
on the ground, but to those service-
members who are known as blue water
Navy vets who were affected while
serving our Nation at sea.
I live in a county called Suffolk in
the State of New York. We have the
largest veterans population of any
county in the entire State. Thousands
of Vietnam veterans and their families
would now be able to receive benefits
that they have earned. These brave
servicemembers have put their lives on
the line for our great Nation, and they
have earned nothing less than the high-
est quality care.
Additionally, this legislation in-
cludes my bill, the Flexible VA Loan
Guarantee Act, which expands vet-
erans’ opportunity for homeownership
by eliminating the loan limit the VA
can guarantee. This is especially crit-
ical in districts like mine.
I thank Chairman TAKANO and Rank-
ing Member ROE for bringing this bill
to the floor, and I urge all my col-
leagues in the Chamber to vote for it.
As I mentioned, this is the second
time this legislation is passing the
House. It is incredibly important that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.029 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3750 May 14, 2019
all those in the Capitol on the other
side in the Senate do the same. I urge
them to immediately take up the Blue
Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act and
care for all of our Nation’s service-
members.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I want to take a moment on this his-
toric day to recognize the effort of
former Veterans’ Affairs Committee
Ranking Member Tim Walz. He was a
primary mover of the Blue Water Navy
Vietnam Veterans Act for 12 years
while he was in Congress, and I know
this effort was very important to him.
He said many times that compen-
sating and providing care for toxic ex-
posures is one of the greatest chal-
lenges the Veterans’ Affairs Committee
faces but that no veteran should ever
have to wait more than 40 years again.
When he left, he challenged us to
make sure that this pattern of denying
benefits does not continue. As chair-
man of this committee, I will do what
I can to meet Tim Walz’s challenge.
Mr. Speaker, I know that Tim has a
big smile on his face in the Governor’s
mansion back in Minnesota, and I just
want him to know that he has had a
big part in today’s victory.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, we all know why dioxin,
or Agent Orange, was sprayed in Viet-
nam. At the time we thought, our gov-
ernment thought, that we were pro-
tecting our troops by spraying this de-
foliant to expose the hiding places
where they were being ambushed. We
understand that. I get that.
Mr. Speaker, if you were at an air
base in Thailand and you were being
attacked on the perimeter, I under-
stand why it was being done. It turns
out it was a horrific mistake, and it is
costing lives now.
It is time to do the right thing, and
the right thing with 523 of us dying
each day is to pass this bill, H.R. 299,
and get it to the Senate. I believe the
chairman and I would like to challenge
the Senate to start hearing this and
perhaps even vote on it before Memo-
rial Day. That would be the right thing
to do.
Also, I want to thank Congressman
David Valadao, who is no longer here,
along with my good friend Mr. Walz,
who is now the Governor of Minnesota.
Congressman Valadao was very helpful.
There was not a day on the House floor
that I was down here that David was
not asking me: When are we going to
get the Blue Water Navy bill passed?
When are we going to pass this bill?
Mr. Speaker, it is time to stop talk-
ing about it, and it is time to do some-
thing about it. The reason that it is
important to not let the courts decide
is another court may decide just like
1997, when they changed what the VA
was doing. So it is time to put this in
the footprint of the law so that there is
no question about what we do.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the chairman. I want to thank
him for when he was a member of the
committee when I was chairman of the
last Congress, how hard we all worked
in a bipartisan way to get this done.
Just so the public knows, last week,
we passed 18 bills—this is one of them—
out of our committee in a bipartisan
way on a voice vote. Congress can
work. This is one of the ways it does
work very well. Again, I want to thank
my staff and the majority staff for
their help with this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, passage of this legisla-
tion is a once-in-a-generation oppor-
tunity to right an injustice. I urge all
my colleagues to champion this legis-
lation, H.R. 299, as amended, so we can
finally pass it into law and get justice
for these veterans.
I associate myself with the challenge
that the ranking member has made to
the Senate. I would have rather they
got it done by the end of the week, but
I would be perfectly happy if we get the
Blue Water Navy bill done by Memorial
Day.
b 1530
I, too, want to congratulate the hard
work of my staff and your staff, for
their working together. The solidarity
that our staffs had in getting this bill
to the floor, done, and tied with a rib-
bon and bow was really important. I
appreciate the bipartisan spirit that
not only exists between me and the
gentleman, and the members of our
committee, but also the spirit of co-
operation that exists with our respec-
tive staffs.
Mr. Speaker, the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee is that corner of Congress
that still works. It is with great pride
today that I close out these remarks
and urge my colleagues to support H.R.
299, as amended.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to speak in support of H.R. 299, the Blue
Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019.
During the Vietnam War, the United States
Military sprayed approximately 20 million gal-
lons of Agent Orange, across the southern
half of Vietnam to destroy jungle foliage that
concealed enemy personnel and supply
routes. The Agent Orange was carried into riv-
ers by soil and plant run-off. The hydraulic
plumes from where the rivers met the coast
mixed hundreds of miles of coastal water with
contaminated river water. To make matters
worse, rivers and harbors were also sprayed,
contaminating the ocean water even further.
Due to the constant churning of the seabed
from U.S. Navy Vessels moving up and down
the coast, the Agent Orange would rise to the
surface where it would be picked up every
time Navy ships converted the salt water into
potable water. A University of Queensland
study on the Australian distillation system,
which is the identical system used in U.S.
ships, determined that the conversion process
enriched the toxic chemical ingredient
Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-Dioxin (TCDD) in Agent
Orange to an even higher concentration in the
filtered water. The contaminated water was
then used by a ship’s crew for cooking, clean-
ing, showering, laundry, and drinking, effec-
tively giving our sailors a heavy exposure to
Agent Orange during their deployment.
Medical research concluded that exposure
to the dioxin found in Agent Orange causes
numerous health issues including respiratory
and blood cancers, prostate cancer, and non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma. According to a report
from the Institute of Medicine, individuals with
exposure to Agent Orange at an increased
risk of developing serious heart problems and
Parkinson’s disease.
Until 2002, presumptive coverage for ac-
cessing health care for these side effects was
provided to our Blue Water Navy Veterans.
However, the Department of Veterans Affairs,
failed to recognize the territorial seas as a part
of the sovereign territory of Vietnam. The VA
unilaterally decided that it would only provide
presumptive coverage to those Veterans who
served on land or on inland waterways.
Veterans that were exposed to these toxic
chemicals, while serving their country have
been neglected for too long. Congress must
act on this pressing issue by passing this im-
portant piece of legislation that is supported by
333 co-sponsors. H.R. 299 extends the pre-
sumption of exposure for service connection
for diseases associated with exposure to
Agent Orange to U.S. Navy Veterans who
served offshore during wartime missions and
also lengthens eligibility for VA benefits to cer-
tain children with spina bifida who were born
to Veterans who served in Thailand and were
exposed to Agent Orange.
I urge my colleagues to support this bipar-
tisan bill. Those Veterans who sacrificed their
lives on behalf of America’s freedom truly de-
serve better.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of the Blue Water Navy Viet-
nam Veterans Act of 2019 (H.R. 299).
When our brave men and women sign up to
serve, the American people make a promise
to them. We assure them of clearly defined
benefits that are guaranteed upon completion
of their service. Unfortunately, for many vet-
erans of the Vietnam era who served offshore
of the Republic of Vietnam, our government
fell short of this solemn duty.
In 1991, Congress passed the Agent Or-
ange Act, legislation that instituted the pre-
sumption of service connection for certain dis-
eases linked to exposure to defoliants and
herbicides like Agent Orange. This law built
upon the Veterans’ Dioxin and Radiation Ex-
posure Compensation Standards Act of 1984
that directed the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to develop a system of disability com-
pensation for Vietnam era veterans who had
been exposed to Agent Orange.
However, these laws failed to acknowledge
that veterans who served in the territorial seas
during the Vietnam War, known as Blue Water
Navy Veterans, were also exposed to Agent
Orange. In addition to handling toxic chemi-
cals onboard naval vessels, many of these
chemicals polluted rivers and streams in Viet-
nam that ran into the territorial seas. This con-
taminated water was then used by the U.S.
Navy for drinking, bathing, and other pur-
poses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.030 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3751
May 14, 2019
H.R. 299 finally acknowledges that our Blue
Water Navy Veterans were exposed to these
toxic chemicals. It remedies the inequity
among veterans of the Vietnam era by extend-
ing the presumption of service connection for
certain conditions to those who served off-
shore, and it is a long overdue step towards
making these veterans whole. I hope that the
Senate will swiftly take up this legislation once
the House passes it today.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues
to support this legislation and finally welcome
back home our Blue Water Navy Veterans.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 299, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
REAUTHORIZING BULLETPROOF
VEST PARTNERSHIP GRANT PRO-
GRAM
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I move to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 2379) to reauthorize
the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant
Program, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2379
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. BULLETPROOF VEST PARTNERSHIP
GRANT PROGRAM REAUTHORIZA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1001(a)(23) of title
I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10261(a)(23)) is
amended by striking ‘‘part Y’’ and all that
follows and inserting ‘‘part Y, $30,000,000 for
fiscal year 2020, and each fiscal year there-
after.’’.
(b) PROGRAM NAME.—Part Y of title I of the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10531 et seq.) is amended by
inserting before section 2501 the following:
‘‘SEC. 2500. PATRICK LEAHY BULLETPROOF VEST
PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.
‘‘The program under this part shall be
known as the ‘Patrick Leahy Bulletproof
Vest Partnership Grant Program’.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days
in which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
The Bulletproof Vest Partnership
Grant Program stands as a shining ex-
ample of the public safety collabora-
tion between Congress and local gov-
ernments to improve public safety and
protect the officers who protect us.
In the 20 years that the program has
been in existence, Congress has allo-
cated funds that have enabled local law
enforcement agencies to purchase more
than 1.3 million bulletproof vests.
Through this program, thousands of of-
ficers have survived what would other-
wise have been deadly shootings.
Without the Bulletproof Vest Part-
nership Grant Program, local jurisdic-
tions that lack the financial means to
purchase vests would simply be unable
to do so.
As reauthorized under H.R. 2379, the
program would give priority to small
jurisdictions that apply for assistance.
Those that most need the Federal sup-
port will continue to have priority.
An often-overlooked element of the
program is the supporting role the Na-
tional Institute of Justice plays in pro-
viding expert analysis on the quality
and life expectancy of bulletproof
vests, ensuring that officers who patrol
our streets every day and every night
wear vests that will give them the
measure of safety that they deserve.
Importantly, the Bulletproof Vest
Partnership Grant Program has
worked in recent years to ensure the
vests that female officers are issued fit
properly and provide the same protec-
tion as the vests that male officers are
issued.
With H.R. 2379, the House today
takes a crucial step toward ending an
uncertainty concerning the future of
the program by permanently author-
izing its funding at $30 million per
year.
It is fitting that we consider this im-
portant legislation at the start of Na-
tional Police Week, which honors those
who serve and have paid the ultimate
price and sacrifice in protecting our
communities.
Since President John F. Kennedy
first signed the proclamation desig-
nating National Peace Officers Memo-
rial Day in 1962, officers and citizens
assemble in our Nation’s Capital dur-
ing Police Week to thank law enforce-
ment officers for their service, dedica-
tion, and commitment.
It is in that spirit that we seek to re-
authorize the Bulletproof Vest Part-
nership Grant Program. It is also fit-
ting that this bill names the program
in honor of the distinguished Senator
from Vermont, PATRICK LEAHY, who
played a critical role in conceiving it
and who has been a consistent cham-
pion of its continuation and, now, its
permanent reauthorization.
I thank Senator LEAHY for his leader-
ship.
I would be remiss if I were not to rec-
ognize the tireless efforts of the author
of H.R. 2379, my good friend Congress-
man BILL PASCRELL, who has worked
diligently to bring this bipartisan bill
to the floor today.
Mr. Speaker, this is an important bill
that will help protect those who put
their lives on the line to protect us. I
urge my colleagues to support it today,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 2379, a bill to reauthorize the
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant
Program, and I would also like to
thank Mr. PASCRELL for his work on
this. This is something that we have
seen over many years, and I appreciate
the chairman and my friend from Geor-
gia on the committee for bringing this
forward as well.
The Bulletproof Vest Partnership, or
the BVP, created by the Bulletproof
Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998, is a
unique U.S. Department of Justice ini-
tiative designed to provide a critical
resource to State and local law en-
forcement. The goal of the BVP is to
support the purchase of body armor
that has been tested and found to com-
ply with applicable ballistic and stab
standards promulgated by the National
Institute of Justice.
For the past 20 years, the BVP has
awarded more than 13,000 jurisdictions
a total of $467 million in Federal funds
for the purchase of over 1.3 million
vests.
From fiscal year 2015 through 2017,
protective vests were directly attrib-
utable to saving the lives of at least 129
law enforcement and corrections offi-
cers. BVP funds helped purchase 21 of
those vests.
In short, body armor saves lives. For
30 years, bullet-resistant body armor
has protected law enforcement officers
from ballistic and nonballistic inci-
dents. As recorded by the IACP/DuPont
Kevlar Survivors’ Club, more than 3,100
officers have survived potentially fatal
or disabling injuries because they were
wearing their body armor.
The bill before us today permanently
reauthorizes this vitally important
program. It will ensure our local heroes
are protected from those who try to do
them harm.
When a law enforcement officer
leaves home in the morning, there is no
guarantee he or she will return home
safely that evening. This program
makes it more likely, though, that
these heroes will see their families
again.
That is why I am an original cospon-
sor of H.R. 2379. As the son of a Georgia
State trooper, I know what that means.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL).
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of the brave
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.007 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3752 May 14, 2019
men and women who place their lives
on the line to protect our communities.
They deserve every ounce of support
from their government.
I introduced H.R. 2379 to perma-
nently authorize the Bulletproof Vest
Partnership Grant Program at $30 mil-
lion every year. Our bill will help
struggling law enforcement agencies
maintain the necessary lifesaving bul-
letproof vests for each of their officers.
Making this important grant pro-
gram permanent is one of the most sen-
sible policies Congress can pursue. Ac-
cording to the Government Account-
ability Office, more than 3,000 law en-
forcement lives have been saved by ar-
mored vests since 1987.
But vests are costly, and they wear
out. Thankfully, this Federal program
has ensured our Nation’s police officers
are equipped with the latest tech-
nology to keep them safe.
For the last two decades, the pro-
gram has awarded more than 13,000 ju-
risdictions a total of $467 million in
matching Federal funds to help pur-
chase more than 1.3 million vests.
Mr. Speaker, we know that having
well-staffed, well-trained, and properly
equipped public safety departments is
critical to ensuring our communities
are safe. The importance of sustained
Federal funding on this front cannot be
overstated.
I am proud the House of Representa-
tives is considering this legislation
during National Police Week, as was
just mentioned. We mourned the loss of
158 law enforcement officers in 2018
who died in the line of duty, three of
whom served in New Jersey. At 53, this
was the deadliest year for law enforce-
ment officers being shot.
Ensuring more vests are in the field,
which can help reduce the statistics, is
our goal.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to take a
moment to recognize the three officers
from New Jersey who died while serv-
ing in the line of duty.
First was my friend from New Jersey,
Tamby Yagan of the Paterson Police
Department. With 13 years of service in
his hometown, Officer Yagan died in an
automobile crash while on duty on
April 22, 2018.
Lieutenant Christopher Robateau
from Jersey City passed on January 5,
2018, after being struck by a vehicle.
New Jersey State Police Trooper
Robert Emmet Nagle passed on Novem-
ber 26, 2018, because of 9/11-related ill-
ness.
Mr. Speaker, I grieve for their fami-
lies, as do you, and their loved ones. I
know this House does, too.
Our Nation’s local, State, and Fed-
eral law enforcement officers con-
stitute both the first and last lines of
protection for the American people.
These officers deserve our support, and
I am committed to ensuring that they
have the resources needed to protect
the public’s safety.
Congress has renewed the program
five times, most recently in 2016. The
current authorization expires next
year.
I especially thank Congressman
PETER KING from New York, who is al-
ways there on the firing line for our po-
lice officers. On every bill, on every
piece of legislation, he is there.
I also thank LINDSEY GRAHAM from
South Carolina and, of course, the
bill’s namesake, PATRICK LEAHY.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield the gentleman from New Jer-
sey an additional 1 minute.
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, this
bill has strong support from several
law enforcement groups, including the
National Sheriffs’ Association, the Fra-
ternal Order of Police, the National As-
sociation of Police Organizations, the
International Association of Chiefs of
Police, the Sergeants Benevolent Asso-
ciation, and the Major County Sheriffs’
Association.
I thank Chairman NADLER for allow-
ing our bill to be released.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in strongly supporting H.R.
2379.
b 1545
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I do appreciate this time. This is a
special week for me personally because
it is recognizing something that I grew
up with. It recognizes something that I
am that I can’t get a part of who I am.
And I appreciate Mr. PASCRELL, my
friend from New Jersey, talking about
this and what that actually means.
But for what I will just term as a
trooper’s kid, this week means a lot.
And it would mean even more when we
come here if really, we had had more to
do this week. I say that with respect,
and I say that with love, because this is
a good bill, and I urge everyone to sup-
port it, and I want to.
But just this past week, in Georgia,
just as was recommended and said in
New Jersey, just in the past few days in
Savannah, Georgia, we lost another of-
ficer, Sergeant Kelvin Ansari, in an in-
cident. He went to work and did not
come home.
For the past few years, I have been in
this body, and we have worked during
Police Week, even beforehand, to bring
up bills and to bring up issues that in-
volve our law enforcement community
because I recognize, and I know others
in this body do as well, that on those
mornings when they get up to go to
work, the ladies and gentlemen who
serve us in our law enforcement com-
munity, all of us, they are giving a gift
of life to go serve others.
And on many days, unfortunately,
the headlines will show to us that they
don’t return home; some through vio-
lence; some through activity; some, as
we have seen this past year in this
country, ambushed in front of their
own police departments; cruelly mur-
dered by those anarchists in this coun-
try who believe that the police are the
enemy; and sometimes, fed by others
who want a different version of what
upholding the law means. And that is
sad.
My heart breaks, because when those
officers don’t come home, there is a
space left at the table. There is a void
left in the hearts of families and com-
munities.
One of my earliest remembrances of
my dad as a trooper, and one of the big-
gest things that made an impression on
me, was years ago there was a trooper
who had made a stop on 129 South out
of Gainesville, Georgia, T.C. Dillard. As
he made that stop, a young man who
was not in his right mind through
drugs, came over a hill and hit him.
I remember hearing about it. I was
young at the time, and I remember him
being taken to the hospital. And I can
remember my dad and other officers all
going to the hospital, and they were
giving blood and doing whatever they
could. It was one of the first times I re-
member of my earliest remembrances
of watching my dad cry.
To a scrawny kid from north Geor-
gia, who had a dad, and has a dad who
is 6 feet 2 inches, 250 pounds, carried a
.357 on his hip, and wore the badge of
the Georgia State Patrol, he was and is
my hero. To see him cry was something
I had not experienced. To watch him
love another officer and do anything
for that officer is something that has
impacted me today.
As we move forward, and we look at
the things today, I guess my only
thing—and I wanted to spend just a few
more moments on this, because this is
our only chance. This is the only bill
that we have dealing with Law En-
forcement Week this week.
I know that we are busy in the Judi-
ciary Committee. I know that we have
got a lot of other things going on. I
know that we have so many things that
we need to investigate, and I get that.
I am not—for once, I am just hon-
estly speaking as much as a Congress-
man as I am as a trooper’s kid.
Thirty thousand officers will be com-
ing to Washington, D.C. over the next
few days to honor those who have fall-
en, and to remember this week. And
this bill, which is a good bill, is it. It is
all we are offering. It is all we are dis-
cussing.
In years past, in 2018, we had six bills,
including one rule bill. In 2017, nine
bills, including two rule bills. 2016,
eight bills, including two rule bills.
Protect and Serve, Thin Blue Line,
Probation Officer Protection Act of
2017, the Comprehensive Opioid and
Abuse Act, which gave our officers
training in how they can actually help
in an opioid crisis.
I understand that we have a lot going
on, but in our committee right now we
have H.R. 816, which would ensure cer-
tain law enforcement officers on col-
lege campuses and their families are el-
igible for death and disability benefits
under the Public Safety Officers Ben-
efit Program.
H.R. 816 is named in honor of Sean
Collier, a police officer at MIT who was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.035 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3753
May 14, 2019
murdered by one of the Tsarnaev
brothers after the attack at the Boston
Marathon. This is to make sure their
family has security.
Another bill from my committee col-
league, the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. RESCHENTHALER), is his aim
to prevent law enforcement suicides.
Other bills that we have pending for
law enforcement by helping them pro-
vide resources to combat opioid crisis
or curb sex trafficking. In years past,
we have considered numerous bills, not
all of them, in fact, most of them non-
controversial. But we didn’t seem to
have time to mark them up this year
or to bring them forward.
I understand, and I am trying my
best to just bring an honest concern,
because when you look at these offi-
cers—and I used to ride with them; as
I got older and I went to seminary and
I was a chaplain for the Gainesville Po-
lice Department—it never leaves you.
As I came here today, and I appre-
ciate my friend from Georgia, we have
shared so many things together, we
have done this, and Mr. PASCRELL and
others who have talked about this.
But this is it. This is our only chance
to actually say to these people—in-
stead of just saying we appreciate you;
we love you; and we are glad that you
do what you do and offer them help in
the things that they do, we offer them
bulletproof vests, which is good; but it
is all we are offering right now.
And I want to make sure, on this
floor, for those kids whose dads and
moms didn’t come home this past year,
just a reminder that it is not about
what we say to those officers, it is also
what we do.
I live each day, as best as I possibly
can, to do as best as I possibly can for
the ones who have given me so much;
my mom, who I lost last June, my dad,
who I still have, who taught me how to
grow up; how to love; how to care;
taught me to serve my country in the
military and to serve my country here.
But when I come to a discussion
today, and I heard my friend from New
Jersey so eloquently discuss those who
lost their lives in New Jersey and here
in Savannah, the one thing that gets
me up every morning, and if I have had
a bad day, or if I am thinking about it,
and when I hear all the discussion in
this country about officers who are
bad, or officers who are not doing it
right, and officers—I understand the
discussion that we need to have in our
communities, and how we need to come
together as communities to help each
other and to lift each other up, from
the poorest communities to the rich-
est; the police are there to take the
law. And if there are bad ones, they
need to be got out. But they are 99.99
percent good, who honestly just want
to do a good job, and we need to honor
that.
But when we talk about bulletproof
vests, when we talk about other issues
of how we care for officers, just remem-
ber those this week, especially those
who didn’t come home because, Mr.
Speaker, except by the grace of God, I
would have not known my father, be-
cause on a traffic stop, when I was still
a small child, he walked up to a car. He
caught a glint of a gun laying on the
shoulder of the driver. He, fortunately,
was able to pull his gun, and they stood
there for many minutes in a standoff
until the gentleman threw the gun out
of the car window. That incident al-
most deprived me of knowing my hero.
When we talk about police, when we
talk about law enforcement and the
other first responders on all sides, but
the police we are talking about today,
I just humbly believe that there is
more that we can do, and I look for-
ward to working with our committee
to do more throughout this year.
But on this week, it is worth pointing
out that these folks stand in the line,
many of them not sleeping while we
sleep, and they are worth protecting,
and they are worth more, frankly, than
this one bill; and I look forward to
working with my Democratic col-
leagues to make sure that we see more
come across this floor.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
This could not be a more solemn mo-
ment than what my friend from Geor-
gia just expressed to the Nation about
our State and local law enforcement
personnel, male, female, Black, White,
Latino, Asian, this legislation is an ef-
fort to protect them.
And I will note that there have not
been just one, but actually three
deaths of law enforcement officers al-
ready this year in the State of Georgia.
The numbers are up. It is very con-
cerning, and this is something that we
can do to help protect the lives of our
law enforcement officers.
I know that my friend from Georgia,
Representative COLLINS, has a long and
storied history of support for State and
local law enforcement, and I stand with
him in his concern, and I stand with
him in his support for this very impor-
tant legislation that my friend, BILL
PASCRELL, has introduced.
I will note that a lot of little boys
and girls who first go into law enforce-
ment, they go into local and State law
enforcement, and then they are able to
attain their ultimate dream, which is
to become an FBI agent.
FBI agents are Federal law enforce-
ment agents. They are sworn to protect
and serve; they wear a gun, and they
wake up every morning not knowing
what they will face during that day.
Some have given their lives in the ulti-
mate sacrifice for this Nation.
So, in addition to our State and local
law enforcement agents, we, today, up-
hold our Federal law enforcement
agents who work for the various Fed-
eral law enforcement agencies, includ-
ing the FBI, with its storied history of
integrity.
So, it is not about what we say; it is
about what we do. It is about what we
say also, because what we say has an
impact on those who serve us. And we
cannot, because of one or two outliers,
indict the entire State or local law en-
forcement agency for the imperfections
of the few; nor can we do so with our
Federal law enforcement agencies, par-
ticularly our premier Federal law en-
forcement agency, the FBI.
I support the FBI. I support our State
and local law enforcement agencies.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY).
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 2379, which will per-
manently reauthorize the Bulletproof
Vest Partnership program.
I want to particularly thank Mr.
PASCRELL, as well as Mr. KING, for tak-
ing the lead on this very important leg-
islation.
In 1997, I co-authored the original
legislation to create the Bulletproof
Vest Partnership program with the
gentleman who originated the idea for
this legislation, and who was the origi-
nal cosponsor, our good friend, former
colleague, Representative Frank LoBi-
ondo, from the State of New Jersey; he
had been active over the last 22 years
in having the act reauthorized, which
is why I strongly support this bill to
add permanence to it.
As has been mentioned during the de-
bate, there have been over 13,000 juris-
dictions who have been helped. I rep-
resent the First Congressional District
in Indiana, and in Fiscal Year 2018 the
Bulletproof Vest Partnership program
provided $80,738 to local law enforce-
ment in Northwest Indiana. This as-
sisted in the purchase of about 200 new
vests for officers who are protecting
our communities.
Mr. Speaker, I stand here to reiterate
my strong support for this legislation,
and I ask my colleagues to support it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I am almost at the end, but as I was
finishing up—and I appreciate the gen-
tleman from Georgia’s words, and I
agree that we can—but I would be re-
miss if I didn’t share what I just got in
my inbox. I just got this in my inbox.
It is a letter signed by my chairman
of my committee and four other mem-
bers of our committee on Police Week.
After I just talked about how we can do
more, this is what we are doing more.
‘‘As you know, the House Judiciary
Committee exercises legislative and
oversight jurisdiction in the areas of
civil rights and criminal law enforce-
ment. These areas continue to be sub-
jects of intense national concern in the
wake of high-profile incidents involv-
ing the fatal use of force by law en-
forcement against unarmed people in
cities such as Ferguson, Baltimore,
Cleveland, Chicago, Falcon Heights,
Tulsa, Pittsburgh, and Dallas. In 2018,
992 people were shot and killed by po-
lice. In the first 2 months of this year,
at least 265 people have suffered the
same fate.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.036 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3754 May 14, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I include the May 14,
2019, letter in the RECORD.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, May 14, 2019.
Hon. WILLIAM P. BARR,
Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice,
Washington, DC.
DEAR ATTORNEY GENERAL BARR: As you
know, the House Judiciary Committee exer-
cises legislative and oversight jurisdiction in
areas of civil rights and criminal law en-
forcement. These areas continue to be sub-
jects of intense national concern in the wake
of high-profile incidents involving the fatal
use of force by law enforcement against un-
armed people in cities such as Ferguson, Bal-
timore, Cleveland, Chicago, Falcon Heights,
Tulsa, Pittsburgh, and Dallas, In 2018, 992
people were shot and killed by police. ‘‘In the
first two months of this year, at least 265
people have suffered the same fate.‘‘
Despite continuing concerns from civil
rights and community-based organizations,
the Department has sharply curtailed its
statutory role in identifying and eradicating
civil rights abuses by law enforcement. Ex-
cessive force in police-civilian encounters
presents a crisis of trust throughout our na-
tion. Changes to Department policy and fail-
ure to uphold the law run the risk of under-
mining federal oversight authority in this
space.
Congress identified the need for the De-
partment and community stakeholders to
play a role in eliminating unjust and dis-
criminatory practices by law enforcement.
With that goal in mind, Congress has pro-
vided the Department with the authority to
identify and eliminate patterns and prac-
tices of unconstitutional conduct in law en-
forcement agencies through civil action and
administrative authority. Additionally, it
provided the Department the ability to en-
courage communities to have a voice in how
they are policed through programs offered by
the Community Oriented Policing Services
or ‘‘COPS Office.’’ These tools must be used
to promote Constitutional poJicing practices
that support public safety and respect civil
rights and civil liberties.
Accordingly, we write to request informa-
tion related to the manner in which the De-
partment of Justice is currently carrying
out its statutory responsibilities to elimi-
nate patterns and practices of unconstitu-
tional conduct in law enforcement agencies.
We respectfully request you provide com-
plete responses and produce the relevant doc-
uments and communications listed below by
no later than June 5, 2019:
1. Documents and communications dated
from January 1, 2017 to March 31, 2017, relat-
ing to Attorney General Sessions’s March 31,
2017 Memorandum, ‘‘Supporting Federal,
State, Local, and Tribal Law Enforcement.’’
This should include any prior drafts of the
memorandum. Please include a list identi-
fying all individuals involved in the decision
to conduct the review of ‘‘existing or con-
templated consent decrees.’’
2. Documents and communications dated
from January 1, 2017 to November 7, 2018, re-
lating to Attorney General Sessions’s No-
vember 7, 2018 Memorandum ‘‘Principles and
Procedures for Civil Consent Decrees and
Settlement Agreements with State and
Local Government Entities.’’ This should in-
clude any prior drafts of the memorandum.
Please include a list identifying all individ-
uals involved in the decision to identify
issues arising from the Department’s ‘‘civil
action[s] against a state or local government
. . . by consent decree or settlement agree-
ment.’’
3. Documents and communications dated
from January 1, 2017 to November 21, 2018,
from or to the Acting Associate Attorney
General Jesse Panuccio and Deputy Asso-
ciate Attorney General Stephen Cox con-
cerning the Department’s recession or with-
drawal of policies, procedures, and guidance
issued by the Civil Rights Division, the Of-
fice of Justice Programs, the COPS Office,
and the Office of Violence Against Women.
4. Please provide copies of any standards or
guidelines, by which the Department identi-
fies potential patterns or practices of con-
duct by law enforcement agencies that de-
prive persons of rights, privileges, or immu-
nities secured or protected by the Constitu-
tion or laws of the United States.
5. Documents and communications dated
from January 1, 2017 to the date of this let-
ter, identifying any Department-negotiated
consent decree, authorized under 34 U.S.C.
Section 12601 (b), that has ‘‘deprived the
elected representatives of the people of any
affected jurisdiction of control over their
government.’’
6. Documents and communications dated
from January 1, 2017 to the date of this let-
ter, identifying any Department-negotiated
consent decree, authorized under 34 U.S.C.
Section 12601 (b), that has subjected a law
enforcement agency to ongoing court over-
sight after the Department determined that
the purpose of the consent decree had been
achieved.
7. Documents and Communications dated
from January 1, 2017 to the date of this let-
ter, from non-government organizations re-
lating to the Department’s review of existing
or proposed consent decrees or reform agree-
ments pursuant to the Attorney General’s
March 31, 2017 Memorandum.
8. Documents and communications dated
from November 7, 2018 to the date of this let-
ter, relating to updating standards or guide-
lines used to identify patterns and practices
of discriminations by state or local law en-
forcement agencies. This response should in-
clude how complaints against recipients of
federal financial assistance from the Office
of Justice Programs, other grant making
agencies, and participants in the Asset For-
feiture Program are centrally accounted for
or tabulated and considered in opening inves-
tigations into alleged discriminatory pat-
terns and practices by law enforcement agen-
cy.
9. Copies of standards or guidelines in force
as of January 1, 2017, that the Department
uses to determine whether the Attorney
General has reasonable cause to believe that
a violation of 34 U.S.C. Section 1260l(a) has
occurred.
10. Documents and communications dated
from November 7, 2018 to the date of this let-
ter, relating to updating guidelines or stand-
ards used to determine whether the Attorney
General has reasonable cause to believe that
a violation of 34 U.S.C. Section 1260l(a) has
occurred.
11. Copies of any evidence-based study,
analysis, or report supporting the decision to
adopt the general statement of principles as
memorialized in the Attorney General’s No-
vember 7, 2018 Memorandum.
12. Documents and communications dated
from January 1, 2018 to the date of this let-
ter, relating to proposed changes to the ex-
isting memorandums of understanding or
agreement, resolution agreements, or con-
sent decrees, including but not limited to the
matters open in Baltimore, Chicago, and
Ferguson.
13. Total number of preliminary inquiries
and investigations of law enforcement agen-
cies opened, initiated, or given a case or
other tracking number by the Civil Rights
Division or civil rights matters opened by
the Office of Justice Programs after January
1, 2017. Please include a list identifying each
law enforcement agency subject to a prelimi-
nary investigation or inquiry after January
1, 2017, and a brief description of the basis for
the preliminary investigation or inquiry.
14. Total number of preliminary inquiries
or investigations of law enforcement agen-
cies closed after March 31, 2017. Please in-
clude a list identifying the date each case
was closed, the identity of the law enforce-
ment agency subject of the preliminary in-
quiry or investigation, and a brief descrip-
tion of the basis for closing the preliminary
investigation or inquiry.
15. Total number of complaints, referrals,
or multi-party complaints received by the
Department after January 1, 2017, from a fed-
eral, state, or local public official relating to
potential pattern or practice violations by a
law enforcement agency. Please provide brief
descriptions of each referral or complaint.
16. Documents and communications dated
from February 9, 2017 to the date of this let-
ter, relating to modifications of existing
agreements for technical assistance with law
enforcement agencies, COPS Office proposed
budget, or changes to existing Department
guidelines or standards relating to the ad-
ministration of the Collaborative Reform
Initiative for Technical Assistance.
17. Total number of requests, including any
memorandums or communications dated
after January 1, 2017 to the date of this let-
ter, to open investigations of law enforce-
ment agency officers or agencies from the
Special Litigation Section to the Assistant
Attorney General for Civil Rights under sec-
tion 12601.
18. Documents or Communications dated
from January 1, 2017 to the date of this let-
ter, related to the review and decision to re-
treat from the agreement in principle with
the Chicago Police Department and Chicago,
including any review or analysis of the find-
ings by the AG and his office of evidence of
constitutional violations presented in the
findings letter dated January 3, 2017.
19. An account of open investigations alleg-
ing an unlawful pattern and practice or dis-
parate impact involving law enforcement
agencies and explanation of what steps the
Department has taken to withdraw federal
funding of law enforcement agencies that are
subject to the grant conditions pursuant to
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968. In your response,
please address the Department’s investiga-
tions of the Springfield, Massachusetts Po-
lice Department, the Alabama Law Enforce-
ment Agency, and the Orange County Dis-
trict Attorney’s Office and Sheriffs Depart-
ment.
Thank you for your prompt attention on
this matter. We look forward to working
more closely with your office in the 116th
Congress.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, House Com-
mittee on the Judici-
ary.
KAREN BASS,
Chairwoman, Sub-
committee on Crime,
Terrorism, and
Homeland Security,
House Committee on
the Judiciary.
MARY GAY SCANLON,
Vice Chair, House
Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
STEVE COHEN,
Chairman, Sub-
committee on Con-
stitution, Civil
Rights, and Civil
Liberties, House
Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:46 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.038 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3755
May 14, 2019
SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
Member of Congress.
b 1600
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Are you
kidding me? We couldn’t wait a week?
Look, vote for this bill. This bill is a
good bill. But this shows the dedication
of the majority to Police Week right
here. It is about what my chairman of
the committee did. It is about what we
say and what we do. This is what we
did.
On the first part of Police Week, we
sent to the Attorney General a discus-
sion about people who are shot by po-
lice, many of which in no context here
of how the accidents occurred or how it
occurred or what was actually hap-
pening; it is just that we need to go in-
vestigate, a 4-, 5-page letter.
Vote for the bill. The bill is a good
bill.
This letter is embarrassing.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, how much time is remaining for
both sides?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) has
61⁄2 minutes remaining. The gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS) has 61⁄2
minutes remaining.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I am ready to close, and I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Again, I will come back to the issue.
This bulletproof vest bill is a great bill.
It needs to be permanent. In fact, if we
can do better, it would be great. We
need to do more.
I made my point about this letter,
and, unfortunately, this is a stain on
Police Week, and hopefully we can do
better, and I know we will.
I trust my friend from Georgia. I
trust my friend from New Jersey. We
can do this, and we can do this better.
I am sorry that this is the way it has
had to start, but actions do speak loud-
er than anything else, than words, like
I said, and this is an action on Police
Week that, frankly, is unbelievable.
Support this underlying bill. Support
this bill for bulletproof vests. Support
our officers not just with words, but
with actions as well, and I know the
Members here on this floor are doing
that. It is just a shame that this had to
come out with that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
The top law enforcement individual
in the country is the Attorney General,
and our Attorney General has declared
war on the FBI by ordering a third in-
vestigation into the origins of the
Mueller investigation. This is nothing
more than an attack on our own pre-
mier law enforcement agency. It is pol-
itics reduced to its lowest level at the
same time as Police Week is occurring.
What does it say to those down the
line, to those aspiring boys and girls
who aspire to be FBI agents?
What does it say to the men and
women who are currently in law en-
forcement and looking to move into
Federal law enforcement?
Well, it doesn’t tell them to not as-
pire to that height. I think most look
beyond the politics of the day, and
when they consider the legislation that
is at hand, they support it without re-
gard to political persuasion. They sup-
port the fact that H.R. 2379, introduced
by my friend BILL PASCRELL, is a testa-
ment to the important role that Con-
gress plays in promoting officer safety
today and for decades to come.
In passing this bill during Police
Week, we acknowledge the many con-
tributions that law enforcement offi-
cers make to public safety, and we
thank them for their service. We also
recognize that there are challenges
within law enforcement that we must
weed out and that are an affront to the
ideals that law enforcement officers
are taught to adhere to, and we must
do that, as well.
But today it is not about that. Today
it is about bulletproof vests for our law
enforcement officers on the State and
local level. We will make sure that our
Federal officers are always protected,
but today it is about State and local
law enforcement agents and agencies,
particularly those that cannot afford
to purchase these bulletproof vests or
to keep current in terms of these vests
when they wear out.
They do wear out, and they have to
be replaced, and they have to have
money to do that. This bill will enable
$30 million per year to be permanently
authorized. I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHN-
SON) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 2379, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, on that, I demand the yeas and
nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
FIRST RESPONDER ACCESS TO
INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES ACT
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 1594) to
amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to establish a process to review ap-
plications for certain grants to pur-
chase equipment or systems that do
not meet or exceed any applicable na-
tional voluntary consensus standards,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1594
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘First Re-
sponder Access to Innovative Technologies
Act’’.
SEC. 2. APPROVAL OF CERTAIN EQUIPMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2008 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 609) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (f)—
(A) by striking ‘‘If an applicant’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) APPLICATION REQUIREMENT.—If an ap-
plicant’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(2) REVIEW PROCESS.—The Administrator
shall implement a uniform process for re-
viewing applications that, in accordance
with paragraph (1), contain explanations to
use grants provided under section 2003 or 2004
to purchase equipment or systems that do
not meet or exceed any applicable national
voluntary consensus standards developed
under section 647 of the Post-Katrina Emer-
gency Management Reform Act of 2006 (6
U.S.C. 747).
‘‘(3) FACTORS.—In carrying out the review
process under paragraph (2), the Adminis-
trator shall consider the following:
‘‘(A) Current or past use of proposed equip-
ment or systems by Federal agencies or the
Armed Forces.
‘‘(B) The absence of a national voluntary
consensus standard for such equipment or
systems.
‘‘(C) The existence of an international con-
sensus standard for such equipment or sys-
tems, and whether such equipment or sys-
tems meets such standard.
‘‘(D) The nature of the capability gap iden-
tified by the applicant and how such equip-
ment or systems will address such gap.
‘‘(E) The degree to which such equipment
or systems will serve the needs of the appli-
cant better than equipment or systems that
meet or exceed existing consensus standards.
‘‘(F) Any other factor determined appro-
priate by the Administrator.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(g) REVIEW PROCESS.—The Administrator
shall implement a uniform process for re-
viewing applications to use grants provided
under section 2003 or 2004 to purchase equip-
ment or systems not included on the Author-
ized Equipment List maintained by the Ad-
ministrator.’’.
(b) INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.—Not later
than three years after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Inspector General of
the Department of Homeland Security shall
submit to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate a report as-
sessing the implementation of the review
process established under paragraph (2) of
subsection (f) of section 2008 of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (as added by subsection
(a) of this section), including information on
the following:
(1) The number of requests to purchase
equipment or systems that do not meet or
exceed any applicable consensus standard
evaluated under such review process.
(2) The capability gaps identified by appli-
cants and the number of such requests grant-
ed or denied.
(3) The processing time for the review of
such requests.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.016 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3756 May 14, 2019
New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL) and
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that all Members may have 5 legisla-
tive days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1594, the First Responder Ac-
cess to Innovative Technologies Act.
Our Nation’s first responders put
their lives on the line to ensure all of
us are safe. These brave women and
men should have access to the equip-
ment they need to protect lives and
property around the country.
One of the Department of Homeland
Security’s most important missions is
to help ensure the effectiveness of our
Nation’s emergency services sector.
Key avenues for such support are the
Department’s counterterrorism grant
programs: the Urban Area Security Ini-
tiative and the State Homeland Secu-
rity Grant Program.
Unfortunately, the grant guidance
for these grant programs sometimes
hinders first responders’ ability to ac-
quire innovative counterterrorism
equipment. Today, each piece of equip-
ment must meet or exceed national
voluntary consensus standards.
Although FEMA will review requests
to purchase equipment that does not
meet consensus standards, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security has
learned from stakeholders that the
process lacks uniformity, predict-
ability, and transparency. The process
for developing voluntary consensus
standards for first responder equipment
has not kept pace with the evolution of
technology or the demands of first re-
sponders.
H.R. 1594 would direct FEMA to im-
plement a standard process for review-
ing applications to purchase equipment
that do not meet consensus standards
or for equipment not included on
FEMA’s authorized equipment list.
H.R. 1594 seeks to ensure that the safe-
ty of our first responders remains a top
priority.
As today’s threats faced by first re-
sponders are constantly evolving, it is
important that our technology evolve,
too. Enactment of H.R. 1594 will help
ensure first responders can do their job
more safely and effectively.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself as much time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1594, the First Responder Ac-
cess to Innovative Technologies Act.
With threats to our communities
constantly evolving, it is reassuring to
see the emergence of new technologies
ready to meet the new challenges.
However, emerging technology is fre-
quently developed faster than vol-
untary consensus standards can be im-
plemented.
Recipients of grants under FEMA’s
State Homeland Security Grant Pro-
gram and Urban Area Security Initia-
tive must procure equipment that
meets these standards. This can be
problematic when first responders seek
to use grant funds to acquire new and
innovative technology that does not
meet or exceed any applicable national
voluntary consensus standard.
Unfortunately, if a grant recipient
would like to use grant funds to pur-
chase such equipment, FEMA does not
maintain a uniform process for review-
ing these applications. H.R. 1594 re-
quires FEMA to develop such a process
for reviewing these requests.
This legislation also directs FEMA to
implement a uniform process for re-
viewing applications to purchase equip-
ment not included on the authorized
equipment list maintained by FEMA.
It is imperative that we listen to
those in the emergency services sector
and help enable them to acquire the
tools that they need to save American
lives and keep us safe. We must em-
power them to acquire the equipment
they need for their jobs and provide
them with a uniform process to do so.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill and I
support our first responders. These
brave men and women run into danger
as everyone else runs away from it. We
owe it to them to create processes that
make their jobs and their lives easier.
They have our backs on our worst days.
We should have their backs on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance
of my time.
Mr. Speaker, by passing this bill
today, we can ensure first responders
have a reliable and uniform process for
acquiring technologies and equipment
that will keep them and our commu-
nities safe. The House unanimously
passed previous versions of this bill in
the prior two Congresses.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support me in passing this legislation
today. As the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania said, they have our backs, we
should have their backs.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. TORRES SMALL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 1594.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
b 1615
TRANSIT SECURITY GRANT
PROGRAM FLEXIBILITY ACT
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 1313) to
amend the Implementing Rec-
ommendations of the 9/11 Commission
Act of 2007 to clarify certain allowable
uses of funds for public transportation
security assistance grants and estab-
lish periods of performance for such
grants, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1313
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Transit Se-
curity Grant Program Flexibility Act’’.
SEC. 2. ALLOWABLE USES OF FUNDS FOR PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION SECURITY AS-
SISTANCE GRANTS.
Subparagraph (A) of section 1406(b)(2) of
the Implementing Recommendations of the
9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (6 U.S.C.
1135(b)(2); Public Law 110–53) is amended by
inserting ‘‘and associated backfill’’ after ‘‘se-
curity training’’.
SEC. 3. PERIODS OF PERFORMANCE FOR PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION SECURITY AS-
SISTANCE GRANTS.
Section 1406 of the Implementing Rec-
ommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of
2007 (6 U.S.C. 1135; Public Law 110–53) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (m) as sub-
section (n); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (l) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(m) PERIODS OF PERFORMANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), funds provided pursuant to a
grant awarded under this section for a use
specified in subsection (b) shall remain avail-
able for use by a grant recipient for a period
of not fewer than 36 months.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Funds provided pursuant
to a grant awarded under this section for a
use specified in subparagraph (M) or (N) of
subsection (b)(1) shall remain available for
use by a grant recipient for a period of not
fewer than 55 months.’’.
SEC. 4. GAO REVIEW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct a review
of the public transportation security assist-
ance grant program under section 1406 of the
Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (6 U.S.C. 1135; Public
Law 110–53).
(b) SCOPE.—The review required under
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the type of projects
funded under the public transportation secu-
rity grant program referred to in such para-
graph.
(2) An assessment of the manner in which
such projects address threats to public trans-
portation infrastructure.
(3) An assessment of the impact, if any, of
this Act (including the amendments made by
this Act) on types of projects funded under
the public transportation security assistance
grant program.
(4) An assessment of the management and
administration of public transportation se-
curity assistance grant program funds by
grantees.
(5) Recommendations to improve the man-
ner in which public transportation security
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.041 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3757
May 14, 2019
assistance grant program funds address
vulnerabilities in public transportation in-
frastructure.
(6) Recommendations to improve the man-
agement and administration of the public
transportation security assistance grant pro-
gram.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act and
again not later than five years after such
date of enactment, the Comptroller General
shall submit to the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report
on the review required under this section.
SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the Committee on the Budget of the House of
Representatives, provided that such state-
ment has been submitted prior to the vote on
passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL) and
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that all Members may have 5 legisla-
tive days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1313, the Transit Security
Grant Program Flexibility Act.
Securing our Nation’s transit sys-
tems is critical to keeping our country
safe. Transportation systems are vital
to the economic and social lives of ev-
eryday people all around the country.
The emergence of so-called ‘‘lone wolf’’
domestic terrorists pose a threat to
these critical systems and the people
that use them.
In response to this and other threats
to our surface transportation systems,
Congress established the Transpor-
tation Security Grant Program to help
State and local authorities enhance the
security of their systems. By all ac-
counts, the Transportation Security
Grant Program is making a difference.
However, increasingly, we have heard
that some of the aspects of this pro-
gram need refinement for it to live up
to its full potential. Specifically, the
Committee on Homeland Security has
received testimony from grant recipi-
ents that the period of performance is
too short, especially when they are try-
ing to undertake long-term security
projects.
H.R. 1313 addresses these concerns
and makes the program more flexible
by lengthening the period of perform-
ance for these grants. With flexibility
in mind, the bill also allows for the
funding in this program to be used for
backfilling officers to allow for secu-
rity training.
Finally, it mandates a report by the
Government Accountability Office on
the Transportation Security Grant
Program, including recommendations
to improve the grant program. These
commonsense fixes will increase the ef-
ficacy of the Transportation Security
Grant Program to help bolster pre-
paredness and response within our
transportation systems.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my House col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1313, the Transit Security
Grant Program Flexibility Act.
The Transit Security Grant Program
directly supports transportation infra-
structure security activities by pro-
viding funds to owners and operators of
transit systems. Whether they be bus
systems, ferries, or passenger rail, this
grant program aims to protect and in-
crease the resilience of critical surface
transportation infrastructure and the
traveling public from acts of terrorism.
H.R. 1313 codifies the performance pe-
riod for use of grant funds and allows
additional time for large-scale capital
security projects. This bill also allows
grant recipients to use their awards to
pay for the cost of backfilling per-
sonnel attending necessary security
training.
This important legislation, intro-
duced by my colleague on the Home-
land Security Committee, Congress-
man PETE KING, will further assist in
keeping our communities safe against
the threat of terrorism.
Mr. Speaker, I support this legisla-
tion, and I urge my colleagues to join
me in doing so.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers,
and I am prepared to close after the
gentleman from Pennsylvania closes.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. KING).
Mr. KING of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I thank Mr. JOYCE for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of my legislation, H.R. 1313,
the Transit Security Grant Program
Flexibility Act.
The Transit Security Grant Program
provides needed funds to transit agen-
cies to protect critical surface trans-
portation infrastructure and the trav-
eling public from acts of terrorism.
With billions of riders using surface
transportation annually, and limited
security screening, it should come as
no surprise that surface transportation
has been, and continues to be, a terror
target.
We have witnessed multiple attacks
overseas: the bombings of commuter
trains in Madrid, the metro station
bombing in Brussels, the bombing of
the tube in London.
In New York, we saw, in 2019, there
was an attempted liquid explosive at-
tack, which, if successful, would have
killed many, many hundreds.
And then, soon after that, there was
a planned attack against the Long Is-
land Railroad, in my own district, car-
ried out by Bryant Neal Vinas, who was
then in Afghanistan plotting the at-
tack.
And more recently and much closer
to home, we witnessed the 2017 New
York Port Authority bombing, which
the Speaker is well aware of, involving
our city.
With the continual calls from ISIS
and other extremist groups for lone-
wolf attacks to target crowded areas,
we must ensure the first responders
and transit agencies have the tools
needed to secure our transit systems.
Based on previous work done by the
subcommittee under the leadership of
my good friend Congressman Dan
Donovan, we learned of the challenges
associated with the fluctuating period
of performance for Transit Security
Grant Program projects, especially for
completing vital large-scale capital se-
curity projects.
The Transit Security Grant Program
Flexibility Act addresses this chal-
lenge by codifying the period of per-
formance for this grant program at 36
months for the majority of eligible
projects. It also extends the period of
performance for large-scale projects to
55 months. This ensures that these
major projects can be successfully
completed in the allotted time.
Transit security grant program
awards can be used to provide per-
sonnel with essential security training.
However, recipients of these awards are
not currently permitted to use the
grant program funds to pay for back-
filling personnel attending such train-
ing, which may, in turn, inhibit some
transit agencies from sending their
staff to vital security training.
H.R. 1313 will permit Transit Secu-
rity Grant Program funds to be used
for this purpose, consistent with other
homeland security grant programs.
Given the evolving threat landscape,
it is imperative that the Transit Secu-
rity Grant Program provide flexible so-
lutions for grant recipients. It is of the
utmost importance that transit agen-
cies have the ability to enhance the
protection of these soft targets and
crowded places to keep everyday com-
muters safe.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my staff, par-
ticularly, Diana Bergwin, for their
hard work.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
join in supporting H.R. 1313.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.009 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3758 May 14, 2019
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, today, the Transportation
Security Grant Program is a meaning-
ful tool to help communities improve
the safety of our surface infrastruc-
ture, but, as discussed, there are areas
where it could be improved. H.R. 1313
seeks to do just that.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman
KING for his bipartisan work on this
legislation.
Before I yield back, I would like to
note that this legislation is identical
to a measure that the House approved
last Congress by a voice vote on Janu-
ary 31, 2017.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 1313, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. TORRES SMALL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 1313, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SECURING DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY FIREARMS
ACT OF 2019
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 1437) to
amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to require the Under Secretary for
Management of the Department of
Homeland Security to achieve security
of sensitive assets among the compo-
nents of the Department of Homeland
Security, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1437
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Securing De-
partment of Homeland Security Firearms
Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘Securing DHS Firearms
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’
means the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(2) LOST.—The term ‘‘lost’’ includes loss by
theft.
(3) SENSITIVE ASSETS.—The term ‘‘sensitive
assets’’ means any asset, regardless of
value—
(A) that the Department of Homeland Se-
curity issues to a Department employee; and
(B) that either the Under Secretary for
Management of the Department or a compo-
nent head determines requires special con-
trol and accounting.
(4) UNDER SECRETARY FOR MANAGEMENT.—
The term ‘‘Under Secretary for Manage-
ment’’ means the Under Secretary for Man-
agement of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity.
SEC. 3. INCLUSION OF SECURING FIREARMS AND
OTHER SENSITIVE ASSETS IN RE-
SPONSIBILITIES OF UNDER SEC-
RETARY FOR MANAGEMENT.
Section 701 of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(6), by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding firearms and other sensitive assets)’’
after ‘‘equipment’’;
(2) by redesignating the second subsection
(e) (relating to the definition of interoper-
able communications) as subsection (f); and
(3) by amending such redesignated sub-
section (f) to read as follows:
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) INTEROPERABLE COMMUNICATIONS.—The
term ‘interoperable communications’ has the
meaning given such term in section 7303(g) of
the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Pre-
vention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 194(g)).
‘‘(2) SENSITIVE ASSETS.—The term ‘sen-
sitive assets’ means any asset, regardless of
value—
‘‘(A) that the Department issues to a De-
partment employee; and
‘‘(B) that either the Under Secretary for
Management of the Department or a compo-
nent head determines requires special con-
trol and accounting.’’.
SEC. 4. MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE.
(a) SAFEGUARDING FIREARMS AND SENSITIVE
ASSETS DIRECTIVE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Under Secretary for Management shall
develop and disseminate a Department-wide
directive for achieving adequate security
over firearms and other sensitive assets
across the Department.
(2) CONTENTS.—The directive required
under subsection (a) shall, at a minimum, in-
clude the following:
(A) Descriptions of what equipment, in ad-
dition to firearms, is classified as a sensitive
asset for the purpose of carrying out this
Act.
(B) Requirements for securing Department-
issued firearms and other sensitive assets.
(C) A classification system for all cat-
egories of Department-issued badges and cor-
responding requirements for safeguarding
such assets.
(D) Reporting requirements for lost fire-
arms and other sensitive assets, including
timelines for such reporting, to supervisors,
local law enforcement, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s National Crime Information
Center, and Department headquarters.
(E) Recordkeeping requirements for lost
firearms and other sensitive assets in inven-
tory systems, including a timeline for re-
cording such losses.
(3) REVIEW AND UPDATE OF DIRECTIVE.—Not
later than one year after the issuance of the
directive required under subsection (a), the
Under Secretary for Management shall re-
view and update, as necessary, such direc-
tive, including adding a requirement relating
to recording in the inventory systems main-
tained by each component of the Department
the acceptance or transfer of a firearm or
other sensitive asset by such component.
(b) PERSONAL PROPERTY ASSET MANAGE-
MENT PROGRAM MANUAL.—Together with the
issuance of the directive pursuant to sub-
section (a), the Under Secretary for Manage-
ment shall disseminate a revised version of
the Personal Property Asset Management
Program Manual that includes the following:
(1) Requirements for component heads to
develop procedures to safeguard firearms and
other sensitive assets during on and off-duty
time.
(2) Requirements for the issuance of safety
locking devices and policies on the use of
such assets, as applicable.
(3) Requirements for initial, recurrent, and
remedial training on safeguarding such as-
sets.
(4) Examples, with detail, of how to report
and record lost sensitive assets across com-
ponents of the Department, and an enforce-
ment mechanism to ensure supervisors main-
tain such records.
(5) A requirement that the file maintained
on a lost firearm or other sensitive asset
contains both the corresponding police re-
port and the Department report detailing the
circumstances surrounding such loss, includ-
ing information on adherence to safe-
guarding procedures.
SEC. 5. COMPONENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
Department component heads shall—
(1) comply with Federal law, Federal regu-
lations, executive branch guidance, and De-
partment policy, including directives re-
quired by this Act, relating to the manage-
ment and oversight of securing firearms and
other sensitive assets;
(2) review the need for non-law enforce-
ment badges;
(3) require component personnel to safe-
guard firearms and other sensitive assets in
accordance with the directive issued by the
Under Secretary for Management under sec-
tion 4;
(4) require that component personnel ad-
here to the procedures and timelines for
properly reporting to supervisors lost fire-
arms and other sensitive assets;
(5) require that lost firearms and other
sensitive assets are reported to local law en-
forcement, the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion’s National Crime Information Center,
and Department headquarters in the time-
frame established in such directive; and
(6) require that lost firearms and other
sensitive assets are recorded in inventory
systems in the timeframe established by
such directive.
SEC. 6. INSPECTOR GENERAL REVIEW.
The Inspector General of the Department
of Homeland Security shall, on an ongoing
basis, review implementation of this Act
and, not later than 180 days after issuance of
the directive under section 4, submit to the
Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate a review of the progress
and effectiveness of such directive, including
an assessment of the adequacy of such direc-
tive, as well as the level of compliance
among the components of the Department to
achieve adequate security of sensitive assets
across Department components.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL) and
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that all Members may have 5 legisla-
tive days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this measure
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1437, the Securing DHS Firearms Act of
2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.045 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3759
May 14, 2019
Mr. Speaker, this bill, authored by
Mr. CORREA of California, would re-
quire the Department of Homeland Se-
curity to take action to safeguard sen-
sitive assets, such as firearms, badges,
and immigration stamps.
According to the DHS Office of In-
spector General, during a 3-year period
between fiscal years 2014 and 2016, the
Department lost track of more than
2,000 highly sensitive assets. Failing to
safeguard these assets puts the public
at risk.
This legislation, if enacted, would re-
quire the DHS under secretary for
management to issue a department-
wide directive for securing firearms,
immigration stamps, badges, and other
sensitive assets with reporting require-
ments for any assets that are lost or
stolen.
It is a commonsense measure the
House passed by voice vote a little over
1 year ago.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage this Cham-
ber to again support this legislation
and help safeguard the Department’s
most sensitive assets.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1437, the Securing DHS Fire-
arms Act of 2019. This bill makes some
much-needed improvements to address
the security of firearms at the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
A DHS Office of Inspector General re-
port from October of 2017 found that
the DHS and component personnel mis-
placed over 2,100 highly sensitive as-
sets, including 228 firearms, and 1,889
badges between the fiscal years of 2014
and 2016.
The statistics from the OIG report
and the lack of accountability for DHS
personnel that fail to safeguard sen-
sitive assets is startling. DHS performs
a critical national security mission. It
is unacceptable that DHS has defi-
ciencies in the training personnel re-
ceive on how to properly safeguard and
track sensitive assets like firearms.
H.R. 1437 follows the recommenda-
tions made by the OIG in its report and
requires the under secretary of man-
agement at DHS to issue a directive to
ensure the Department and its compo-
nents adequately safeguard sensitive
assets.
H.R. 1437 also mandates DHS to re-
vise its Personal Property Asset Man-
agement Program Manual to require
recurrent training and appropriate pro-
cedures to secure assets in accordance
with the DHS directive.
The Securing DHS Firearms Act of
2019 puts into place important steps to
ensure that DHS is appropriately safe-
guarding sensitive assets while con-
ducting its critical mission. This
much-needed bill is identical to legisla-
tion passed in the 115th Congress by a
voice vote.
Mr. Speaker, I commend Representa-
tive CORREA for introducing this legis-
lation, and I urge all Members to join
me in supporting this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1630
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from California (Mr.
CORREA).
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, the Department of
Homeland Security has grown into the
Nation’s largest Federal law enforce-
ment agency. More than 60,000 law en-
forcement officers within DHS are en-
trusted with securing our country as
well as maintaining and safeguarding
sensitive law enforcement equipment,
such as firearms, ammunition, and
badges.
In 2010, DHS’ Office of Inspector Gen-
eral reported 289 firearms issued to
DHS officers were lost between 2006 and
2008. By 2017, when the inspector gen-
eral did a follow-up review, it found
that 228 firearms, 1,900 badges, and 2,100
sensitive assets were either lost or sto-
len between 2014 and 2016.
Just last winter, ICE realized that it
had more ammunition than it was
tracking. CNN reported on 70 cases
where Federal air marshals lost or mis-
placed their weapons, including leaving
firearms in airport bathrooms.
Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago, a con-
stituent from my home State of Cali-
fornia, Antonio Ramos, 27 years old,
was fatally shot with a 9-millimeter
pistol stolen from a DHS officer. This
is tragic and unacceptable, and we can
do better.
The inspector general identified the
absence of a Department-wide directive
or policy of securing sensitive assets as
a major reason for the Department’s
mismanagement of firearms and other
equipment. Insufficient tracking and
recording mechanisms and poor over-
sight were also factors identified.
This bill, Securing DHS Firearms
Act, seeks to fix these issues by ensur-
ing the Department has effective con-
trols over firearms and other sensitive
assets. Additionally, it requires DHS to
develop reporting and record-keeping
requirements for lost firearms and
other assets that law enforcement per-
sonnel can adhere to.
Enactment of the Securing DHS Fire-
arms Act of 2019 is necessary to ensure
that the highly sensitive assets that
help DHS officers protect our country
don’t fall into the wrong hands.
I first introduced this bill in the
115th Congress where it received bipar-
tisan support and passed this House
unanimously on January 9, 2018. I urge
my colleagues to once again pass this
commonsense legislation.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, a robust and standardized
policy on safeguarding DHS assets and
other law enforcement equipment is
not just an administrative matter. It is
a matter of public safety and homeland
security.
Additionally, clear requirements on
the reporting of lost equipment are
just as important. Official badges, im-
migration stamps, firearms, and other
sensitive assets are issued by the De-
partment to properly equip the front-
line personnel of DHS who defend our
homeland security every day. We must
ensure that such equipment is well-pro-
tected and maintained and not acces-
sible to bad actors.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of H.R.
1437, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. TORRES SMALL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 1437.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DHS ACQUISITION DOCUMENTA-
TION INTEGRITY ACT OF 2019
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 1912) to
amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to provide for requirements relat-
ing to documentation for major acqui-
sition programs, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1912
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘DHS Acqui-
sition Documentation Integrity Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
ACQUISITION DOCUMENTATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 711. ACQUISITION DOCUMENTATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For each major acquisi-
tion program, the Secretary, acting through
the Under Secretary for Management, shall
require the head of a relevant component or
office to—
‘‘(1) maintain acquisition documentation
that is complete, accurate, timely, and valid,
and that includes, at a minimum—
‘‘(A) operational requirements that are
validated consistent with departmental pol-
icy and changes to such requirements, as ap-
propriate;
‘‘(B) a complete lifecycle cost estimate
with supporting documentation;
‘‘(C) verification of such lifecycle cost esti-
mate against independent cost estimates,
and reconciliation of any differences;
‘‘(D) a cost-benefit analysis with sup-
porting documentation; and
‘‘(E) a schedule, including, as appropriate,
an integrated master schedule;
‘‘(2) prepare cost estimates and schedules
for major acquisition programs, as required
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.047 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3760 May 14, 2019
under subparagraphs (B) and (E), in a man-
ner consistent with best practices as identi-
fied by the Comptroller General of the
United States; and
‘‘(3) submit certain acquisition documenta-
tion to the Secretary to produce for submis-
sion to Congress an annual comprehensive
report on the status of departmental acquisi-
tions.
‘‘(b) WAIVER.—On a case-by-case basis with
respect to any major acquisition program
under this section, the Secretary may waive
the requirement under paragraph (3) of sub-
section (a) for a fiscal year if either—
‘‘(1) such program has not—
‘‘(A) entered the full rate production phase
in the acquisition lifecycle;
‘‘(B) had a reasonable cost estimate estab-
lished; and
‘‘(C) had a system configuration defined
fully; or
‘‘(2) such program does not meet the defini-
tion of capital asset, as such term is defined
by the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
‘‘(c) CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT.—At the
same time the President’s budget is sub-
mitted for a fiscal year under section 1105(a)
of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary
shall make information available, as applica-
ble, to the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate regarding
the requirement described in subsection (a)
in the prior fiscal year that includes the fol-
lowing specific information regarding each
major acquisition program for which the
Secretary has issued a waiver under sub-
section (b):
‘‘(1) The grounds for granting a waiver for
such program.
‘‘(2) The projected cost of such program.
‘‘(3) The proportion of a component’s or of-
fice’s annual acquisition budget attributed
to such program, as available.
‘‘(4) Information on the significance of
such program with respect to the compo-
nent’s or office’s operations and execution of
its mission.
‘‘(d) MAJOR ACQUISITION PROGRAM DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘major ac-
quisition program’ means a Department ac-
quisition program that is estimated by the
Secretary to require an eventual total ex-
penditure of at least $300,000,000 (based on
fiscal year 2019 constant dollars) over its
lifecycle cost.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.) is
amended by adding after the item related to
section 707 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 711. Acquisition documentation.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL) and
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that all Members may have 5 legisla-
tive days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this matter.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1912, a measure I introduced with the
support of Congressman DAN CRENSHAW
to ensure the Department of Homeland
Security effectively manages its larg-
est acquisitions, those with an esti-
mated lifecycle cost of $300 million or
more.
Each year, DHS invests billions of
dollars in its acquisition programs to
help execute its many critical mis-
sions. However, since the Department
was created, DHS has struggled to keep
some of its largest programs on sched-
ule and on budget.
For example, the Department’s at-
tempts to modernize and integrate its
various financial management systems
has been in the works for 15 years with
little to show for its multimillion ex-
penditures.
A plan to deliver a DHS-wide human
resources IT system has faced similar
delays, as has a decade-long attempt to
consolidate the Department’s head-
quarters at the St. Elizabeths campus
in southeast Washington, D.C.
The Department’s acquisition man-
agement challenges have been on the
Government Accountability Office’s
high-risk list since 2005. GAO has iden-
tified shortfalls, including acquisition
programs lacking key analyses and
schedules.
H.R. 1912, the DHS Acquisition Docu-
mentation Integrity Act of 2019, would
attempt to address some of these con-
cerns by requiring DHS to maintain
complete, accurate, timely, and valid
documentation for all its major acqui-
sitions. This includes documentation
such as lifecycle cost estimates, cost-
benefit analyses, and project schedules.
Codifying these acquisition docu-
mentation requirements, which are al-
ready embodied in DHS acquisition
policy, is necessary to safeguard
against future cost overruns and sched-
ule delays.
A previous version of this bill passed
the House unanimously in the 115th
Congress, and I urge my colleagues to
pass it again today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1912, the DHS Acquisition Docu-
mentation Integrity Act of 2019. This
legislation requires the Department of
Homeland Security to better document
its major acquisition programs that
are essential to keeping America safe.
While every Member of Congress will
agree that protecting our Nation and
its citizens is vitally important, we
must also agree that protecting tax-
payer dollars and ensuring account-
ability for the government agencies is
also essential.
The Government Accountability Of-
fice assists Congress in its efforts to
ensure accountability by producing a
report every 2 years that identifies
areas in the Federal Government that
are at high risk of waste, fraud, and
abuse. Major acquisitions by DHS have
consistently been identified by the
GAO as high risk.
This legislation requires DHS to im-
prove management of its major pur-
chases of systems to secure the border,
provide screening for travelers, and
protect our shores, and for our other
vital missions.
Too often, DHS has failed to docu-
ment what these programs will cost,
when they will be completed, and what
they will deliver. It is unacceptable to
spend billions of taxpayer dollars and
not document this important informa-
tion.
To address these issues, DHS has up-
dated its acquisition policy to follow
corporate best practices. However, it
must take additional steps to ensure
its components adhere to these poli-
cies.
H.R. 1912 provides important tools to
ensure that these policies are being fol-
lowed. It will improve visibility into
DHS major acquisition programs and
promote better management of DHS
acquisitions of items that are expected
to cost more than $300 million.
Under the bill, the Undersecretary
for Management must require the rel-
evant component or office to maintain
documentation that provides validated
operational requirements, a complete
lifecycle cost estimate, an independent
verification of that cost estimate, a
cost-benefit analysis of the program,
and a complete schedule for the acqui-
sition program.
With this documentation, Congress
and other government watchdogs will
be able to conduct necessary oversight
to ensure that taxpayer dollars are
being spent efficiently and effectively.
This bill passed the House of Rep-
resentatives by voice vote in both the
114th and 115th Congresses.
Mr. Speaker, I commend Representa-
tive TORRES SMALL for reintroducing
this language, and I urge my colleagues
to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, it is not enough for the
Department of Homeland Security to
simply analyze the upfront costs of ac-
quiring systems to fulfill capability
gaps. DHS must also budget for the
long-term operation and maintenance
costs of a system.
Given the criticality and budgetary
risks associated with major acquisi-
tions, it is critical that requirements
are created, alternatives are consid-
ered, a cost estimate is completed, and
a schedule is developed.
It falls to us, the Congress, to ensure
that the Department has reliable ac-
quisition documentation in place. En-
actment of H.R. 1912 will ensure that
DHS does its homework and is a good
steward of taxpayer dollars.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.010 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3761
May 14, 2019
(Ms. TORRES SMALL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 1912.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
QUADRENNIAL HOMELAND SECU-
RITY REVIEW TECHNICAL COR-
RECTIONS ACT OF 2019
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 1892) to
amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to make technical corrections to
the requirement that the Secretary of
Homeland Security submit quadrennial
homeland security reviews, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1892
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Quadrennial
Homeland Security Review Technical Cor-
rections Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO QUADREN-
NIAL HOMELAND SECURITY REVIEW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 707 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 347) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(3)—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end;
(B) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (D); and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(C) representatives from appropriate advi-
sory committees established pursuant to sec-
tion 871, including the Homeland Security
Advisory Council and the Homeland Security
Science and Technology Advisory Com-
mittee, or otherwise established, including
the Aviation Security Advisory Committee
established pursuant to section 44946 of title
49, United States Code; and’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by inserting before
the semicolon at the end the following:
‘‘based on the risk assessment required pur-
suant to subsection (c)(2)(B)’’;
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, to the extent prac-
ticable,’’ after ‘‘describe’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘budget plan’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘resources required’’;
(C) in paragraph (4)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, to the extent prac-
ticable,’’ after ‘‘identify’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘budget plan required to
provide sufficient resources to successfully’’
and inserting ‘‘resources required to’’; and
(iii) by striking the semicolon at the end
and inserting the following: ‘‘, including any
resources identified from redundant, waste-
ful, or unnecessary capabilities or capacities
that may be redirected to better support
other existing capabilities or capacities, as
the case may be; and’’;
(D) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a period; and
(E) by striking paragraph (6);
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Decem-
ber 31 of the year’’ and inserting ‘‘60 days
after the date of the submission of the Presi-
dent’s budget for the fiscal year after the fis-
cal year’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘de-
scription of the threats to’’ and inserting
‘‘risk assessment of’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ‘‘, as
required under subsection (b)(2)’’ before the
semicolon at the end;
(iii) in subparagraph (D)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘to the extent prac-
ticable,’’ before ‘‘a description’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘budget plan’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘resources required’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (F)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘to the extent prac-
ticable,’’ before ‘‘a discussion’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘the status of’’;
(v) in subparagraph (G)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘to the extent prac-
ticable,’’ before ‘‘a discussion’’;
(II) by striking ‘‘the status of’’;
(III) by inserting ‘‘and risks’’ before ‘‘to
national homeland’’; and
(IV) by inserting ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon
at the end;
(vi) by striking subparagraph (H); and
(vii) by redesignating subparagraph (I) as
subparagraph (H);
(C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4); and
(D) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(3) DOCUMENTATION.—The Secretary shall
retain and, upon request, provide to Congress
the following documentation regarding each
quadrennial homeland security review:
‘‘(A) Records regarding the consultation
carried out pursuant to subsection (a)(3), in-
cluding the following:
‘‘(i) All written communications, including
communications sent out by the Secretary
and feedback submitted to the Secretary
through technology, online communications
tools, in-person discussions, and the inter-
agency process.
‘‘(ii) Information on how feedback received
by the Secretary informed each such quad-
rennial homeland security review.
‘‘(B) Information regarding the risk assess-
ment required pursuant to subsection
(c)(2)(B), including the following:
‘‘(i) The risk model utilized to generate
such risk assessment.
‘‘(ii) Information, including data used in
the risk model, utilized to generate such risk
assessment.
‘‘(iii) Sources of information, including
other risk assessments, utilized to generate
such risk assessment.
‘‘(iv) Information on assumptions, weigh-
ing factors, and subjective judgments uti-
lized to generate such risk assessment, to-
gether with information on the rationale or
basis thereof.’’;
(4) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (e); and
(5) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(d) REVIEW.—Not later than 90 days after
the submission of each report required under
subsection (c)(1), the Secretary shall provide
to the Committee on Homeland Security of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate information on
the degree to which the findings and rec-
ommendations developed in the quadrennial
homeland security review that is the subject
of such report were integrated into the ac-
quisition strategy and expenditure plans for
the Department.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this Act shall apply with respect to
a quadrennial homeland security review con-
ducted after December 31, 2021.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL) and
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that all Members may have 5 legisla-
tive days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1829, the Quadrennial Homeland Secu-
rity Review Technical Corrections Act.
This bill, authored by Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN of New Jersey, will ensure
that the Quadrennial Homeland Secu-
rity Review, or QHSR, is a driving vi-
sion for the Department of Homeland
Security.
Given the importance of DHS’ mis-
sion, it is vital that the Department
continually review its policy positions
so that they, with Congress’ help, can
continue to stay ahead of the con-
stantly changing threats facing our
country.
By enacting this legislation, Con-
gress can see that DHS carries out its
long-overdue third QHSR and stays fo-
cused on the mission.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 1892, the Quadrennial Homeland
Security Review Technical Corrections
Act of 2019.
b 1645
In the Implementing Recommenda-
tions of the 9/11 Commission Act of
2007, Congress required the Department
of Homeland Security to conduct a se-
curity review every 4 years. As the
threats to the United States change
and evolve, it is more important than
ever for DHS to produce a robust strat-
egy to protect the American public.
The Quadrennial Homeland Security
Review, or QHSR, is intended to out-
line DHS’ strategic outlook in its plan
to successfully carry out its mission to
protect our homeland. Thus far, DHS
has produced two QHSRs since the re-
quirement was established: one in 2010
and its most recent one in 2014. We are
currently awaiting the release of the
2018 QHSR, which is quite a bit behind
schedule.
The Government Accountability Of-
fice has reviewed both reports and
made recommendations on how DHS
could improve its efforts for future
quadrennial reviews. In its 2016 review
of the most recent QHSR, the GAO
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.051 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3762 May 14, 2019
made several recommendations to
strengthen the QHSR process, which
are the basis of this legislation.
H.R. 1892 requires DHS to perform a
risk assessment to shape the direction
and the focus of QHSR. Second, the De-
partment would be required to collect
and maintain communications related
to the QHSR to allow for better con-
gressional oversight. Finally, DHS
would be required to enhance its stake-
holder engagement throughout the de-
velopment of QHSR.
The result of these changes would be
a more robust strategy that provides a
roadmap for DHS to address future
threats as they emerge and allows Con-
gress to better execute its oversight re-
sponsibilities.
This language passed the House with
wide support last Congress but, unfor-
tunately, was not taken up by the Sen-
ate.
I continue to believe that this is an
important piece of legislation, and I
thank the gentlewoman from New Jer-
sey (Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN) for re-
introducing it.
I urge all Members to join me in sup-
porting this commonsense bill, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN).
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity’s mission is complex and diverse.
Not only is DHS charged with pre-
venting terrorism, but it is the lead
Federal agency for emergency manage-
ment, cybersecurity, and border, mari-
time, and transportation security.
Given the breadth of DHS’ respon-
sibilities, it is essential that its lim-
ited resources be aligned with its mis-
sions to meet the ever-challenging
threat landscape. As such, the Quad-
rennial Homeland Security Review, or
QHSR, which DHS is mandated to
carry out every 4 years, is critical to
ensuring that the Department is posi-
tioned to effectively carry out its
multifaceted mission.
To date, DHS has issued two such re-
views, as we have heard. Unfortu-
nately, the Department’s third is 16
months overdue. This legislation seeks
to make refinements to the law to ad-
dress weaknesses identified by the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office in the
prior two reviews.
GAO, for example, emphasized that
documentation of the review process is
essential to ensuring the repeatability
of the review process. Accordingly,
H.R. 1892 requires that DHS retain and,
when requested, provide to Congress
certain documentation related to the
QHSR.
H.R. 1892 also seeks to ensure more
robust consultation with Homeland Se-
curity stakeholders, including State
and local governments and academic
institutions. H.R. 1892 ensures that
DHS undertakes and documents a risk
analysis to inform its policy positions.
This House unanimously approved
this measure in both the 115th Congress
and the 114th Congress; however, the
Senate has, indeed, failed to act on the
bill on both occasions.
Enactment of this bill will help chart
a thoughtful path on how to align its
resources with its mission and make
the Nation more secure. Mr. Speaker, I
urge the passage of H.R. 1892.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation will see
that the Department of Homeland Se-
curity remains focused on its primary
mission.
It is important that the Department
complete this review so that it, in part-
nership with Congress, can continue to
evolve with the threats that face our
homeland.
I would also add that this measure
passed the House last Congress by a
vote of 415–0, and I would hope my col-
leagues would do the same today.
Finally, I urge DHS to deliver the
long-overdue 2018 QHSR to Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of H.R.
1892, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. TORRES SMALL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 1892.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I demand the yeas and
nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
DHS INTELLIGENCE ROTATIONAL
ASSIGNMENT PROGRAM ACT OF
2019
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 2066) to
amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to establish the Intelligence Rota-
tional Assignment Program in the De-
partment of Homeland Security, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2066
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘DHS Intel-
ligence Rotational Assignment Program Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. INTELLIGENCE ROTATIONAL ASSIGN-
MENT PROGRAM.
Section 844 of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 414) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE ROTATIONAL ASSIGNMENT
PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
section, the Secretary shall establish an In-
telligence Rotational Assignment Program
as part of the Rotation Program under sub-
section (a).
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATION.—The Chief Human
Capital Officer, in conjunction with the
Chief Intelligence Officer, shall administer
the Intelligence Rotational Assignment Pro-
gram established pursuant to paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLITY.—The Intelligence Rota-
tional Assignment Program shall be open to
employees serving in existing analyst posi-
tions within the Department’s Intelligence
Enterprise and other Department employees
as determined appropriate by the Chief
Human Capital Officer and the Chief Intel-
ligence Officer.
‘‘(4) COORDINATION.—The responsibilities
specified in paragraph (3)(B) of subsection (a)
that apply to the Rotation Program under
such subsection shall, as applicable, also
apply to the Intelligence Rotational Assign-
ment Program under this subsection.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL) and
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that all Members have 5 legislative
days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, almost 18 years ago,
Americans were horrified by the dev-
astating September 11 attacks. While
the perpetrator sought to bring us to
our knees, we emerged more deter-
mined to protect our Nation.
In the years since the attacks, efforts
to improve information sharing, inter-
operability, and coordination across all
levels of government have been redou-
bled. H.R. 2066, the DHS Intelligence
Rotational Assignment Program Act,
continues in the same vein by pro-
viding DHS employees with the oppor-
tunity to complete a rotational assign-
ment within DHS’ Office of Intel-
ligence and Analysis.
By establishing this program, officers
and analysts across DHS who have a
passion for keeping our Nation secure
would be provided the opportunity to
develop and broaden their intelligence
and counterterrorism skills. Organiza-
tions with such programs find that
they yield benefits far beyond what the
individuals who participate learn.
As the threat landscape continues to
rapidly change, ensuring that those
charged with keeping us safe have
ample opportunities to enhance their
analytical skills must remain a pri-
ority. Mr. Speaker, I urge my House
colleagues to support this bipartisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.053 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3763
May 14, 2019
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2066, the DHS Intelligence Rotational
Assignment Program Act of 2019.
I want to commend the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. GALLAGHER) for
introducing this legislation.
The goal of H.R. 2066 is to establish a
robust rotation program for intel-
ligence analysts across the Department
of Homeland Security. As a former in-
telligence officer, Representative GAL-
LAGHER certainly understands the
value of robust, interagency intel-
ligence cooperation.
This legislation addresses specific
shortfalls within the Department of
Homeland Security where the different
component intelligence offices do not
reliably coordinate and analysts from
one agency are rarely detailed to an-
other.
This bill was originally introduced
last Congress and received over-
whelming bipartisan support. I urge
my colleagues to support the bill.
Mr. Speaker, establishing a rotation
program for intelligence analysts from
individual DHS component intelligence
offices is essential for building a robust
DHS intelligence enterprise.
I applaud Congressman GALLAGHER
for his work on this issue, and I want
to thank Chairman THOMPSON and
Ranking Member MIKE ROGERS for
bringing this bill to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Speaker, last year, H.R. 2066 passed
the House of Representatives under a
suspension of the rules. Authorizing
this program will help to improve the
effectiveness of DHS’ intelligence anal-
ysis operations for years to come. As
such, I encourage my colleagues to sup-
port H.R. 2066, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in support of my bill H.R. 2066, the DHS Intel-
ligence Rotational Assignment Program Act of
2019.
Having spent nearly a decade working on
intelligence issues for the military and the In-
telligence Community, I know first-hand the
importance of collaboration between different
intelligence offices. Understanding the mission
sets and key intelligence questions of partner
agencies not only makes the entire Intel-
ligence Community better, but keeps our na-
tion safer. We must do all we can to strength-
en participation in programs that seek to en-
courage this type of cross pollination.
The Intelligence Rotational Assignment Pro-
gram, or TRAP, was established to provide
the Department’s intelligence analysts with the
opportunity to gain experience in the different
mission areas across the DHS intelligence en-
terprise.
While the establishment of IRAP was an im-
portant step for improving intra-agency com-
munication, the program has seen low levels
of participation due to the fact that most DHS
intelligence offices are unaware of the pro-
gram’s existence, and there are no incentives
for analysts to partake.
H.R. 2066 seeks to reverse this trend by au-
thorizing IRAP within the larger ‘‘Homeland
Security Rotation Program,’’ or HSRP. Oper-
ated by the Under Secretary of Management,
the HSRP encourages rotations for senior
level employees throughout the Department to
broaden their knowledge of various compo-
nent operations.
Establishing a specific intelligence rotation
program through this framework will raise the
program’s profile within the Department and
encourage new incentives. Further, by cre-
ating a more robust and transparent rotation
program, this bill encourages DHS intelligence
analysts to gain the skills and competencies
that elevate the Department’s Intelligence En-
terprise above its individual program missions
while ensuring the program’s existence in the
future.
I want to thank Chairman Thompson and
Ranking Member Rogers for bringing this bill
to the Floor, and my colleagues for supporting
its passage. I urge the Senate to swiftly adopt
this important legislation, and yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. TORRES SMALL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 2066.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE
PROGRAM EXTENSION ACT OF 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2578) to reauthorize the National
Flood Insurance Program, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2578
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Flood Insurance Program Extension Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL FLOOD
INSURANCE PROGRAM.
(a) FINANCING.—Section 1309(a) of the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
4016(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
(b) PROGRAM EXPIRATION.—Section 1319 of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4026) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
(c) RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE.—If this
Act is enacted after May 31, 2019, the amend-
ments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall
take effect as if enacted on May 31, 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks on this legislation
and to insert extraneous material
thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my
bill, H.R. 2578, the National Flood In-
surance Program Extension Act of 2019.
Since the National Flood Insurance
Programs’ multiyear authorization ex-
pired on September 30, 2017, ideological
differences have led Congress to pass 10
short-term extensions and even allowed
the program to briefly lapse twice dur-
ing government shutdowns.
Unfortunately, the National Flood
Insurance Program is currently set to
expire May 31. My bill, which I have co-
authored with Ranking Member
MCHENRY, would extend the program to
September 30 because we recognize
that the NFIP is critical to ensuring
access to flood insurance coverage
across this country. This extension will
afford the ranking member and me
time to complete our work on a long-
term, bipartisan compromise.
Mr. Speaker, the NFIP is much more
than just an insurance program. The
NFIP plays an important role in dis-
aster preparedness and resiliency by
providing flood maps, setting standards
for floodplain management, and invest-
ing in mitigation for our homes, busi-
nesses, and infrastructure.
b 1700
According to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, everyone is at
risk of flooding. That means that this
is not just a coastal issue. We all have
an interest in ensuring a strong Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program. We
need a long-term reauthorization to
provide certainty to homeowners and
businesses, and we also need critical re-
forms to the program.
First and foremost, we must do more
to address unaffordable premium costs
for low-income households; address the
program’s debt, which is unfairly bur-
dening policyholders with millions of
dollars in interest; and lower costs and
fees on policyholders.
Secondly, we need to invest more
heavily in mapping, floodplain manage-
ment, and mitigation, which will save
taxpayer dollars in the long run by
helping to reduce the damage that oc-
curs when floods hit.
Finally, Superstorm Sandy exposed
numerous issues related to claims proc-
essing, including findings of outright
fraud. Going forward, we must work to
ensure that we have safeguards in place
and mechanisms for greater account-
ability and oversight to ensure that
claims are handled fairly and effi-
ciently to provide relief for policy-
holders.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.055 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3764 May 14, 2019
Mr. Speaker, passing H.R. 2578 is not
just a stopgap measure to kick the can
down the road. I have every confidence
that, with this extension, Democrats
and Republicans will finally break the
cycle of haphazard extensions. I intend
to work in a bipartisan manner with
Mr. MCHENRY to provide a long-term
reauthorization to restore stability and
confidence in the market. Through a
thoughtful, bipartisan process, Con-
gress can provide real relief to fami-
lies, communities, and businesses.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of
the bill, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2578, a bill to enact a short-term exten-
sion of the National Flood Insurance
Program. This program has over 5 mil-
lion policyholders who have come to
rely upon it, but it is also a flawed pro-
gram that is in need of a customer-
based set of reforms.
Flooding is the most common, de-
structive, and expensive of the natural
disasters we face. I am confident in
saying what worked in the Lyndon
Johnson administration on disasters
doesn’t really work this year, in 2019.
The Financial Services Committee
has held numerous hearings on this
matter over the last decade, hearing
from dozens and dozens of witnesses
from all points of view, including con-
sumers, local communities, and the in-
surance industry. The data we have ac-
cumulated from those hearings, or lack
thereof, suggests that there is great
need for programmatic reforms, re-
forms that include better data, in-
creased transparency, better tech-
nology, and more innovation. These
can be bipartisan reforms.
Moreover, the NFIP owes more than
$20 billion in debt to the American tax-
payer. This is a major issue, despite
the fact that last Congress $16 billion
of that debt was canceled. So it is a
program in need of systemic reforms.
So what kind of National Flood In-
surance Program do we want to have
for Americans going forward? An insur-
ance program that is equipped with the
tools it needs to perform its insurance
functions, pay claims, incentivize miti-
gation, and ultimately reduce our Na-
tion’s flood risk, or should the NFIP
continue the current system of distrib-
uting benefits as needed, ultimately re-
quiring annual appropriations as flood
risk grows?
I hope that Members of this House
will choose to support important re-
forms to modernize an outdated pro-
gram. There are reasonable steps that
we can take to reform and innovate in
a bipartisan fashion. Strengthening the
NFIP and giving policyholders 21st cen-
tury options to match their 21st cen-
tury expectations, I think, should be
our outcome.
Private insurance, better technology,
more mapping data, faster claims proc-
essing, and rethinking old under-
writing models are just a few of the
tools readily available for modernizing
the NFIP.
At the same time, we must also con-
sider how we can use risk sharing to
offload some of the NFIP burdens and
the cost savings that come from
spreading risk to others who are quali-
fied, capable, and willing to manage it
off the backs of the taxpayers and more
broadly distributed to those who are
willing to take that risk.
Building a more resilient and cost-ef-
fective NFIP are goals that will benefit
all consumers and the American peo-
ple, but these are long-term goals to
which we can only aspire by passing
this short-term extension today.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for Chair-
woman WATERS’ engaging and reaching
out to committee Republicans to work
together on this measure to give us
space and time so that we can have the
bipartisan reforms that I think we can
come to terms on later this year. But I
also want to thank Chairwoman
WATERS for agreeing to sit down with
me as the ranking Republican on the
committee and committee Repub-
licans, roll up our sleeves, and get to
work over the next few weeks and real-
ly collaborate on a full reauthorization
bill that addresses her concerns, my
concerns, committee Democrat and Re-
publican concerns, and the needs of the
public. I think we can come to that
conclusion.
I think we can bring a bipartisan bill
to the floor, and I appreciate that
Chairwoman WATERS has had that ap-
propriate outreach to committee Re-
publicans. That is a hopeful sign for
our opportunity to legislate this Con-
gress.
The American people deserve an ef-
fective and efficient Flood Insurance
Program that they can rely on. By
working together in a bipartisan way,
this Congress can ensure that that con-
tinues to happen, and I am sure we can
meet that expectation.
Mr. Speaker, I would encourage my
colleagues to support this short-term
extension with the hope and the goal of
our bringing a bipartisan bill back be-
fore the House that can get the wide
support of this Chamber.
Mr. Speaker, I also commend the en-
gagement of Chairwoman WATERS on
this matter and a number of other mat-
ters where we have been able to work
together in a bipartisan way. I am
hopeful and it is my expectation that
we will be able to work together on
this matter over the coming weeks.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand
with the millions of families across the
country who rely on the National
Flood Insurance Program by offering
H.R. 2578 here today.
My bill will provide continuity for
the NFIP without which these families
would be left unprotected in the face of
increasing flood risk. What is more,
without the NFIP, the stability of the
housing market would be put at risk.
My coauthor, Mr. MCHENRY, and I
offer this bill today not as a permanent
solution, but as a step towards a broad-
er plan that will reauthorize the pro-
gram for the long term and make re-
forms to ensure continued availability,
affordability, and fairness in flood in-
surance.
Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased for
the coming together of Mr. MCHENRY
and myself to present a bipartisan bill
on behalf of all of our citizens. I urge
all of my colleagues to support H.R.
2578, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2578.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
KLEPTOCRACY ASSET RECOVERY
REWARDS ACT
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 389) to authorize the Secretary of
the Treasury to pay rewards under an
asset recovery rewards program to help
identify and recover stolen assets
linked to foreign government corrup-
tion and the proceeds of such corrup-
tion hidden behind complex financial
structures in the United States and
abroad, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 389
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
The Act may be cited as the ‘‘Kleptocracy
Asset Recovery Rewards Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) The Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative
(StAR), a World Bank and United Nations
anti-money-laundering effort, estimates that
between $20 billion to $40 billion has been
lost to developing countries annually
through corruption.
(2) In 2014, more than $480 million in cor-
ruption proceeds hidden in bank accounts
around the world by former Nigerian dic-
tator Sani Abacha and his co-conspirators
was forfeited through efforts by the Depart-
ment of Justice.
(3) In 2010, the Department of Justice es-
tablished the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery
Initiative, to work in partnership with Fed-
eral law enforcement agencies to forfeit the
proceeds of foreign official corruption and,
where appropriate, return those proceeds to
benefit the people harmed by these acts of
corruption and abuse of office.
(4) Of the $20 billion to $40 billion lost by
developing countries annually through cor-
ruption, only about $5 billion has been repa-
triated in the last 15 years.
(5) Governments weakened by corruption
and loss of assets due to corruption have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.058 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3765
May 14, 2019
fewer resources to devote to the fight
against terrorism and fewer resources to de-
vote to building strong financial, law en-
forcement, and judicial institutions to aid in
the fight against the financing of terrorism.
(6) The United States has a number of ef-
fective programs to reward individuals who
provide valuable information that assist in
the identification, arrest, and conviction of
criminal actors and their associates, as well
as seizure and forfeiture of illicitly derived
assets and the proceeds of criminal activity.
(7) The Internal Revenue Service has the
Whistleblower Program, which pays awards
to individuals who provide specific and cred-
ible information to the IRS if the informa-
tion results in the collection of taxes, pen-
alties, interest or other amounts from non-
compliant taxpayers.
(8) The Department of State administers
rewards programs on international ter-
rorism, illegal narcotics, and transnational
organized crime with the goal of bringing
perpetrators to justice.
(9) None of these existing rewards pro-
grams specifically provide monetary incen-
tives for identifying and recovering stolen
assets linked solely to foreign government
corruption, as opposed to criminal prosecu-
tions or civil or criminal forfeitures.
(10) The recovery of stolen assets linked to
foreign government corruption and the pro-
ceeds of such corruption may not always in-
volve a BSA violation or lead to a forfeiture
action. In such cases there would be no abil-
ity to pay rewards under existing Treasury
Department authorities.
(11) Foreign government corruption can
take many forms but typically entails gov-
ernment officials stealing, misappropriating,
or illegally diverting assets and funds from
their own government treasuries to enrich
their personal wealth directly through em-
bezzlement or bribes to allow government re-
sources to be expended in ways that are not
transparent and may not either be necessary
or be the result of open competition. Corrup-
tion also includes situations where public of-
ficials take bribes to allow government re-
sources to be expended in ways which are not
transparent and may not be necessary or the
result of open competition. These corrupt of-
ficials often use the United States and inter-
national financial system to hide their sto-
len assets and the proceeds of corruption.
(12) The individuals who come forward to
expose foreign governmental corruption and
kleptocracy often do so at great risk to their
own safety and that of their immediate fam-
ily members and face retaliation from per-
sons who exercise foreign political or govern-
mental power. Monetary rewards can provide
a necessary incentive to expose such corrup-
tion and provide a financial means to provide
for their well-being and avoid retribution.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that a Department of the Treasury
stolen asset recovery rewards program to
help identify and recover stolen assets
linked to foreign government corruption and
the proceeds of such corruption hidden be-
hind complex financial structures is needed
in order to—
(1) intensify the global fight against cor-
ruption; and
(2) serve United States efforts to identify
and recover such stolen assets, forfeit pro-
ceeds of such corruption, and, where appro-
priate and feasible, return the stolen assets
or proceeds thereof to the country harmed
by the acts of corruption.
SEC. 3. IN GENERAL.
(a) DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
KLEPTOCRACY ASSET RECOVERY REWARDS
PROGRAM.—Chapter 97 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘§ 9706. Department of the Treasury
Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Pro-
gram
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Department of the Treasury a program
to be known as the ‘Kleptocracy Asset Re-
covery Rewards Program’ for the payment of
rewards to carry out the purposes of this sec-
tion.
‘‘(2) PURPOSE.—The rewards program shall
be designed to support U.S. Government pro-
grams and investigations aimed at restrain-
ing, seizing, forfeiting, or repatriating stolen
assets linked to foreign government corrup-
tion and the proceeds of such corruption.
‘‘(3) IMPLEMENTATION.—The rewards pro-
gram shall be administered by, and at the
sole discretion of, the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation, as appropriate,
with the Secretary of State, the Attorney
General, and the heads of such other depart-
ments and agencies as the Secretary may
find appropriate.
‘‘(b) REWARDS AUTHORIZED.—In the sole
discretion of the Secretary and in consulta-
tion, as appropriate, with the heads of other
relevant Federal departments or agencies,
the Secretary may pay a reward to any indi-
vidual, or to any nonprofit humanitarian or-
ganization designated by such individual, if
that individual furnishes information lead-
ing to—
‘‘(1) the restraining or seizure of stolen as-
sets in an account at a U.S. financial institu-
tion (including a U.S. branch of a foreign fi-
nancial institution), that come within the
United States, or that come within the pos-
session or control of any United States per-
son;
‘‘(2) the forfeiture of stolen assets in an ac-
count at a U.S. financial institution (includ-
ing a U.S. branch of a foreign financial insti-
tution), that come within the United States,
or that come within the possession or con-
trol of any United States person; or
‘‘(3) where appropriate, the repatriation of
stolen assets in an account at a U.S. finan-
cial institution (including a U.S. branch of a
foreign financial institution), that come
within the United States, or that come with-
in the possession or control of any United
States person.
‘‘(c) COORDINATION.—
‘‘(1) PROCEDURES.—To ensure that the pay-
ment of rewards pursuant to this section
does not duplicate or interfere with any
other payment authorized by the Depart-
ment of Justice or other Federal law enforce-
ment agencies for the obtaining of informa-
tion or other evidence, the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, the Attorney General, and the
heads of such other agencies as the Sec-
retary may find appropriate, shall establish
procedures for the offering, administration,
and payment of rewards under this section,
including procedures for—
‘‘(A) identifying actions with respect to
which rewards will be offered;
‘‘(B) the receipt and analysis of data; and
‘‘(C) the payment of rewards and approval
of such payments.
‘‘(2) PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ATTORNEY GEN-
ERAL REQUIRED.—Before making a reward
under this section in a matter over which
there is Federal criminal jurisdiction, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall obtain the
written concurrence of the Attorney Gen-
eral.
‘‘(d) PAYMENT OF REWARDS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For the purpose of paying rewards pursuant
to this section, there is authorized to be ap-
propriated—
‘‘(A) $450,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
‘‘(B) for each fiscal year, any amount re-
covered in stolen assets described under sub-
section (b) that the Secretary determines is
necessary to carry out this program con-
sistent with this section.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON ANNUAL PAYMENTS.—Ex-
cept as provided under paragraph (3), the
total amount of rewards paid pursuant to
this section may not exceed $25,000,000 in any
calendar year.
‘‘(3) PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORITY.—The Presi-
dent may waive the limitation under para-
graph (2) with respect to a calendar year if
the President provides written notice of such
waiver to the appropriate committees of the
Congress at least 30 days before any payment
in excess of such limitation is made pursuant
to this section.
‘‘(4) PAYMENTS TO BE MADE FIRST FROM STO-
LEN ASSET AMOUNTS.—In paying any reward
under this section, the Secretary shall, to
the extent possible, make such reward pay-
ment—
‘‘(A) first, from appropriated funds author-
ized under paragraph (1)(B); and
‘‘(B) second, from appropriated funds au-
thorized under paragraph (1)(A).
‘‘(e) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(1) SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION.—No
award may be made under this section based
on information submitted to the Secretary
unless such information is submitted under
penalty of perjury.
‘‘(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT.—No reward paid
under this section may exceed $5,000,000, un-
less the Secretary—
‘‘(A) personally authorizes such greater
amount in writing;
‘‘(B) determines that offer or payment of a
reward of a greater amount is necessary due
to the exceptional nature of the case; and
‘‘(C) notifies the appropriate committees of
the Congress of such determination.
‘‘(3) APPROVAL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—No reward amount may
be paid under this section without the writ-
ten approval of the Secretary.
‘‘(B) DELEGATION.—The Secretary may not
delegate the approval required under sub-
paragraph (A) to anyone other than an Under
Secretary of the Department of the Treas-
ury.
‘‘(4) PROTECTION MEASURES.—If the Sec-
retary determines that the identity of the
recipient of a reward or of the members of
the recipient’s immediate family must be
protected, the Secretary shall take such
measures in connection with the payment of
the reward as the Secretary considers nec-
essary to effect such protection.
‘‘(5) FORMS OF REWARD PAYMENT.—The Sec-
retary may make a reward under this section
in the form of a monetary payment.
‘‘(f) INELIGIBILITY, REDUCTION IN, OR DENIAL
OF REWARD.—
‘‘(1) OFFICER AND EMPLOYEES.—An officer
or employee of any entity of Federal, State,
or local government or of a foreign govern-
ment who, while in the performance of offi-
cial duties, furnishes information described
under subsection (b) shall not be eligible for
a reward under this section.
‘‘(2) PARTICIPATING INDIVIDUALS.—If the
claim for a reward is brought by an indi-
vidual who the Secretary has a reasonable
basis to believe knowingly planned, initi-
ated, directly participated in, or facilitated
the actions that led to assets of a foreign
state or governmental entity being stolen,
misappropriated, or illegally diverted or to
the payment of bribes or other foreign gov-
ernmental corruption, the Secretary shall
appropriately reduce, and may deny, such
award. If such individual is convicted of
criminal conduct arising from the role de-
scribed in the preceding sentence, the Sec-
retary shall deny or may seek to recover any
reward, as the case may be.
‘‘(g) REPORT.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.021 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3766 May 14, 2019
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Within 180 days of the
enactment of this section, and annually
thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary shall
issue a report to the appropriate committees
of the Congress—
‘‘(A) detailing to the greatest extent pos-
sible the amount, location, and ownership or
beneficial ownership of any stolen assets
that, on or after the date of the enactment of
this section, come within the United States
or that come within the possession or con-
trol of any United States person;
‘‘(B) discussing efforts being undertaken to
identify more such stolen assets and their
owners or beneficial owners; and
‘‘(C) including a discussion of the inter-
actions of the Department of the Treasury
with the international financial institutions
(as defined in section 1701(c)(2) of the Inter-
national Financial Institutions Act) to iden-
tify the amount, location, and ownership, or
beneficial ownership, of stolen assets held in
financial institutions outside the United
States.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR ONGOING INVESTIGA-
TIONS.—The report issued under paragraph
(1) shall not include information related to
ongoing investigations.
‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF THE CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘appropriate committees
of the Congress’ means the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
‘‘(2) FINANCIAL ASSET.—The term ‘financial
asset’ means any funds, investments, or own-
ership interests, as defined by the Secretary,
that on or after the date of the enactment of
this section come within the United States
or that come within the possession or con-
trol of any United States person.
‘‘(3) FOREIGN GOVERNMENT CORRUPTION.—
The term ‘foreign government corruption’
includes bribery of a foreign public official,
or the misappropriation, theft, or embezzle-
ment of public funds or property by or for
the benefit of a foreign public official.
‘‘(4) FOREIGN PUBLIC OFFICIAL.—The term
‘foreign public official’ includes any person
who occupies a public office by virtue of hav-
ing been elected, appointed, or employed, in-
cluding any military, civilian, special, hon-
orary, temporary, or uncompensated official.
‘‘(5) IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.—The term
‘immediate family member’, with respect to
an individual, has the meaning given the
term ‘member of the immediate family’
under section 36(k) of the State Department
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C.
2708(k)).
‘‘(6) REWARDS PROGRAM.—The term ‘re-
wards program’ means the program estab-
lished in subsection (a)(1) of this section.
‘‘(7) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
‘‘(8) STOLEN ASSETS.—The term ‘stolen as-
sets’ means financial assets within the juris-
diction of the United States, constituting,
derived from, or traceable to, any proceeds
obtained directly or indirectly from foreign
government corruption.’’.
(b) REPORT ON DISPOSITION OF RECOVERED
ASSETS.—Within 360 days of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall issue a report to the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress (as defined under section
9706(h) of title 31, United States Code) de-
scribing policy choices and recommendations
for disposition of stolen assets recovered pur-
suant to section 9706 of title 31, United
States Code.
(c) TABLE OF CONTENTS AMENDMENT.—The
table of contents for chapter 97 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘9706. Department of the Treasury
Kleptocracy Asset Recovery
Rewards Program.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 389, the
Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards
Act offered by Representatives Lynch
and Budd, will help the United States
Government identify and recover as-
sets that corrupt foreign government
officials have stolen from their coun-
tries. The act does this through a
Treasury-based rewards program that
incentivizes individuals to notify the
U.S. Government of the location of sto-
len assets that are linked to foreign
government corruption. These assets
may be bank accounts as well as lux-
ury items, such as mansions, jewelry,
jet planes, and artwork.
Law enforcement already works hard
to find these stolen assets. Since 2010,
the United States has fought in courts
to freeze, forfeit, and ultimately re-
cover more than $3.2 billion in assets
linked to foreign corruption to be re-
turned to the victims of these financial
crimes.
There are several recent examples of
corrupt foreign funds making their way
to the United States. The multibillion-
dollar 1MDB scandal involving Gold-
man Sachs defrauded the people of Ma-
laysia. To date, the FBI has identified
$1.7 billion of the proceeds of that
crime, which went to purchase a yacht,
museum-quality paintings, and real es-
tate. In fact, the government returned
$57 million of recovered stolen funds to
Malaysia following a settlement over
the rights to the 2013 film, ‘‘The Wolf
of Wall Street,’’ which was financed
using corrupt 1MDB funds.
Similarly, the United States helped
to recover over $30 million from the
sale of real estate, a Ferrari, and rare
music memorabilia, which were pur-
chased by Equatorial Guinea’s Presi-
dent Obiang and his son with corrupt
funds.
H.R. 389 would direct the Treasury to
pay whistleblowers rewards from the
recovered assets for helping to uncover
assets like these. Encouraging and
incentivizing whistlblowers would strip
the bad actors of the ill-gotten gains
and help victims and their countries
recover from the devastating effects of
corruption.
So, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Mr.
LYNCH and Mr. BUDD for introducing
this bill to help the U.S. punish
kleptocrats. For these reasons, I urge
my colleagues to support H.R. 389.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
389, the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery
Rewards Act, and I want to thank the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
LYNCH) as well as the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. BUDD) for their
hard work on this important piece of
bipartisan legislation.
H.R. 389 would authorize the Treas-
ury Department to offer rewards for in-
formation leading to the recovery of
assets stolen through foreign govern-
ment corruption.
Mr. Speaker, in the past, the United
States has focused on fighting such
corruption with traditional tools such
as sanctions, technical assistance, and
oversight of international financial in-
stitutions, but the bill gives Treasury
an additional tool to expose corrupt
foreign officials.
I, again, would like to thank my col-
leagues across the aisle, especially
Chairwoman WATERS, for her hard
work on this bill and allowing us to
work together in a bipartisan fashion
to refine this legislation as it made its
way to the floor.
One piece of the bill that has gotten
better that I still think could use an
additional tweak is the bill does not
allow anyone to receive a payment if
they are part of the corrupt activity,
but it does not require Treasury to
fully investigate every potential claim-
ant to make sure that they are not. So
while that has gotten better—there is
better language in the bill now—I
think that, hopefully, this can con-
tinue to be perfected as we move for-
ward. I support the bill, but I do think
that provision could get better.
The minority did make several pro-
posals to strengthen the bill, which
were accepted by the majority. I am
grateful to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts for partnering with us, as well
as the gentleman from North Carolina,
and for their hard work on the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to voting
for H.R. 389. I urge my colleagues to
support it, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
(1715)
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
LYNCH), the sponsor of this legislation
and a member of the Financial Serv-
ices Committee.
Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for her leadership on
the committee and on this issue and
for yielding me this time.
The opportunity that we have today
here to present the Kleptocracy Asset
Recovery Rewards Act is a very impor-
tant moment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.021 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3767
May 14, 2019
I also want to thank my colleagues,
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. BUDD) and also the gentleman
from Tennessee (Mr. COHEN), who have
also contributed hard work in devel-
oping and cosponsoring this legisla-
tion.
Foreign dictators who rob the treas-
uries of developing nations, where inde-
pendent judiciaries are rare, and the
rule of law is often weak, is not a new
problem; but, unfortunately, it is a
growing problem.
It is now estimated that more than $1
trillion is lost to bribes and official
corruption around the world each year.
A significant portion of those illicit
proceeds are used to support organized
crime and terrorist organizations, fur-
ther destabilizing the social institu-
tions where this corruption occurs,
often in developing countries who can
least afford it.
This undermines the local rule of law
and contributes to the regional insecu-
rity and instabilities in neighboring
countries.
Governments that are weakened by
corruption have fewer resources to pro-
vide basic services, to establish a sta-
ble business climate, and to create
jobs. They also have fewer resources to
devote to building strong law enforce-
ment and judicial institutions to com-
bat exploitation by terrorists and
criminal organizations.
It is a sad fact that today much of
this stolen money ends up here, in
bank accounts right here in the United
States.
H.R. 389 fights back against the
spreading influence of this corruption.
The Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Re-
wards Act establishes a rewards pro-
gram to incentivize individuals to no-
tify law enforcement and authorities of
assets stolen from foreign treasuries
and illegally transferred to the United
States.
Now, I appreciate the gentleman’s
concerns about making sure that bad
actors don’t participate in this incen-
tive program.
This program replicates the incen-
tives that have been utilized by the
United States Department of Justice
and the FBI for decades to take down
criminal drug cartels with the help of
paid informants.
While the United States has many ef-
fective programs to reward individuals
who provide valuable information to-
ward curbing criminal behavior, none
of our programs currently have been
designed to take aim at recovering sto-
len assets linked to foreign government
kleptocracy.
Kleptocracy by foreign leaders can
drain the hope and faith of struggling
peoples around the globe who strive for
social justice and equal rights.
This bill recognizes that foreign cor-
ruption takes many forms and that in-
dividuals who come forward to expose
corruption often do so at great per-
sonal peril to themselves and to their
families.
So, as transnational criminal enter-
prises persist, and terrorists adapt to
the different mechanisms that we use,
we must provide law enforcement with
fresh tools to address these emerging
threats.
H.R. 389 does exactly that.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank, again,
the chairwoman for her cooperation
and leadership. I thank my colleagues
on the other side, especially Mr. BUDD,
for his work on this bill as well. I
thank my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle for working with me on this
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 389
will give the Treasury an additional
tool to fight corrupt foreign govern-
ments. There has been a lot of work
done on this bill. It is a good bill. I
urge my colleagues to support it, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased that
Mr. LYNCH and Mr. BUDD have pre-
sented this bipartisan bill to the
House. We must not allow the United
States financial system to be a haven
for stolen assets that rightly belong to
others.
By incentivizing individuals to come
forward with information about where
these stolen assets are hidden, we en-
sure the financial security of our sys-
tem and can help send back recovered
assets to where they belong.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 389, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
BUILDING UP INDEPENDENT LIVES
AND DREAMS ACT
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1060) to provide regulatory relief
to charitable organizations that pro-
vide housing assistance, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1060
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Building Up
Independent Lives and Dreams Act’’ or the
‘‘BUILD Act’’.
SEC. 2. MORTGAGE LOAN TRANSACTION DISCLO-
SURE REQUIREMENTS.
(a) TILA AMENDMENT.—Section 105 of the
Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1604) is
amended by inserting after subsection (d) the
following:
‘‘(e) DISCLOSURE FOR CHARITABLE MORT-
GAGE LOAN TRANSACTIONS.—With respect to a
mortgage loan transaction involving a resi-
dential mortgage loan offered at 0 percent
interest primarily for charitable purposes by
an organization described in section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from taxation under section 501(a) of
such Code, forms HUD–1 and GFE (as defined
under section 1024.2(b) of title 12, Code of
Federal Regulations) together with a disclo-
sure substantially in the form of the Loan
Model Form H–2 (as depicted in Appendix H
to part 1026 of title 12, Code of Federal Regu-
lations) shall, collectively, be an appropriate
model form for purposes of subsection (b) of
this section.’’.
(b) RESPA AMENDMENT.—Section 4 of the
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of
1974 (12 U.S.C. 2603) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(d) DISCLOSURE FOR CHARITABLE MORT-
GAGE LOAN TRANSACTIONS.—With respect to a
mortgage loan transaction involving a resi-
dential mortgage loan offered at 0 percent
interest primarily for charitable purposes,
an organization described in section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from taxation under section 501(a) of
such Code may use forms HUD–1 and GFE (as
defined under section 1024.2(b) of title 12,
Code of Federal Regulations) together with a
disclosure substantially in the form of the
Loan Model Form H–2 (as depicted in Appen-
dix H to part 1026 of title 12, Code of Federal
Regulations), collectively, in lieu of the dis-
closure published under subsection (a) of this
section.’’.
(c) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection shall issue such regula-
tions as may be necessary to implement the
amendments made by subsections (a) and (b).
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take ef-
fect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks on this
legislation and to insert extraneous
material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R.
1060, the BUILD Act, which is bipar-
tisan legislation authored by Rep-
resentatives LOUDERMILK and SHERMAN
that will allow nonprofit organizations
like Habitat for Humanity, offering
mortgage loans for charitable purposes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.062 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3768 May 14, 2019
to use alternative forms to satisfy dis-
closure requirements.
Specifically, this bill would allow
bona fide nonprofits which are eligible
for tax-exempt charitable donations to
have the option to use the Truth in
Lending, Good Faith Estimate, and
HUD–1 forms instead of TRID forms re-
quired by the TILA-RESPA Integrated
Disclosure Rule. They may only do so
in limited circumstances where they
offer a zero percent interest loan.
Currently, financial institutions that
make five or fewer mortgage loans a
year are allowed to use these alter-
native disclosure forms, including the
HUD–1 form, instead of the TRID form.
This bill simply extends this flexi-
bility to eligible nonprofit charities in
very limited circumstances, even if
they make more than five mortgage
loans a year.
Passing this bipartisan legislation
will help nonprofits do their important
work in helping families in our com-
munities build and improve places to
call home.
For example, the vast majority of the
more than 1,200 local Habitat organiza-
tions in all 50 States are small, com-
munity-based organizations with very
small mortgage portfolios and few, if
any, full-time staff and rely on volun-
teers for much of their operations.
The BUILD Act will help charities
like Habitat help families get a home
of their own, but still ensures the ma-
terial terms and costs of mortgage
loans are clearly disclosed to the bor-
rower.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives
LOUDERMILK and SHERMAN for their
work on this bill, and I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 1060, the
BUILD Act.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1060, the BUILD Act. This bipartisan
legislation addresses an unintended
consequence of the Know Before You
Owe disclosure rule, better known as
TRID.
The BUILD Act is a straightforward
solution, and it allows bona fide non-
profits making zero percent interest
loans to use whichever Truth in Lend-
ing form they feel is better. They can
use the Truth in Lending, Good Faith
Estimate, and the HUD–1 form instead
of the TRID forms, or they can choose
the TRID forms.
Currently, organizations making five
or fewer mortgage loans are exempt
from using the TRID forms. This ex-
tends that exemption to charities mak-
ing zero percent interest loans, regard-
less of how many loans they make per
year.
The costs and complexities associ-
ated with TRID have left charities like
Habitat for Humanity struggling to
provide mortgages. These nonprofits
have limited resources. In fact, many
of their 1,200 community-based affili-
ates have little or no full-time staff.
Despite their size, these organiza-
tions play a pivotal role in our commu-
nities. Today, the House will play a
small part in helping them continue to
serve our communities.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
leagues, the gentleman from Georgia
(Mr. LOUDERMILK) and the gentleman
from California (Mr. SHERMAN). They
have worked together diligently on
this legislation for several years and
should be commended for their efforts.
I want to thank the chairwoman, Ms.
WATERS of California, for her efforts on
this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge this legislation
to be supported, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from California (Mr. SHER-
MAN), a senior member of the Financial
Services Committee and lead cosponsor
of this bill.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for yielding time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
league from Georgia (Mr. LOUDERMILK).
It has been a pleasure working with
him on this bill, the Building Up Inde-
pendent Lives and Dreams, or BUILD,
Act. He has worked hard to get this
over the goal line and has worked in a
collaborative and bipartisan process.
We have heard from a number of
Habitat for Humanity chapters across
the Nation who make more than five
loans a year and are having difficulty
complying with the mandatory TILA/
RESPA Integrated Disclosure form.
They believe it has additional costs
and complexity, especially when they
had previously set up their systems to
deal with the old forms.
The BUILD Act is straightforward
and addresses those concerns. The bill
allows a bona fide nonprofit that
makes zero interest rate loans, like
Habitat for Humanity, the flexibility
in deciding which disclosure forms to
use.
They can either use the relatively
new TILA/RESPA Integrated Disclo-
sure form, or they can use the three
previously required forms: the Truth in
Lending form, the Good Faith Esti-
mate form, and the HUD–1 form.
This bill is supported by Habitat for
Humanity International and the Na-
tional Housing Conference.
It is a narrow tweak to ensure that
nonprofits offering zero percent inter-
est loans can focus on helping people
get housing rather than focus on re-
programming their system to deal with
the new TILA/RESPA Integrated Dis-
closure form.
This bill passed our committee 53 to
0 last year. It passed this House by
voice vote last year. It went over to
the Senate, where the Senate did what
it all too frequently does, which is
nothing.
I look forward to giving the Senate
another opportunity by sending this
bill back to them, since it has not only
overwhelming but unanimous support
here in the House of Representatives.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this bill.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
LOUDERMILK). He is not only an Air
Force veteran, but his wife came up
with the acronym for this bill.
b 1730
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
STIVERS) not only for yielding time in
support of my bill but giving the cre-
ative one in my family recognition for
the pithy acronym that goes with this
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, as has been stated, my
bill is the Building Up Independent
Lives and Dreams Act, which is also
known as the BUILD Act.
First, I thank my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle who have worked with
me to make this a strong, bipartisan
effort.
I appreciate the gentleman from
California (Mr. SHERMAN) for cospon-
soring this bill and for his work, with
our staffs working together, to make
this is a bill as perfected as we can.
I thank Chairwoman WATERS and
Ranking Member MCHENRY for recom-
mending this bill to come to the floor
for a vote.
I also thank the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) for her sup-
port and cosponsorship of this impor-
tant legislation.
Last year, it was brought to my at-
tention that certain regulations en-
acted by Dodd-Frank were placing a
significant burden on charitable orga-
nizations that provide low-cost housing
to needy families. These nonprofits
were having to spend an excessive
amount of time and resources com-
plying with these new regulations,
which were ultimately designed for
large mortgage lenders.
The time and effort that they were
spending on regulatory compliance was
taking resources away from these non-
profits’ core mission of providing af-
fordable housing.
The problem, as I learned, was that
the Dodd-Frank Act required the Con-
sumer Financial Protection Bureau to
combine the TILA loan estimate and
the RESPA closing disclosure forms
into one integrated mortgage disclo-
sure form called TRID.
While the intention of the new TRID
forms was to ensure that home buyers
received essential information about
the costs and terms of their home
loans, the unintended consequences of
this one-size-fits-all approach signifi-
cantly impacted nonprofit organiza-
tions, such as Habitat for Humanity.
The TRID rule is nearly 2,000 pages
long, very complex, and includes dis-
closure forms for things such as bal-
loon loans and adjustable rate mort-
gages. While these types of loans may
be applicable to traditional mortgage
lenders, they are not relevant to these
nonprofits. These new rules and their
associated forms have caused confusion
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.064 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3769
May 14, 2019
for home buyers, staff, and volunteers
of these charitable organizations.
To further complicate the matter,
the new TRID disclosures were de-
signed to be completed by computer
software. However, these software ap-
plications are much too costly for
many local Habitat affiliates and other
nonprofits.
The vast majority of more than 1,200
Habitat groups nationwide are small,
community-based organizations with
very small mortgage portfolios. Few, if
any, have full-time staff. These organi-
zations have experienced challenges
with the costs and the complexity of
the TRID mortgage disclosure forms.
To remedy these problems, and to
provide regulatory relief to these non-
profits, the BUILD Act exempts char-
ities from the cost and complexity of
the new TRID rule but still ensures
that the terms of these mortgage loans
are disclosed.
Mortgage lenders that make five or
fewer loans a year are already exempt
from TRID and are allowed to use the
much simpler forms that were in place
prior to Dodd-Frank. The BUILD Act
simply extends this same exemption to
nonprofits that are eligible for tax-ex-
empt charitable donations and are
making zero-interest mortgage loans,
regardless of how many mortgage loans
they are making per year.
The BUILD Act will allow local Habi-
tat facilities, and other similar non-
profits, to choose whether they use
these older but simpler forms or the
new, more complicated TRID forms.
In closing, I want to reiterate that
the purpose of this bill is to help chari-
table organizations spend more time
fulfilling their mission, which is pro-
viding low-cost housing to needy fami-
lies, and less time sitting in an office
doing regulatory paperwork.
The bill recognizes that one size does
not fit all, especially when it comes to
regulating these charities, and it gives
them the flexibility to choose which
mortgage disclosure forms work best
for them and for those they help.
As my colleague Mr. SHERMAN has al-
ready brought up, this bill passed the
Financial Services Committee and the
House unanimously last Congress. I
hope that we can repeat that again
today here in a few moments.
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in support of this important bill.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I would close by saying that the gen-
tleman from Georgia and the gen-
tleman from California have worked
very hard on a bill that passed our
committee unanimously and that helps
nonprofits accomplish their mission of
building capacity in housing, and I
urge adoption.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to reiterate my
thanks to the members of our com-
mittee, Representatives LOUDERMILK
and SHERMAN, for working together to
craft a narrow piece of legislation that
will help nonprofit organizations like
Habitat for Humanity have flexibility
on which disclosure forms they use
when they provide a zero-interest
mortgage loan to a family getting a
home of their own.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
1060, the BUILD Act, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1060, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
BANKING TRANSPARENCY FOR
SANCTIONED PERSONS ACT OF 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1037) to increase transparency
with respect to financial services bene-
fitting state sponsors of terrorism,
human rights abusers, and corrupt offi-
cials, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1037
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Banking
Transparency for Sanctioned Persons Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. REPORT ON FINANCIAL SERVICES BENE-
FITTING STATE SPONSORS OF TER-
RORISM, HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSERS,
AND CORRUPT OFFICIALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary
of the Treasury shall issue a report to the
Committees on Financial Services and For-
eign Affairs of the House of Representatives
and the Committees on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs and Foreign Relations of
the Senate that includes—
(1) a copy of any license issued by the Sec-
retary in the preceding 180 days that author-
izes a financial institution to provide finan-
cial services benefitting a state sponsor of
terrorism; and
(2) a list of any foreign financial institu-
tions that, in the preceding 180 days, know-
ingly conducted a significant transaction or
transactions, directly or indirectly, for a
sanctioned person included on the Depart-
ment of the Treasury’s Specially Designated
Nationals And Blocked Persons List who—
(A) is owned or controlled by, or acts on
behalf of, the government of a state sponsor
of terrorism; or
(B) is designated pursuant to any of the
following:
(i) Section 404 of the Russia and Moldova
Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky
Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012 (Pub-
lic Law 112–208).
(ii) Subtitle F of title XII of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 114–328, the Global
Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability
Act).
(iii) Executive Order 13818.
(b) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (a) shall be submitted in
unclassified form but may contain a classi-
fied annex.
SEC. 3. WAIVER.
The Secretary of the Treasury may waive
the requirements of section 2 with respect to
a foreign financial institution described in
paragraph (2) of such section—
(1) upon receiving credible assurances that
the foreign financial institution has ceased,
or will imminently cease, to knowingly con-
duct any significant transaction or trans-
actions, directly or indirectly, for a person
described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of such
paragraph (2); or
(2) upon certifying to the Committees on
Financial Services and Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Commit-
tees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
and Foreign Relations of the Senate that the
waiver is important to the national interest
of the United States, with an explanation of
the reasons therefor.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Act:
(1) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term ‘‘fi-
nancial institution’’ means a United States
financial institution or a foreign financial
institution.
(2) FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The
term ‘‘foreign financial institution’’ has the
meaning given that term under section
561.308 of title 31, Code of Federal Regula-
tions.
(3) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a
result, means that a person has actual
knowledge, or should have known, of the
conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
(4) UNITED STATES FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—
The term ‘‘United States financial institu-
tion’’ has the meaning given the term ‘‘U.S.
financial institution’’ under section 561.309 of
title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 5. SUNSET.
The reporting requirement under this Act
shall terminate on the date that is the end of
the 7-year period beginning on the date of
the enactment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Member
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1037, the Banking Transparency for
Sanctioned Persons Act.
This legislation requires the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to report to
Congress every 6 months a list of the
licenses that it issues to financial in-
stitutions to provide services to coun-
tries and persons subject to certain
U.S. sanctions. It also provides Con-
gress with information about foreign
financial firms that similarly provide
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.066 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3770 May 14, 2019
support to those same countries and
persons.
I support this bill because I believe
its disclosure requirements will serve
as a useful oversight tool for Congress.
Today, when the Office of Foreign As-
sets Control, or OFAC, issues a license
to a company that allows them to en-
gage in an activity that would other-
wise be prohibited by U.S. sanctions,
OFAC does not disclose those licenses.
I support the bill’s other reporting
requirement related to foreign finan-
cial firms. These lists of foreign finan-
cial institutions can provide a useful
basis for Congress to review the admin-
istration’s overall sanction strategy
and to press the administration to im-
pose restrictions on these institutions
to change their behavior.
When a nearly identical version of
this bill was considered by the Finan-
cial Services Committee last Congress,
I supported the bill’s disclosure re-
quirements, but I thought it would be
counterproductive to have the informa-
tion revealed publicly.
For example, OFAC licenses often
contain commercially sensitive infor-
mation. If companies could no longer
expect licenses to remain private, they
would be less likely to apply for them,
which would be detrimental to humani-
tarian efforts.
I didn’t think the public identifica-
tion of these foreign financial firms
would serve a useful policy purpose and
could otherwise move legal activity
into a shade of gray. For these reasons,
a Democratic amendment was adopted
in committee by voice vote to allow for
Congress to review the lists confiden-
tially.
I believe H.R. 1037, which includes
this critical change from last Congress,
would increase congressional oversight
of U.S. sanctions activity appro-
priately, and I urge my colleagues to
support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I want to express my strong support
for H.R. 1037, the Banking Trans-
parency for Sanctioned Persons Act.
The bill includes important provisions
to strengthen our national security,
and it passed unanimously last year in
the full House.
I am pleased to see this legislation
come to the floor under a new sponsor,
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
RIGGLEMAN). Although he is in his first
term, Congressman RIGGLEMAN has al-
ready made significant contributions
to the committee’s work. His leader-
ship on this bill is a case in point.
The gentleman’s legislation would re-
quire the Treasury Department to pro-
vide Congress with a copy of licenses
that authorize financial services for
state sponsors of terrorism. These li-
censes are essentially waivers, and
while sanctions laws often require con-
gressional notification when formal
waivers are issued, licenses can fall
through the cracks.
To be clear, some licenses may be de-
sirable, such as those allowing humani-
tarian relief or allowing for tailoring of
sanctions in order to better advance
our policy goals. In other cases, how-
ever, Congress may have legitimate
concerns that a sanctioned entity is
being licensed to carry out trans-
actions with U.S. persons, including
our country’s financial institutions.
This bill simply ensures that Con-
gress knows whether a license has been
issued, which will allow us to have bet-
ter oversight of the sanctions program.
In addition, Mr. Speaker, this bill re-
quires Treasury to send Congress semi-
annual reports that show which foreign
financial institutions are providing
support for sanctioned terrorists, cor-
rupt officials, and human rights abus-
ers. Although these bad actors are cut
off from American banks, we should
know whether they are evading our
measures through the use of foreign en-
tities. If Congress is made aware of
these relationships, we can work to
close those loopholes.
Again, the unanimous support these
policies have garnered previously un-
derscores their commonsense nature.
Congressman RIGGLEMAN has spent
much of his career before Congress de-
voted to protecting our national secu-
rity, and his work on this bill, H.R.
1037, deserves our support.
I urge my colleagues to support this
measure, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
RIGGLEMAN), the sponsor of the bill. He
has done great work here, and I will
give him as much time as he may con-
sume.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 1037, the Bank-
ing Transparency for Sanctioned Per-
sons Act of 2019.
I thank the chairwoman of the com-
mittee, Ms. WATERS, as well as Rank-
ing Member MCHENRY for their support
and willingness to bring this legisla-
tion to the House floor for a vote. I
also thank my colleague JOSH
GOTTHEIMER for cosponsoring this leg-
islation.
This bill requires the Department of
the Treasury to report on financial
services provided to a state sponsor of
terrorism or sanctioned person. This is
a commonsense reporting requirement
that will further assist Congress in its
oversight functions, including financial
sanctions against state sponsors of ter-
rorism, human rights abusers, and
other bad actors targeted with certain
U.S. sanctions.
This legislation is simple yet essen-
tial. It requires the Secretary of the
Treasury to submit to Congress every
180 days a report with two sets of infor-
mation: first, a list of the licenses it
issues to financial institutions to pro-
vide services to countries and persons
subject to certain U.S. sanctions, and
this would include state sponsors of
terrorism such as Iran, North Korea, or
Syria; second, Treasury would have to
provide a list of any foreign banks that
conduct significant transactions for
persons that have been sanctioned for
human rights abuses or corruption.
This report will support Congress by
ensuring that sanctions are being le-
gally and appropriately applied across
the board.
The information in these reports will
inform Congress about how sanctioned
states and individuals engage in finan-
cial transactions. Additionally, the in-
creased transparency will help us un-
derstand the impacts of sanctions on
targeted individuals.
With a clear idea of how certain for-
eign countries are undermining U.S. ef-
forts to combat corruption and human
rights atrocities, we can adjust our
sanctions policies so they have the in-
tended effects.
Finally, this bill will aid Congress
and the executive branch to tailor sec-
ondary sanctions on foreign financial
institutions, as well as better deter-
mine how those sanctions should be ef-
fectively designed and what the unin-
tended consequences might be, if any
should exist.
This will be a useful oversight tool
and a powerful disclosure requirement
that can help Congress understand ex-
isting sanctions and design a more ef-
fective program for the future.
Mr. Speaker, this bill unanimously
passed the House in the 115th Congress,
and I invite all of my colleagues to join
me today and pass H.R. 1037.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I urge
adoption of this bipartisan bill that
passed unanimously in committee and
in the House last year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1037, the Banking
Transparency for Sanctioned Persons
Act of 2019, will help ensure that Mem-
bers of Congress have the information
they need to provide more effective
oversight of the decisions made by
Treasury and OFAC and the impact
that those decisions have on sanc-
tioned persons.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. RIGGLEMAN
for bringing this bill forward, and I
urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this important piece of legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1037.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.068 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3771
May 14, 2019
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 46 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. PETERS) at 6 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 299, and
H.R. 2379.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
BLUE WATER NAVY VIETNAM
VETERANS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 299) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify presumptions
relating to the exposure of certain vet-
erans who served in the vicinity of the
Republic of Vietnam, and for other pur-
poses, as amended, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 410, nays 0,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 203]
YEAS—410
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—21
Abraham
Brooks (IN)
Budd
Cartwright
Costa
Cummings
Dingell
Graves (LA)
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Massie
Mullin
Olson
Roby
Scalise
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Sires
Swalwell (CA)
Vela
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1856
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REAUTHORIZING BULLETPROOF
VEST PARTNERSHIP GRANT PRO-
GRAM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2379) to reauthorize the Bul-
letproof Vest Partnership Grant Pro-
gram, as amended, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHN-
SON) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 400, nays 9,
not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 204]
YEAS—400
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:42 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.071 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3772 May 14, 2019
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—9
Amash
Arrington
Biggs
Duncan
Gohmert
Griffith
Harris
McClintock
Roy
NOT VOTING—22
Abraham
Aderholt
Brooks (IN)
Budd
Cartwright
Costa
Cummings
Dingell
Graves (LA)
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Massie
Mullin
Olson
Roby
Scalise
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Sires
Swalwell (CA)
Vela
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1905
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and I ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker and the
majority leader to immediately sched-
ule the born-alive bill so we can stand
up and protect the sanctity of human
life, and I ask others to join in that re-
quest.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
PRINTING OF PROCEEDINGS OF
FORMER MEMBERS PROGRAM
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the pro-
ceedings during the former Members
program be printed in the CONGRES-
SIONAL RECORD and that all Members
and former Members who spoke during
the proceedings have the privilege of
revising and extending their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
f
NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
WEEK
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, today I in-
troduced a resolution designating this
week as National Infrastructure Week.
With every day that passes, the need
for Federal infrastructure investment
grows more and more urgent. Our
roads, our bridges, our canals, our tun-
nels, our drinking water, our sewage
facilities—they are all suffering be-
cause the Federal Government has not
invested in rebuilding America’s infra-
structure.
Lives are on the line because our in-
frastructure is crumbling, and our
drinking water is not safe. Our con-
stituents are begging us to rebuild
America’s infrastructure.
Instead of that, the President is still
obsessed with building his wall. Well,
Mr. Speaker, that is not going to work
for the American people.
Americans want water infrastructure
that is not tainted with lead. They
want roads that aren’t full of potholes.
They want bridges that aren’t falling
down. They want airports and schools
that are safe.
They deserve nothing less. Let’s go
to work for the American people.
f
TRIBUTE TO REVEREND DR.
RONNIE FLOYD
(Mr. WOMACK asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, this
Sunday, the Reverend Dr. Ronnie
Floyd, senior pastor of Cross Church in
northwest Arkansas, will deliver his
final sermon in a joint service of the
many campuses at Bud Walton Arena
in Fayetteville, Arkansas.
Dr. Floyd has served as senior pastor
at Cross Church for almost 33 years. He
has presided over an unprecedented ex-
pansion of the church over four cam-
puses in Arkansas and Missouri, with a
combined membership of nearly 28,000.
Under his vision and leadership, just
under 23,000 have come to know Christ
as their personal savior, and Cross
Church has an enviable reputation of
bringing the gospel of Jesus Christ to
the Nation and the world.
Average weekly attendance has
grown from 1,800 people in 1986 to near-
ly 10,000 today.
Dr. Floyd will become the president
and CEO of the Southern Baptist Con-
vention’s executive committee on May
20 in Nashville, Tennessee.
I speak for the entire congregation of
Cross Church in wishing Dr. Floyd and
his wife, Jeana, the Lord’s blessings
during this transition to a new and ex-
citing ministry and thank him for 33
terrific years at Cross Church.
f
NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
WEEK
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.025 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3773
May 14, 2019
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
during National Infrastructure Week to
highlight the importance of investing
in a skilled infrastructure workforce.
Rebuilding our Nation’s infrastruc-
ture will require more than invest-
ments in bridges, roads, and water-
ways. It will require a workforce that
can design, build, and maintain them.
The Brookings Institution estimates
that 3 million more workers will be
needed to support our infrastructure
over the next decade.
This is a great opportunity for mil-
lions of Americans who are out of work
or underemployed. However, without
adequate training, these workers won’t
be prepared to fill open jobs and carry
out high-priority infrastructure
projects.
That is why my Career and Technical
Education Caucus co-chair, Congress-
man G.T. THOMPSON, and I are urging
congressional leadership to prioritize
workforce development in any infra-
structure investment package that
comes to this House.
CTE and apprenticeships are abso-
lutely proven strategies that provide
workers with the skills and training
that they need for in-demand jobs, and
I look forward to working with my col-
leagues to advance them in the coming
months.
f
b 1915
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL POLICE
WEEK
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to recognize May 12
through 18 as National Police Week.
We are blessed to live in a country
founded on the rule of law, and it could
not be preserved without our Nation’s
courageous police.
This week, we show gratitude to the
800,000 sworn law enforcement officers
who put their lives on the line daily for
our safety.
We also honor those who have given
their lives in the line of duty. This
year, 371 fallen heroes were added to
the National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial, including Trooper Samuel
Newton Bullard, who died serving
Surry County in North Carolina’s Fifth
District.
These brave officers’ sacrifices will
not be forgotten, and their families are
in my prayers. This Police Week, and
every week, let’s show our support for
those who risk so much to keep us safe.
f
COMMEMORATING 54TH
ANNIVERSARY OF HEAD START
(Ms. WILD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, 54 years ago,
President Lyndon Johnson launched
Head Start as part of the War on Pov-
erty, a historic effort to build a more
just, equal America.
Today, Head Start serves children
across my community, including more
than 70 children in SafeStart, a pro-
gram in my district designed for chil-
dren of parents who struggle with sub-
stance abuse that has been recognized
as a national model.
Across our country, over 30 million
children have participated in Head
Start since its founding. We have felt
the benefits throughout our society.
Study after study has shown how piv-
otal early childhood education is for
positioning children to fulfill their po-
tential later on.
Despite its record of success, Head
Start is severely underfunded today. In
my home State of Pennsylvania, only
27 percent of eligible children are able
to get a slot in a Head Start program.
I hope my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle will join me in pledging to
fight to get increased funding for Head
Start signed into law so that we renew
our commitment to its promise of a fu-
ture where every child in every ZIP
Code can live a life of opportunity.
f
RECOGNIZING MONTANA HIGHWAY
PATROL TROOPER WADE PALM-
ER DURING NATIONAL POLICE
WEEK
(Mr. GIANFORTE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, dur-
ing National Police Week, I rise to rec-
ognize police officers in Montana who
protect and serve our communities.
They put their lives on the line to keep
us safe.
Montana Highway Patrol Trooper
Wade Palmer embodies this selfless
service. A husband to Lindsey and a fa-
ther to two young daughters, Trooper
Palmer started with the patrol in 2012
and has received the patrol’s highest
honor, the Medal of Valor.
In March, Trooper Palmer located a
suspicious vehicle near Missoula. As he
sat in his cruiser, a callous coward ap-
proached Palmer and shot him repeat-
edly. Thankfully, Trooper Palmer re-
gained consciousness and is recovering
in the hospital.
As we mark National Police Week,
let us remember all who died in the
line of duty. Let us remember to pray
every day for the men and women in
blue, as well as their families. And let
us say a special prayer for Trooper
Palmer and his family.
f
REAFFIRMING OUR COMMITMENT
TO DECENCY
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, one rainy
afternoon during my campaign last
year, I was out knocking on doors. I
met a man and asked what he cared
about. He paused as the rain poured
down around us, and he uttered a single
word, ‘‘Decency.’’
Mr. Speaker, over the last several
years, we have watched as our democ-
racy sinks to new and disturbing lows.
We have seen national leaders dispense
with civility and compassion and re-
place them with cruelty. We have wit-
nessed a debasement of our traditions
and a devaluation of goodwill.
But decency, that quiet virtue, has
not disappeared. If anything, we have
mourned its absence because we know
that decency is essential for any de-
mocracy worth wanting. Decency is
that basic commitment to treat each
other charitably, to try understanding
each other, and to value our common
humanity more than our differences.
This is National Decency Day. Let us
reaffirm that commitment to one an-
other. Decency should be a starting
point of all of our conversations. It
should carry us through disagreements,
even when things get contentious. It
should guide us through the shoals of
our biggest challenges, today and every
day.
f
RECOGNIZING THE MCKINNEY
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT
SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER
PROGRAM
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to recognize the McKinney Inde-
pendent School District school re-
source officer program that was re-
cently named a model agency by the
National Association of School Re-
source Officers.
Every day, these officers go above
and beyond their job description to
educate and protect the youth of
McKinney ISD. School resource offi-
cers are a vital part of our education
system. For some students, this pro-
gram provides a positive first inter-
action with law enforcement.
We could not ask for better role mod-
els or protectors.
I ask my colleagues in the House of
Representatives to join me in thanking
the school resource officers of McKin-
ney ISD as they continue to make a
positive difference in the lives of stu-
dents across Collin County.
f
PROTECTING LABOR IN NAFTA 2.0
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to voice my grave concerns sur-
rounding the new NAFTA whose new
rebranding as the USMCA masks its
real content.
The original NAFTA devastated the
industrial Midwest and communities
from coast to coast. Manufacturing
communities were hollowed out. Fac-
tories closed. Jobs were outsourced to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.077 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3774 May 14, 2019
Mexico for cheap labor. Mexico’s peas-
ants were uprooted. Plant shutdown
after plant shutdown saw U.S. wages
and benefits plummet.
President Trump hit a nerve with
these communities with his lofty prom-
ises, promises of which we should all
remain skeptical, especially in the
trade arena.
We heard these hollow promises 25
years ago to pass the original NAFTA.
Now NAFTA 2.0 stands to make many
of the same mistakes based on false
promises of returning quality jobs with
life-sustaining wages.
This won’t happen without true labor
enforcement, but the current text of
NAFTA 2.0 falls far short of that tar-
get. That is why I plan to introduce
legislation to set the mark on labor en-
forcement on this continent under
NAFTA 2.0 and any future agreement.
The workers of this continent deserve
no less. We respect their dignity.
f
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL POLICE
WEEK
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of
National Police Week. More than 30,000
law enforcement officers from across
the country are in Washington in
honor of National Police Week.
Established by a joint resolution of
Congress in 1962, National Police Week
pays special recognition to those law
enforcement officers who have lost
their lives in the line of duty for the
safety and protection of others.
It is a time when we pause to remem-
ber officers who have made the ulti-
mate sacrifice and lost their lives in
the line of duty protecting and serving
others.
National Police Week is a collabo-
rative effort of many organizations
dedicated to honoring America’s law
enforcement community. It honors the
men and women in blue who gave ev-
erything to protect their country and
their communities.
Our officers put on their uniforms
each day knowing that they can be in
harm’s way at any moment. National
Police Week is a time to remember the
sacrifices that many officers and their
families have made.
Mr. Speaker, I thank all of our offi-
cers who answer the call to serve.
f
ENACT NATIONAL STANDARDS TO
PROTECT CHILDREN LIKE
MALEAH DAVIS
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to tell the story, very brief-
ly, of little 4-year-old Maleah Davis,
who has now been missing for almost 2
weeks.
Just a few days ago, it was said that
her dad was taking her and her younger
brother to the airport. All of a sudden,
he says she was kidnapped.
This is a little girl who was taken
away from this family by CPS last year
and, unfortunately, returned to that
family by a judge at the beginning of
this year. The little girl was abused
and had brain surgery.
All of a sudden, after being kid-
napped, the story that was told by the
father was that he was unconscious
from Friday to Saturday evening at 6
p.m.
My heart has gone out to that family
and that little girl.
I thank law enforcement in Texas
and in Houston, along with Texas
EquuSearch and other volunteers who
poured their hearts out to find this lit-
tle girl.
We now know that this individual is
under arrest. Blood has been found in
the apartment. Other items or activity
suggest that maybe that wasn’t the
true story.
I believe, as the chair of the Congres-
sional Children’s Caucus, we must de-
fine how CPS returns children to their
families, and there must be national
standards.
I pray for the little girl, and I pray
for those who love her.
f
SUPPORTING E–2 VISA HOLDERS
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of the E–2 visa
holders and their families who have
been ignored by our Nation’s immigra-
tion laws.
E–2 visa holders are required to be
business owners, job creators, and risk
takers. They are filled with the Amer-
ican spirit that makes this country
great. And yet, their children are un-
fairly forced to leave this country on
their 21st birthday.
The E–2 children have no protection,
no leniency, and unlike DACA recipi-
ents, they receive no attention from
the mainstream media.
We cannot continue to put the chil-
dren of illegal aliens before the chil-
dren of legal aliens. That is why I in-
troduced the E–2 Visa Improvement
Act, which will do two things: create a
path to legal permanent residency
after 10 years in the U.S., and allow
children of E–2 visa holders to stay in
the country until 26 years of age and to
apply for work authorization.
I urge my colleagues to support these
simple, commonsense reforms that will
make a huge difference in the lives of
law-abiding immigrants who are hiring
and helping carry our economy for-
ward.
f
HONORING FARMINGTON ROBOTICS
TEAM
(Mrs. CRAIG asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the outstanding
work of the Farmington High School
Rogue Robotics Team, a local robotics
team that built a functioning power
wheelchair for 2-year-old Cillian Jack-
son.
Cillian was born with a genetic dis-
order that makes it very difficult for
him to get around. Buying a wheel-
chair would have been cost-prohibitive
for his family, so his parents turned to
the students of Farmington High
School for their expertise and inge-
nuity.
The students of Farmington rose to
the occasion and reimagined a Power
Wheels into a power wheelchair by out-
fitting it with a new seat and a
joystick that allow Cillian to move
around on his own.
I congratulate the Farmington robot-
ics team for their ingenuity and hard
work in making this possible. They are
an example of what is possible when
communities come together and share
their talents and ideas to help our
neighbors.
f
b 1930
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor those brave men and
women who selflessly serve our com-
munities as sworn officers in our local
police departments.
This week is National Police Week.
To say that police officers are heroes
would simply be an understatement.
Their work at times puts them in ex-
tremely dangerous circumstances
where they are faced with life-or-death
decisions. They, of course, know this
and go back to work keeping us safe
every day.
That was true late last year for three
Lancaster City Police Officers—Andrew
Williams, Matthew Caple, and Todd
Dickinson—when a man visiting Lan-
caster fell short of breath and began
leaning against a building. The officers
performed CPR and used a defibrillator
to stabilize him and save his life.
It is people like Detective Chris
Jones of East Lampeter Township Po-
lice Department, who is working to end
human trafficking, and Lower Windsor
Township Patrolman Mark Jackson,
working diligently to stop aggressive
drivers.
One of the Lancaster City police offi-
cers who saved that man last year said:
‘‘We did what we had to do.’’
But we know they do not have to.
They could choose any other profes-
sion. They choose to keep us safe, and
for that, we are grateful.
f
NATIONAL DECENCY DAY
(Mr. ZELDIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.079 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3775
May 14, 2019
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise with a growing number of Ameri-
cans in celebrating National Decency
Day, a call to action to engage in civil
discussion in the midst of bitter divi-
siveness.
As Americans, we cherish our free-
dom to dissent, but we must always
bear in mind that these debates should
be productive and substantive.
Lisa Cholnoky, a part-time resident
of my district, has championed this be-
lief in founding her Campaign for De-
cency. This campaign, which began on
Shelter Island in my district, has now
spread as far as Hawaii and Alaska.
This campaign sets an example for
all of us to abide by across our country
and here in Congress as we strive to
reach across the aisle in a bipartisan
fashion.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Cholnoky
for championing this issue and empow-
ering so many Americans to do the
same.
f
HONORING SERGEANT KELVIN
ANSARI
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Sergeant
Kelvin Ansari, who passed away in the
line of duty on Saturday night at the
age of 50.
On Saturday night, Sergeant Ansari
and Officer Douglas Thomas arrived to
investigate a robbery in downtown Sa-
vannah. Both officers returned to the
scene later that night after receiving a
description of the suspect’s car, who
they thought had left the scene. How-
ever, the individual was still inside the
car and opened fire. Both police offi-
cers were struck, but Sergeant Ansari
later succumbed to his injuries.
Joining the police department in Sa-
vannah in 2008, Sergeant Ansari had
previously served in the United States
Army for 21 years. He was a father of
four, a husband, and a leader who dedi-
cated so much of his life to protecting
our country and our community.
It is unfortunate in times like these
that we are reminded of the danger
that our police officers face each day in
keeping our communities safe.
Sergeant Ansari’s family and friends,
as well as the entire Savannah Police
Department, are in our thoughts and
prayers during this most difficult time.
f
NATIONAL CHARTER SCHOOLS
WEEK
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise this
evening to recognize National Charter
Schools Week, a week where we honor
the opportunity to bring real edu-
cational choice to millions of families
across America.
Georgia has a rich history of school
choice and in charter schools. Earlier
this year, I had the opportunity to visit
Drew Charter School in Atlanta, Geor-
gia.
Serving more than 1,800 students
from pre-K through 12th grade, Drew
Charter School has implemented a
project-based learning approach that is
helping all students reach their highest
potential.
The numbers speak for themselves.
Drew Charter School has a 100 percent
graduation rate. No wonder there is a
wait list to attend this wonderful
school.
While speaking with administrators,
touring the beautiful campus, and vis-
iting a few classrooms, it was evident
that Drew Charter School has excelled
in their mission to provide a quality
education.
As the senior Republican on the
Early Childhood, Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Subcommittee, I
look forward to sharing my support for
charter schools and everything they do
for our young students. By supporting
charter schools, we are putting kids
first in education, not politicians more
concerned about power and money.
f
CHINA IS ONE OF THE LARGEST
THREATS IN THE 21ST CENTURY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. VAN
DREW). Under the Speaker’s announced
policy of January 3, 2019, the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. YOHO) is rec-
ognized for 60 minutes as the designee
of the minority leader.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I would like
to thank my colleagues for being here,
and I want to start tonight out.
We are going to spend an hour high-
lighting what many of us on Capitol
Hill view as one of the largest threats
in the 21st century, and that is a China
that has grown wealthy in building
their military might.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from New York (Mr. ZELDIN), my good
friend.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
To start off tonight, I just want to
recognize that today is the 1-year anni-
versary of the opening of the U.S. Em-
bassy in Jerusalem. I was honored to
be there in person last year for this
very special moment. Jerusalem should
be recognized as the undivided, unques-
tionable capital of the Jewish state.
This was a bold move by this Presi-
dent not just to fulfill promises of
Presidents past and to fulfill U.S. law;
most importantly, it was the right
thing to do.
In addition to its religious impor-
tance, Jerusalem is also the capital,
the home, the location of the Israeli
Knesset and offices and residences of
the Israeli Prime Minister and Presi-
dent.
Moving our Embassy set an impor-
tant precedent for other nations to fol-
low as well.
I commend the President. I thank
him for following through on his sup-
port and commitment. I thought it was
important tonight to highlight that
today is the 1-year anniversary of that
important opening of the Embassy in
Jerusalem.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs.
HARTZLER).
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to thank the gentleman
from Florida for hosting this impor-
tant Special Order today.
The United States is currently facing
a very real and dangerous threat from
the People’s Republic of China. The
Chinese Government is not just using a
whole-of-government approach but,
rather, a whole-of-nation approach to
achieve global influence.
Today, I would like to focus on two
areas of concern: Chinese military de-
velopment, and its influence operations
targeting U.S. academia and research.
China is rapidly modernizing its mili-
tary in order to improve its anti-ac-
cess/area denial radius, power force
projection, and nuclear capabilities,
with the goal of complete military
modernization by 2035. Investments in
nuclear and power projection capabili-
ties have expanded China’s reach be-
yond the Pacific region and into other
parts of the globe, demonstrating its
desire to conduct offensive operations.
Here are a few facts about China’s
military capabilities:
China has the largest navy in the re-
gion, with more than 300 ships. To put
this in perspective, the United States
currently operates 289 ships.
China’s first aircraft carrier will
likely enter the fleet this year, and its
second aircraft carrier is already under
construction, paving the way for China
to have a multicarrier force.
China operates the third largest avia-
tion force in the world, with more than
2,700 total aircraft.
Its first fifth-generation stealth
fighter entered service in February of
last year.
China maintains a stockpile of nu-
clear weapons and continues to mod-
ernize its arsenal.
China has claimed to successfully
test its first hypersonic aircraft.
China is using the S–400 missile de-
fense system, strengthening its A2/AD
radius.
These capabilities, coupled with ter-
ritorial and maritime disputes in the
South and East China Seas, pose seri-
ous concerns for the region. Not only
do we have a commitment to our allies,
such as Taiwan and Japan, but the Pa-
cific is the most heavily trafficked re-
gion for trade and commerce. Aggres-
sive maritime and military actions by
China, such as building man-made is-
lands, not only threaten regional sta-
bility, but also global stability.
China is also expanding its military
operations beyond the Pacific. In Au-
gust of 2017, China opened its first
overseas military base in Djibouti and
is actively seeking other overseas mili-
tary basing opportunities. According to
a recently released Department of De-
fense report on China’s military activi-
ties, China has sought to expand its
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.081 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3776 May 14, 2019
military basing access in the Middle
East, Southeast Asia, and the Western
Pacific. China’s improving military ca-
pabilities, evolving focus towards ex-
panding its operational reach, and es-
tablishment of overseas bases will in-
crease China’s ability to sustain oper-
ations abroad and enhance deterrence.
In order to combat China’s military
modernization aggression, the United
States must continue to nurture our
relationships with partner nations and
protect our technological and military
edge here at home. This brings me to
the second area that I would like to
discuss: China’s influence operations
that target and steal sensitive U.S. in-
formation.
One of China’s largest targets in the
United States is our Nation’s academic
institutions. According to the Depart-
ment of Defense, almost a quarter of
foreign efforts to steal sensitive infor-
mation happen through academic insti-
tutions. China targets U.S. universities
by exploiting our student visa program
in order to gain access and steal sen-
sitive, proprietary, and classified infor-
mation. Many of these universities are
conducting research on behalf of the
Departments of Defense and Energy.
What is even more alarming is that,
under Chinese law, citizens are re-
quired to provide data, information,
and technological support or assistance
to the Chinese Government upon re-
quest. This means that China can in-
timidate and coerce its citizens to pro-
vide information. This information is
then funneled into China’s military re-
search and development.
The Chinese Government is also
using members of its military to col-
laborate with researchers across the
globe. The report entitled ‘‘Picking
Flowers, Making Honey: The Chinese
Military’s Collaboration with Foreign
Universities’’ revealed that, over the
past 10 years, China’s military, also
known as the PLA, has sponsored more
than 2,500 military scientists and engi-
neers to study abroad in countries
worldwide.
An analysis of peer-reviewed articles
coauthored by PLA researchers found
that they collaborate with researchers
in the United States more than any
other nation. These individuals often
mask their PLA and Chinese Com-
munist Party ties, allowing them to
work at top universities without the
schools’ knowledge of military affili-
ation.
In addition to stealing sensitive U.S.
research, China has established more
than 100 Confucius Institutes across
the United States. These educational
institutions are funded and run by the
Chinese Government and teach Chinese
language, culture, and history to
American students. FBI Director Chris-
topher Wray testified before Congress
that China is actively using nontradi-
tional methods, such as Confucius In-
stitutes, as outposts of Chinese over-
seas intelligence and influence oper-
ations.
Mr. Speaker, I have only highlighted
two issues of concern. There are many
other concerns that I hope my col-
leagues will discuss today.
In order to address the challenges
posed by China, we need a whole-of-na-
tion approach. This is not just a mili-
tary concern. We need our universities
and constituents to be aware that
China is active in all corners of the
globe, including the United States.
Mr. Speaker, I thank these gentle-
men for bringing us here today to shed
light on this very important topic on
the challenges we face from China.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from Missouri for her com-
ments. Those are very well pointed-out
facts that the American people, if they
knew this was going on, would stop
buying ‘‘made in China.’’
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS), my good
friend.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend and my colleague from Florida
for leading this Special Order this
evening because I am not quite sure
that we talk enough about China here
on the floor of the House.
If you look at any time horizon,
short-term or long-term, China is the
most serious challenge to our Nation’s
interests. There are other challenges,
to be sure, but let’s take a look at what
China is about.
Geographically, it is similar in size
to the United States.
It is economically enormous, with
more than $12 trillion GDP, which is
second only to ours on an annual basis.
And on this point, it is important to
remember that they hold $1.1 trillion
worth of U.S. debt.
They are militarily mighty. The
PLA, People’s Liberation Army, is the
largest force on Earth, with more than
2 million personnel.
Gigantically populous, with more
than 1.4 billion people, it dwarfs the
size of our own Nation’s 325 million
people.
b 1945
Is it possible that those numbers in-
dicate a stronger China than is actu-
ally the case? Perhaps. After all, hun-
dreds of millions of Chinese citizens
who don’t live in the nation’s most
prosperous cities are still living in pov-
erty and probably will continue to do
so for some time to come.
It is also true that China’s military
today, while large in number, does not
have the advanced capabilities of our
own military. But these shortcomings
are almost certainly temporary, and
we should assume that China will con-
tinue to close these gaps relative to
our own Nation’s power.
So what should we do? I want to
highlight four areas of concern, vis-a-
vis China.
First of all, the South China Sea.
Perhaps most, importantly, we need to
push back on any Chinese efforts to
turn the South China Sea into a Chi-
nese lake. They have been doing this
for decades now.
China is rapidly modernizing its
naval capabilities and builds man-made
artificial islands near the Spratly ar-
chipelago.
Well over $5 trillion worth of com-
merce passes through the South China
Sea each year.
We must continue to unequivocally
assert U.S. rights to fly, sail, and oth-
erwise operate in these international
waters, and we also must make sure
that our allies do, as well.
Taiwan, we must continue to reject
China’s efforts to bully Taiwan into ac-
cepting a ‘‘one-China’’ policy.
Taiwan has been a great friend to the
United States for the past 40 years that
the Taiwan Relations Act has been in
effect, and it is a key strategic partner.
It is uniquely positioned to buffer
China’s eastward expansion into the
Pacific.
We need to continue to strengthen
our critical relationship with Taiwan.
Huawei and other Chinese technology
companies jeopardize the security of
our Nation’s telecommunications net-
work. I strongly support the Trump ad-
ministration’s efforts to prevent
Huawei from participating in U.S. 5G
modernization efforts, and I hope that
Secretary of State Pompeo will be able
to convince our Western European al-
lies to do likewise.
Finally, I will talk about trade. This
subject is very much in the news today.
I am cautiously optimistic that the
Trump administration’s carrot-and-
stick approach to trade negotiations
will bear fruit, even if the tariffs are
painful in the short term.
At the very least, I appreciate the
fact that we finally have a President
who is willing to confront the Chinese
about decades’ worth of bad behavior.
China has been a notorious currency
manipulator ever since it began to
modernize its economy in the late sev-
enties. It also shamelessly rips off our
Nation’s intellectual property. We sim-
ply can’t engage in mutually pros-
perous trade with China if that nation
refuses to play by the rules.
My last remarks on trade are impor-
tant because they highlight an impor-
tant point that I hope does not get lost
in this discussion: Our Nation can and
should aim for a mutually beneficial
relationship with China. In fact, our
two nations can continue to grow rich
together.
Just because China will be our geo-
political rivals in the coming years and
decades does not mean that they will
necessarily become our enemies. But
having said that, we must not be under
any illusions about China’s great power
ambition, and we must not give an inch
when China challenges our own Na-
tion’s prosperity or our interests.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage our Mem-
bers in this body and I encourage the
administration to continue to do all we
can to push back on China’s unfair
trade practices and attempt to turn the
South China Sea into a lake controlled
by China, thereby manipulating tril-
lions of dollars worth of trade.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from Arizona, who pointed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.083 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3777
May 14, 2019
out some great things. We are going to
talk about the South China Sea, or the
East Sea, and what China has done.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. PERRY).
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Florida for hosting
this Special Order tonight on China.
I was watching the news today like
most other folks are, and part of the
news says that the tariffs are the prob-
lem and the President is the problem.
That is what they are literally saying
in the United States of America today.
Ladies and gentlemen, the tariffs
aren’t the problem and the President
isn’t the problem. China is the prob-
lem. They have been the problem for a
long time, but nobody in the United
States has been willing to confront it.
For many years, China has pursued
industrial policies and unfair trade
practices that include dumping, dis-
criminatory nontariff barriers, forced
technology transfer, overcapacity, and
industrial subsidies, all this to cham-
pion Chinese firms and make it lit-
erally impossible for American firms to
compete. People say: Well, all these
jobs went to China. All these jobs went
overseas.
How do you think that happened? It
happened because China is not a rea-
sonable actor. They are not playing
fair. They have not been playing fair,
and they have been taking advantage
of the United States and other coun-
tries for a very, very long time. Fi-
nally, there is a President who is will-
ing to confront them.
Let’s talk about China as the world’s
largest principal IP infringer, and their
government actually encourages the
theft of intellectual property.
People talk about the value of these
tariffs. Nobody likes the tariffs in the
United States. We don’t want to have
to do this, but we have limited options.
They said the cost of the tariffs.
Well, how about the cost, annually, of
IP theft, anywhere from $225 billion to
$600 billion, including counterfeit
goods, pirated software, and theft of
trade secrets. That is every year, re-
gardless of any tariff in the United
States. That is just what the Chinese
steal, sanctioned by the Chinese Gov-
ernment.
Our IP-intensive industries support
at least 45 million U.S. jobs. Are we
going to wait until all those head to
China as well? For every high-tech job
in the United States, five jobs are cre-
ated indirectly in a local economy.
Actually, China accounts for 87 per-
cent of counterfeit goods seized coming
into the United States. It starts mak-
ing you wonder why we allow any of
their goods to come into the United
States.
China conducts and supports cyber
intrusions into the United States’ com-
puter networks to gain access to valu-
able research and business information
so Chinese companies can just literally
copy products and processes. What are
some examples? Well, just things like a
vacuum cleaner to solar panel tech-
nology.
Does anybody wonder why we buy so
many solar panels from China? They
stole them from us, and then they are
selling them back to us. Who is the fool
here?
And how about the blueprints to the
Boeing C–17? Anybody deployed around
the world lately in military uniform?
It is good to know that China has the
plans.
Hackers from China with ties to the
government have been accused of
breaking into gas companies, steel
companies, and chemical companies. A
Chinese Government company was in-
dicted for stealing the secret chemical
makeup of the color white from Du-
Pont.
China developed its J–20 fighter
plane, a plane similar to Lockheed-
Martin’s F–22 Raptor, shortly after a
Chinese national was indicted for steal-
ing technical data from Lockheed-Mar-
tin, including plans for the Raptor.
In 2010, Google went public in an-
nouncing that it had been hacked by
the Chinese Government; and in De-
cember of 2018, two Chinese nationals
were charged with hacking more than
45 companies in coordination with Chi-
na’s state security service.
These are just a few of the cases.
Just a couple of months ago, in The
Wall Street Journal, it was reported
that 27 universities located across the
United States were targeted by Chinese
hackers due to their involvement in re-
search of military-use maritime tech-
nology. You heard some of the speakers
just recently talk about China’s new-
found military and naval prowess.
Let’s go into some of the CFIUS re-
ports, the Committee on Foreign In-
vestment in the United States. CFIUS
ordered a Chinese health data analytics
firm backed by Tencent to sell its ma-
jority stake in PatientsLikeMe, which
helps connect people suffering from the
same illness.
Why would China hack that, you
wonder? Well, if you can think about
any data that you have—your very,
very personal data, including sick-
nesses that you might have—China ac-
tually wants that kind of stuff, and
they don’t have good intentions for it.
CFIUS blocked the $1.2 billion pur-
chase of MoneyGram, a money transfer
firm, by Ant Financial, an Alibaba af-
filiate, on national security grounds.
In 2017, American officials warned
that DJI, a leading drone maker, was
probably sending data on critical infra-
structure back to China’s Government.
The U.S. Army barred DJI drones from
its bases. But if you don’t know you
have a DJI drone and you are operating
on a military base, you can probably be
self-assured that China is collecting
the information and you are actually
helping them.
How about this? In 2018, American
Government agencies were banned
from using cameras made by Hikvision,
the world’s biggest manufacturer of
closed-circuit TV kits. We actually had
to ban them, and the government was
buying them. They are spying on us in
our own government buildings because
we are buying their cameras, and we
know it is happening.
It is incredible, ladies and gentlemen.
China is the problem. It is not the
President and it is not the tariff. It is
what China does.
Then there is the race to 5G, which
America must win. China is on pace to
be the global leader in 5G technology.
That is just how it is. They actually
beat Ericsson, and now a spy state—a
spy state—is on track to be the leader
in 5G technology.
We simply must work with our allies
to stop the introduction of Huawei
equipment—that is who is making it—
into foreign networks. It threatens the
integrity of personal data, government
secrets, military operations, and demo-
cratic principles.
When the United States military op-
erates around the world, we use the
backbone architecture oftentimes to
communicate. If that backbone com-
munications architecture has been
made by Huawei, we might as well just
be telling China exactly what we are
doing. Our tactic, technique, proce-
dures are all given up immediately to
China.
Social media, medical services, gam-
ing, location services, payment, and
banking information, every single
thing that happens over the internet, if
it is happening over a Huawei 5G net-
work, they are knowing about it.
The Pentagon, just last month,
warned of ‘‘near persistent data trans-
fer back to China.’’ Near persistent, so
just continuous data transfer. And they
use this information to coerce and pun-
ish not only their own citizens, but
people in countries around the world.
And again, the 2017 intelligence law
in China requires any organization or
citizen to support, assist, and cooper-
ate with the security services of Chi-
na’s communist government.
Now, let’s be clear here. We are not
talking about the Chinese people, but
we are talking about the Communist
Party in China. We are talking about
their leadership, and we are talking
about their government. That is who
we are talking about there.
Again, the Chinese dominance in 5G
threatens future U.S. military oper-
ations. We will not be able to operate.
We will have to set up our own network
everywhere we go where Huawei is re-
sponsible for 5G networking. These are
just national security risks that hap-
pen in Europe and across Africa.
You need to know, as well, that
Huawei’s equipment does not inter-
operate with any other vendor. So if
you are using Huawei equipment, even
if it is 4G, it doesn’t interoperate with
anything, so you are forced to buy
Huawei for 5G if you want to advance.
Other people have talked about Chi-
na’s global influence—unrestricted
warfare—in every single paradigm.
Ladies and gentlemen, the tariffs are
not the problem. Unfortunately, China
has been in an economic war with us
for about four decades.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.084 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3778 May 14, 2019
The President is not the problem.
China and this malign behavior to us
and democracies around the globe are
the problem.
I am glad we are finally talking
about it. I hope that the rest of our col-
leagues here in the House of Represent-
atives will join us in researching and
becoming aware and informed about
China’s activities and then supporting
policies that deal with China’s malign
activities in our universities, tech-
nology transfer, and—you name it.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
good friend from Pennsylvania, who is
a brigadier general, and he has been on
the front lines, for those remarks.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks on my
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I would like
to continue on the rise of China and
why it is important.
I think we have heard some great
ideas today and some great dialogue,
but this is something the American
people need to pay attention to. This is
something that our legislators need to
pay attention to. This is something
that we hear over and over again.
I have had the pleasure of being in
Congress for 7 years, chairing the Asia,
the Pacific, and Nonproliferation Sub-
committee in the last Congress, and I
am the lead Republican in this Con-
gress. The information we hear over
and over again doesn’t get better. In
fact, what we find out is a more aggres-
sive China that has raised all pretenses
of the past, and I will talk about that.
Before I go into this too much, I
want to start with this: China has an
amazing history that spans thousands
of years. Its culture has stayed, for the
most part, intact until the 19th cen-
tury.
b 2000
At one point, China and most of Eur-
asia was under the control of Genghis
Khan and the Mongolian Empire for
over 100 years before the Khan dynasty
lost to the prevailing emperors in the
19th century. I bring this up to counter
China’s nine dashed historical lines
that they are making claim in the
South China Sea and now their claim
that they are now making near Arctic
territory.
Later on in this dialogue, I want to
talk about that because China predi-
cates everything by saying: ‘‘Well, we
historically have sailed in the South
China Sea; therefore, it is ours.’’ Now
China is saying they are near the Arc-
tic, so being near that, they want to
claim that as theirs when international
law says it is not so.
In fact, the Philippines took China to
court over the South China Seas, and I
will have some maps here that we will
discuss later.
China went from a major economic
power in the 18th century to a nation
addicted to opium and taken over by
European colonial powers and Japanese
imperialism. During the 19th century,
China’s ruling class allowed their coun-
try to be taken over by European colo-
nial powers while over 90 percent of
their male population became addicted
to opium.
And I want to highlight that because
we are going to talk about the fentanyl
and the opium that are coming into
this country and what country they are
coming from.
The cultural heritage and social fab-
ric of China decayed, and China entered
into a peasant state isolated from the
world, for the most part, during the
next 70 years. This truly was a century
of shame.
The PLA, the People’s Liberation
Army, emerged in the twenties, in fact,
in 1927. They will have a 100-year anni-
versary highlighting that in 2027.
Mao Zedong was a favored member of
the PLA. He later became the Chair-
man of the Communist Party of China.
He promised communism would be the
savior of China, but, unfortunately, for
the 70 to 80 million people who died
under Mao’s policy, for them, it was a
disaster.
Mao did set a 100-year plan, though,
for China to regain their stature lost.
Maoism became a belief for many,
which seems bizarre, knowing that his-
tory records millions of people’s deaths
were credited to his policies.
Then, a foreign policy by President
Nixon and then-Secretary of State
Henry Kissinger invited China into the
modern 20th century. Many today look
back and realize that this was a mas-
sive misstep in foreign policy. The
hope was that China would become a
responsible partner in the modern
world, but, unfortunately, China
thrived at the expense of the United
States and many other nations with
heavily lopsided, one-way favored trade
deals that favored China but nobody
else. In the process, China became very
strong and very wealthy.
Maoism gave way to the era of Deng
Xiaoping, who realized at the time
China could not compete with the U.S.
or Japan in intellectual capacity or in
manufacturing, but he had the fore-
sight to corner the market in rare
earth minerals. Deng Xiaoping’s saying
was: Bide your time and hide your
strength. Today, China has virtually
cornered the rare earth market that
Deng Xiaoping spoke of in the 1980s.
In fact, the F–35s today, our highest
tech fighters, the highest tech in the
world, have been copied by China via
intellectual theft. And the rare earth
metals, the weight of an F–35 is ap-
proximately 10 percent. This is ap-
proximately 4,000 pounds.
Now, get this. Ninety percent of
these metals come directly from China.
The other 10 percent come from coun-
tries that get these metals from China.
So Deng Xiaoping fulfilled a promise
he made.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Nebraska (Mr. FORTENBERRY).
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding. I
thank the gentleman for conducting
this Special Order. I appreciate the
gentleman inviting me to come down
here.
Just a few observations, if you will.
As I have watched the speeches to-
night, there has been a litany of con-
cerns about China’s aggression, China’s
positioning, China’s covert activities,
China’s willingness to engage in intel-
lectual theft, China’s pervasive influ-
ence all around the world.
I have been to China once. I found it
to be highly engaging. I found the peo-
ple that we were with to be very wel-
coming and warm. I am very grateful
and try to be attentive to China’s long-
suffering and rich cultural history. And
as China tells us, there is room enough
in the Pacific for two superpowers, and
I want to return to that point.
When I looked out of the window of
the place where I was staying in Bei-
jing, it looked as though fog had set in.
But it wasn’t fog; it was pollution. The
air was so thick, you could hardly see
maybe 20 feet. If you live in Beijing, it
takes 5 years off your life because of
the pollution.
In fact, I had one Chinese person
whisper to me: ‘‘What is the point of
all this economic development if it
kills you?’’ And I really wanted to tell
him: ‘‘Please, don’t say that too loud-
ly.’’
The point is that China has engaged
in a series of unfair subsidies that cre-
ate an unlevel playing field for trade.
China’s very system, a capitalistic-
communist hybrid system is very dif-
ferent than ours. They are state play-
ers that receive direct subsidies that
we don’t have. The indirect cost of not
having environmental regulation is a
form of subsidy to industry. Low labor
standards, the exploitation of persons,
is another, and on and on.
So we can walk through the financial
balance sheet as to who has what tariff
and who doesn’t, and who subsidized
this and who doesn’t, but, fundamen-
tally, there are things in that equation
that we, perhaps, haven’t counted.
Another reality here is China has as
their reason for being, it seems now, an
economic nationalism. Now, we do, too,
in America. Economics is important to
us, but it stands alongside a spectrum
of values of personal liberty, the exer-
cise of opportunity, and the ability to
engage in communal activity, free as-
sociations. We don’t even think about
these things.
These are very, very different propo-
sitions in China. One places himself at
the service of the larger idea of the
state. The person is subservient to the
larger idea of the state.
Mr. YOHO. Exactly.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. And the person
can operate within a certain band of
liberties.
I saw it. People can move around.
People can visit things.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.086 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3779
May 14, 2019
But it is a certain band of liberties
that, if you violate that, step beyond
it, you contradict the nature of the
system and could pay a very heavy
price.
We see this in human rights viola-
tions, the lack of certain freedoms that
we enjoy that we think are consistent
with human dignity. And this is how it
manifests itself.
I know you, Mr. YOHO, are very at-
tentive to the issue of development,
sustainable economic development,
particularly for the world’s poor, to
conserve our resources, to use the best
of the market systems for empower-
ment of space, for the flourishing of
the individual. That then creates the
opportunity for just governance and a
healthy nationalism, and that is our
ideal.
So, before the State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Sub-
committee of the Appropriations Com-
mittee, recently, Secretary Pompeo ap-
peared, and I asked him a question. I
said: Mr. Secretary, how much does
China give in foreign assistance?
He had one of those moments where
he didn’t exactly know how to answer.
I wasn’t asking a question in order for
him to give an answer, because we all
know the answer: It is pretty minimal.
Mr. YOHO. It is.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. The United
States gives away about $25 billion a
year, and that is in non-security assist-
ance alone: trying to help the poor, to
feed the poor, trying to create a space
for food security, sustainable agri-
culture, conservation, medical care for
the sickest around the world.
We do this because it is our impulse,
our humanitarian impulse. We just
don’t sit around while other people die.
We also do it because it facilitates re-
lationships, economical and cultural.
And, finally, when you have the factors
that lead to stable societies, it is in our
own security interest and the security
of the world. So, for these reasons, we
do these things.
So I asked the Secretary: How much
does China give? It might be a sprin-
kling here or there. I don’t exactly
know the number. But for a country
with this size of an economy, with this
amount of power, with this amount of
growth, with this amount of pervasive
activity all around the world, particu-
larly in the developing nations, there
comes a set of responsibilities along
with that.
I think that is really part of the at-
tention here, underlying this current
trade dispute. What are we both vying
for?
I agree with the Chinese that there
should be room enough for two super-
powers in the Pacific, but you have got
to come to some alignment about what
it means to be in a fair, reciprocal rela-
tionship.
We have to do a better job of respect-
ing the space of other people’s history
and tradition in the way they want to
organize themselves around governance
while, at the same time, upholding this
fundamental principle of human dig-
nity, without which things just col-
lapse into transactional relations that
can come and go, or worse, when they
are gone, lead to potential conflict.
We need a healthy relationship with
China. We have gone through a litany
of complaints about China tonight, but
there are a couple other complaints I
want to have, and it is looking inward
at ourselves.
I think it is time for American busi-
nesses to do business in America.
Mr. YOHO. All right. You are singing
a great song that I have shared with
the AmChams, I have shared with
other countries, and it is our philos-
ophy of ABC. When you go to manufac-
ture, it is anywhere but China.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. There is a
small manufacturing facility in my
district. They make a fairly generic,
standardized product. I was a little sur-
prised that they didn’t have a relation-
ship with the Chinese, and they said:
‘‘Oh, no. That R&D is rip-off and dupli-
cate.’’
Mr. YOHO. That is exactly right.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. ‘‘That is why
we won’t deal with them.’’
That is a sad reality, because we
ought to be able to deal, using a fair
set of rules, with people who may be
doing something better than we are
and we do something better than they
do, and we can benefit in reciprocal
fashion.
But it has gotten so disordered be-
cause we shifted manufacturing there,
and a lot of big businesses around this
country make a lot of money off of
poor environmental standards and poor
labor standards imposed on other peo-
ple.
Mr. YOHO. Exactly.
Can I get you to yield?
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Sure.
Mr. YOHO. You are leading into
where I was going.
In 1990, President Clinton rec-
ommended China’s entry into the WTO
on a developing nation status. Yet
today, they are the second largest
economy in the world—second to the
U.S.—and they are still a developing
nation status. Yet they have a blue-
water navy.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. So ask our-
selves why. What are the incentives
around here to change this?
Mr. YOHO. And they have a Moon
program.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Well, why do
we allow this to continue?
Mr. YOHO. Why do we allow it?
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Well, could it
be that there are a lot of big-time
transactions going on in our system
itself that benefit a few big multi-
nationals that have taken their manu-
facturing and planted it over there?
They make the stuff, and we buy the
stuff.
And this is the third point I want to
make to you, which is, again, a little
bit of self-reflection on our own role in
this.
They make the stuff; we buy the
stuff. We run up debt; they have the
cash; they buy the debt.
So here we find ourselves in this very
dysfunctional marriage of having shift-
ed vast amounts of productive re-
sources there because, supposedly, we
can’t make this more efficiently—sup-
posedly. Really?
Mr. YOHO. Right. I don’t buy into
that either, and I am glad you brought
that up.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. So we run up
the debt, and they hold the debt.
And what is debt? Well, none of us
around here really wants to face it—on
our side of the aisle either, Repub-
licans. It is a form of taxation.
Mr. YOHO. It is.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. It is just hid-
den from everyone. And the manifesta-
tion of it is a wealth shift of our coun-
try’s assets into the hands of other
people.
So we are talking about the military
buildup. We are talking about the ex-
ploitation of resources, particularly in
Africa, with no consideration of the en-
vironmental impact and no attacking
of the subsequent problem of structural
poverty that existed in a lot of places.
b 2015
It is just taking things out and leav-
ing not much behind, and that is not
fair to the world’s poor. The problem,
again, is one of self-reflection that we
have to have both in terms of the re-
sponsibility that America’s business
has because we have provided the infra-
structure and the systems, through
very large public subsidies, so they can
thrive. It is incumbent upon them to
take responsibility. Maybe it is time
for American businesses to do business
in America.
Secondly, is this issue of debt. Now,
if this tension prolongs and the reality
that China has a stick, and they start
to refuse or dump treasuries, what is
that going to do? Interest rates will go
up.
Mr. YOHO. That is right.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker,
that is an impact on us, but it is one
we are going to have to live with be-
cause we have done it to ourselves.
There are a couple of lessons here: fair
trade, mutual respect, smart trade,
both people benefit.
Secondly, America’s businesses will
not get this public subsidy from us any
longer through unfair trade practices
that we allow.
The third lesson is: an honest con-
frontation about what debt really is. It
is a hidden form of taxes, shifting the
wealth assets of this country elsewhere
into places like China, which we are
complaining about are not using those
assets in a way that we would like to
see in a productive manner.
There is lots of blame to go around
here, but I want to thank the gen-
tleman for the opportunity to at least
start to unpack this in an honest way.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate
the gentleman coming out.
I see this as a series of Special Orders
on China, because the American people
need to know this. When they go to a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.088 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3780 May 14, 2019
shelf and buy something that is cheap,
and they look at that and it says,
‘‘made in China,’’ they are feeding this
trade imbalance. So they are partly re-
sponsible for that.
As the gentleman well pointed out, if
I fast forward to Xi Jinping, to the cur-
rent era right now, the estimate is that
there is a $300-plus-billion—I heard it
was $400 billion—trade imbalance, I
can’t blame China for that. I blame our
leaders since President Nixon.
For the last 40 or 50 years, somebody
has dropped the ball or taken their eye
off the ball. If you allow a trade imbal-
ance of $400-billion-plus, and then add
to that the theft of intellectual prop-
erties that we have heard up to $600 bil-
lion—I am sure you saw the DHS as
they brought in products made by our
manufacturers that went to China that
are now coming from China, and it
looks identical, yet, it is made by
China. So it is robbing that profit and
the jobs from American manufacturers
that should go here, and it has to stop.
I commend the Trump administra-
tion for standing up to that. I think
the gentleman brought this out.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker,
the reckoning is here.
Mr. YOHO. The reckoning is here.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. It has been hid-
den, but the consequences have been
real. It is now on the surface. The day
of reckoning is here.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, it is, and I
hope the gentleman participates in
these. Because that day of reckoning is
here, and if we don’t do it today, it is
only going to get worse. So this is
something that we have to come to-
gether as Americans. It is not Presi-
dent Trump out there. It is not some of
the businesses that are bold enough to
stand with him.
We, the American people, need to
stand behind him, and I think the gen-
tleman brought this up that this is not
a fight with the Chinese people. It is
the system that is running unfair trade
balances.
Mr. Speaker, what I would like to
bring up, going back to my notes here
is, we are in the era of Xi Jinping. I
don’t think our disagreement is with
the Chinese people, but it is with the
policies of Xi Jinping and the Chinese
or the Communist Party of China.
The 2017 Congress of the Communist
Party of China was held in October of
2017. During that time, Xi Jinping kind
of came out and was very bold in his
statements. He said: The era of China
has arrived. No longer will they be
made to swallow their interests around
the world. It is time for China to take
the world’s stage.
The gentleman brought this up.
There is plenty of room on the world’s
stage if you want to be fair and bal-
anced, and you want to play like every-
body else, but you have to honor inter-
national law. You have to honor the
rule of law, honoring contracts, hon-
oring the beliefs that we have to be a
respected trading partner.
We penned an editorial that talked
about Xi Jinping is leading—along with
the Communist Party which is 90 mil-
lion members—is leading China into a
second century of shame, and it is be-
cause they are losing face. They are
losing honor that the Chinese culture,
over millennials, built up. They were
respected. But they are getting ready
to enter into the second century of
shame, and I would like for Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY to continue.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker, to
elaborate on a concept that I talked
about earlier is this idea of human dig-
nity, and where does culture, ideals,
learning, and the pursuit of truth come
from?
It comes from this sacred space, if
you will. And when that is subsumed to
the larger interest of the state where
you are compelled to act only within
certain parameters, where you have to
submit yourself to this bigger idea of
economic nationalism, it can’t define
itself because it doesn’t know where it
is going, so it just churns and churns.
It has to be more and more and more
with environmental effects, effects on
culture, and effects on relationships
around the world.
One final point before I leave you.
The head of the United States Agency
for International Development, Mark
Green, a former Member of Congress,
former Ambassador to Tanzania, had
this to say before us recently: China,
they are predatory lenders.
Mr. YOHO. Yeah.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. They are act-
ing, again, with their superpower sta-
tus around the world, basically con-
victing leaders in tougher places
around the world that are desperate for
the right types of build-out and infra-
structure to attack structural poverty
and to help stop the types of injustice
that are there when people simply do
not have a system that allows them to
reach their full potentiality.
They are being forced to mortgage off
various assets they have, rather than
being in a robust partnership and
alignment with a superpower who is in-
terested in perhaps the right type of
development, sustainability and con-
servation, and to build out a just gov-
ernance.
So countries are having to mortgage
off ports and other pieces of infrastruc-
ture in order to get Chinese money.
Again, there is a resource movement
out of these places into the Chinese
hands in order to feed, just continue to
feed this economic nationalism which
has no broader purpose.
Mr. YOHO. Right.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. And that is the
issue. So China, maybe they will see
this. Our charge here is to try to do
some self-reflection ourselves about
the nature of our system and what we
have done.
But also, with the hand of friendship
extended, say to the Chinese: A trans-
actional relationship is not an archi-
tecture for the 21st century, for the
thriving of civilization as the world
gets smaller and smaller and more and
more integrated.
This predatory lending in the world’s
toughest places is a disastrous policy
and completely inconsistent and con-
tradictory to what a leader in the
world, because of superpower status
and economic power status, ought to be
pursuing.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for his time.
The gentleman brought up a good
point about China. If you read about
the Chinese Communist Party, the role
of the individual is to serve the party.
There is no higher entity in China
other than Xi Jinping. Whereas in our
government, we are so blessed in this
country because we have a government
that empowers their people. China sup-
presses their people, and that is why I
want to talk about this.
This comes from a 2012 House Intel-
ligence Committee report where they
deemed Huawei and ZTE to be a U.S.
national security threat. I have got the
results of that right here. So we want
to talk about that.
Huawei and ZTE, from 2012 until
today, they have been a national secu-
rity threat, but they have been able to
do business in this country. This is
something we need to bring to an end.
Other speakers brought up how uni-
versities were falling prey to China. We
had our own university in Florida that
Huawei came in and offered to set up a
cybersecurity program, and they were
going to fund it. And we said: No way.
And so we got them to stop that.
If you just go to the headlines and
you can hear how China is ramping up
in intellectual property theft. They are
paid to do this. This is something they
want to go after, and they are doing it.
They rail against the United States
on GMOs, yet, they go to Iowa and
steal corn seeds so that they can grow
GMO and be in competition with us.
The trade war with China and the
problems with intellectual property
rights, this is something that goes on
every day. And as we buy cheap prod-
ucts made in China, this is benefiting
them, not us. You can see the headlines
here.
What I want to do is move on to Hong
Kong with Xi Jinping. Back when
Great Britain gave Hong Kong back to
China in 1997, under the rulers of China
at that time, there was a 50-year agree-
ment that Hong Kong would be an au-
tonomous, self-ruled nation. Twenty-
two years into the program, China has
put their heavy foot down. China has
disrupted the autonomous rule of Hong
Kong to the point where Xi Jinping had
the nerve to say this on the world
stage; as far as he was concerned, that
agreement was null and void.
I want to bring that up because if we
talk about if that agreement is null
and void with Hong Kong, if we go back
to the agreement of Taiwan under
Nixon and Kissinger when they said
that Taiwan is recognized as one coun-
try, two systems, and autonomous rule,
if China and Xi Jinping can discount
that agreement with Great Britain,
does that give us the right to discount
one country, two systems?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.090 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3781
May 14, 2019
Is it time to recognize Taiwan as an
independent country, a thriving democ-
racy, our eleventh largest trading part-
ner?
I want to bring up the South China
Sea.
Mr. Speaker, how much time do I
have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Florida has 9 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I will try to
tighten this up.
Mr. Speaker, China, in the South
China Sea, has started claiming prop-
erty that is not theirs. It goes off to
nine historical lines that come from
antiquity, from 300 or 400 years ago.
And they said: Well, we used to sail
here, so this is our property.
So they started building these is-
lands, and they went off the coast of
the Philippines, and the Philippines
took them to the Court of Arbitration
in The Hague, and China lost the law-
suit. China ignored the ruling of The
Hague, an international norm that we
are all supposed to follow. They ig-
nored it, and here you have the Spratly
Islands that were little atolls sticking
shallowly out of the water at low tide.
China has gone in there, and it is
probably the biggest environmental in-
sult to this world, where they have
dredged up over 4,000 acres of land and
they have built these land masses. I
refuse to use the word ‘‘island’’ because
that gives credibility to China.
What they have done is built—ille-
gally, against the environment, against
the ruling of international law—land
masses in the East China Sea.
President Xi Jinping had the gump-
tion to come here to the United States
during President Obama’s era in 2015,
he went to the Rose Garden and
claimed: We will never militarize these
islands.
Yet, today, there are runways on
there that can accommodate military
planes. Our satellites show that there
are military barracks, offensive and de-
fensive weapons, and radar systems. I
think it is pretty well militarized.
They are doing that again and again
and again. There are four islands they
have done now.
Their goal is to go to the next chain
of islands which is closer to our main-
land. This is something the world has
to stand up to. If not, they are going to
keep continuing to march forward.
This is a photo of when they started,
and this is more of the dredging. We
don’t have the one that shows them
completed, but you can find it on the
internet.
Now we are at the China of today.
China has perfected 5G technology.
China today has over 800 million CCTV
cameras, closed-circuit television cam-
eras, and they have put a system in
place where they monitor their sys-
tems.
b 2030
Today in China there are over 24 mil-
lion citizens being monitored, and they
get issued by the Communist Party a
good citizen score. But, Mr. Speaker,
you don’t know what your score is. So
when you show up to travel, if your
score is not high enough, then you get
denied travel. If you go to borrow
money or use your banking system,
you are denied your banking system.
Your kids can’t go to the colleges you
want them to go to because you are de-
nied because you are a bad citizen.
They have extended this and offered
this to Russia; they have extended this
and offered it to Maduro in Venezuela;
and Iran wants this technology.
What better way for a despotic or au-
thoritarian or Communist regime to
control their citizens than the CC tech-
nology?
China uses technology to suppress
their citizens to fall in line so that
they serve the Communist Party. Our
government empowers our people to
reach their full potential.
I will close with this last thing, Mr.
Speaker. China has interned over 2 mil-
lion Muslim Chinese ethnic people, the
Uyghurs, in what they call reeducation
camps.
I want to show you this poster here,
Mr. Speaker. This is a reeducation
camp. That means they just go there
because they want to learn new skills.
This is what China is doing with the
Uyghurs, the Muslim population. Not
only that but they have armed
crematoriums that are in place in
these camps.
I’ve got to ask you, Mr. Speaker,
when you have got a place that looks
look a prison, I don’t believe it is there
for education. We went through World
War II and the Holocaust. This Nation
and all other nations said: ‘‘Never
again.’’
Mr. Speaker, it is happening right
now in China. We need to pivot away
from China buying stuff, and we need
to encourage our manufacturers to go
anywhere but China.
I don’t want a conflict with China.
Nobody does. But if we stand up collec-
tively together and we encourage man-
ufacturers to go, then we can get Chi-
na’s attention via their pocketbook
and we can change the course of the
history of this world.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate your pa-
tience, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, the
threat to religious liberty and religious tolera-
tion in the People’s Republic of China is of
grave concern. Over the past several years
there has been an ever increasing intolerance
of religious minorities.
Article 36 of the Constitution of the People’s
Republic of China guarantees the freedom of
religious belief. Yet the rights and safety of re-
ligious minorities in the country are very much
in question.
China is the home to nearly 90 million
Christians, and the country is anticipated to be
home to the most Christians in the world by
2030. Yet, over the last several years, the per-
centage of persecution cases have risen year
over year. Furthermore, the government has
increasingly required churches to be state ap-
proved, churches have been razed and wor-
shippers subjected to detainment, physical in-
terrogation, and thought reform conditioning.
In the west, in Xinjiang Province, the United
Nations has reported the government to be
holding roughly one million Uygurs without
charge. Those who have escaped have testi-
fied to being repeatedly told that God did not
exist and that they would only be fed after ac-
knowledging the greatness of communism.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage this Congress and
our President to take appropriate actions to
promote religious freedom of religious minori-
ties in the People’s Republic of China.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 5, EQUALITY ACT; PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 312, MASHPEE WAMPANOAG
TRIBE RESERVATION REAFFIR-
MATION ACT; AND PROVIDING
FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 987,
MARKETING AND OUTREACH
RESTORATION TO EMPOWER
HEALTH EDUCATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. SCANLON (during the Special
Order of Mr. YOHO), from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–61) on the
resolution (H. Res. 377) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 5) to pro-
hibit discrimination on the basis of
sex, gender identity, and sexual ori-
entation, and for other purposes; pro-
viding for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 312) to reaffirm the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and for
other purposes; and providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 987) to
amend the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act to provide for Fed-
eral exchange outreach and edu-
cational activities, which was referred
to the House Calendar and ordered to
be printed.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF THE
HONORABLE ELLEN TAUSCHER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. GARAMENDI) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, to-
night is a very special night for many
of us. Tonight, we honor the memory of
an extraordinary Representative, Ellen
Tauscher, who served the Contra Costa
area of California for almost two dec-
ades.
She died nearly 3 weeks ago. Tonight
is our first opportunity to come to the
floor and to pay tribute to her. I had
the pleasure of knowing her before she
became a Member of Congress and then
during her years in Congress and I also
had the unique opportunity to take her
seat when she retired to become the
Assistant Secretary of State.
So tonight, we pay tribute to this ex-
traordinary woman. We do this in rec-
ognition of the work that she did on
Wall Street, the work that she did here
in the House of Representatives, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.091 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3782 May 14, 2019
her unyielding desire to reduce nuclear
risks throughout the world.
To conduct the rest of tonight’s trib-
ute, I am turning to a woman who
served with Ellen for all of the years
that she was in Congress, a woman who
is the leader of the Democratic Mem-
bers of California, ZOE LOFGREN.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF THE
HONORABLE ELLEN TAUSCHER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LOFGREN) is recognized
for the remainder of the hour as the
designee of the majority leader.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
really on behalf of the entire California
delegation to honor our friend and
former colleague, Ellen Tauscher, who
passed away much too soon last month
at the age of 67.
Ellen was a trailblazer in virtually
everything she did in her remarkable
life, and her passing is a great loss not
only to California, not only to our
country, but to the world.
I met Ellen when she ran for office,
but I got to know her here. I recall so
well Democratic Congresswomen—and
there weren’t as many of us at the
time—all telling their own personal
story and all of us being kind of sur-
prised that we came from modest be-
ginnings. Ellen was born in Newark,
New Jersey. Her father was a shop
steward at the UFCW, and he was at
the Shop Rite store in Union City. Her
mom, like my mom, was a secretary.
But, she went on, because this country
gave her an opportunity, she got a
great education, and, of course, then,
as will be said later tonight, became
one of the youngest and one of the first
women to become a member of the New
York Stock Exchange.
She excelled in the issue of childcare.
She wrote a book and did some tech-
nology about that before she ran for of-
fice.
But I ran into her in 1996 when I had
been in Congress just a short time, and
she decided and actually was recruited
to run against a very conservative gen-
tleman who had been in the House, but
was really more conservative than his
district, especially when it came to
being pro-choice and the need to do
something sensible about gun violence.
I remember Ellen had a parade when
she ran for office, and people were
cheering her on. I thought: This woman
is going to win this seat.
Sure enough, she did.
She was so popular and so different
than the predecessor. People were talk-
ing about Tauscherism in the State of
California, using her last name as an
-ism. Really what it was was a very
sensible, business-oriented approach,
heavily interested in technology but
wedded with good values that reflected
her constituency: pro-choice, pro-edu-
cation, pro-equal rights, pro-LGBTQ
rights, and that was what she brought
to this body.
We remember her for the mark that
she left on this institution. She contin-
ued to lead on the Armed Services
Committee where she chaired the Stra-
tegic Forces Subcommittee and was a
leading figure on arms control policy.
She also worked on the Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure Committee
in a remarkable way. Not only was she
a national leader on environmentally
sustainable transportation policy, as a
founding member of the Intelligent
Transportation Systems Caucus, she
also delivered for her district. It really
mattered to her that she got a wid-
ening of the Sunol Grade on 680 which
made a difference, not only for her dis-
trict but for mine, as people were try-
ing to commute between the two re-
gions.
She got a fourth bore for the
Caldecott Tunnel so that commuters
could get around. She played a leader-
ship role securing funding for the
BART extension to the San Francisco
Airport and her work to get the Army
Corps to fund the dredging of the Port
of Oakland.
I am particularly excited by the work
we did together for the Lawrence
Livermore National Lab as well as the
Sandia Lab. She was so interested in
the National Ignition Facility. She
saved the funding, she was there at the
groundbreaking, she was there when we
opened the facility, and she really be-
lieved that the science that was going
on there would change the world, and I
still believe that it will.
But here in the House I think all of
us will remember her as the presiding
officer. Ellen was completely
unflappable. I can remember when we
had the worst, most contentious issues,
we knew it would be okay because
Ellen would take the dais and she
would preside. She would help people
calm down, focus on the disagreements,
and adhere to the rules of the House.
Nothing could shake her ability to pre-
side in a wise, thoughtful, and very
calm way over the House of Represent-
atives.
We had such fun with her. Women
Members went out to dinner with her
and shared stories. She never put up
with nonsense. She was very matter of
fact. She had a wicked sense of humor,
but she was someone with tremendous
integrity. Of course, as we know, that
integrity, expertise, and vision was rec-
ognized when President Obama nomi-
nated her to be Under Secretary of
State for Arms Control and Inter-
national Security. She was confirmed
and left the House.
She did important things in that of-
fice. She helped negotiate the New
START Treaty with the Russian Fed-
eration—the first agreement signed
with Russia in nearly 20 years—and it
was ratified by the U.S. Senate.
After leaving the Department of
State, she continued to make contribu-
tions. She served on the Board of Re-
gents for the University of California.
She continued to make sure that the
science at Lawrence Livermore Na-
tional Lab was protected and also at
Los Alamos. She continued in her ef-
forts to make sure that the cutting
edge was always protected as a member
of the Board of Advisors of SpaceX,
eHealth, and other important tech-
nology businesses.
These achievements really don’t do
justice to Ellen’s legacy. I know from
our many good times talking with her,
her funny irreverence and her smart in-
sight, the one thing that she loved
more than anything else on this Earth
was her wonderful daughter, Katherine,
who I hope is watching tonight. We
loved Ellen Tauscher, and she loved
Katherine.
Not every Member who planned to be
here this evening was able to. We will
make sure that all of the statements
are entered into the RECORD.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER), who is the
majority leader of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the dean of the California delegation
and a good friend of Ellen’s for yield-
ing.
Ellen was one of my closest friends in
the Congress of the United States. I
think Ellen and I voted the same about
almost every time the lights were
turned on and the votes were re-
quested.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman
LOFGREN and the California delegation
for organizing this tribute.
I rise to join in remembering a dear,
dear friend, an outstanding colleague,
and a respected public servant.
In recent days, I have been asked to
describe Ellen. Words that come to
mind are extraordinarily accomplished,
stateswoman, a diplomat, an expert in
our Nation’s defense as a member of
the Armed Services Committee and as
a member of the State Department,
and a politician in the best sense of the
word. Her skill in rallying disparate in-
terests behind a common objective was,
I think, almost unmatched.
Ms. LOFGREN referred to her as pre-
siding. She was a Democrat presiding
in a House in which all respected her,
which is why she was so effective. She
would look to the Republican side of
the aisle, and she would tap the gavel.
They would know she knew what was
right, and they did not want to cross
her.
Her determination not to be swayed
from the principles to which she al-
ways remained true was a hallmark of
Ellen Tauscher. Many in the House and
in our country will remember Ellen for
having been one of the first women, as
has been pointed out, on the New York
Stock Exchange at the age of 25.
I can imagine there were a lot of old
bulls on Wall Street who said, what is
that young woman, that young, blonde,
beautiful woman doing sitting on the
Stock Exchange, a seat on the Stock
Exchange?
And the answer to that question:
Damn well—like everything she did.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.094 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3783
May 14, 2019
Many will remember her for the 13
years she represented California in the
Congress and for her very successful
tenure as a top arms control negotiator
with the Russians. But I will remember
her as one of my dearest and closest
friends in the House.
I will never forget Ellen’s kindness,
sincerity, advice, counsel, and loyalty.
I will never forget her honesty and her
intellect. Neither will I forget Ellen’s
determination to see each of us here,
regardless of our party or background,
as a true colleague in service.
That is how she was able to be so suc-
cessful as a legislator.
b 2045
As chairwoman of the Strategic
Forces Subcommittee of the Armed
Services Committee, she was respected
not only as a presiding officer but also
for the depth of her knowledge as it re-
lated to our national security and for
the fact that she was always genuine.
You knew that Ellen Tauscher was
not taking a position for show. She was
taking it because she believed deeply
that it was in the best interest of our
country.
Because of her work on the Armed
Services Strategic Forces Sub-
committee and extraordinary efforts as
a diplomat, Americans are safer today.
Ellen worked tirelessly during the
Obama administration to negotiate the
New START Treaty, which reduced
American and Russian nuclear arsenals
to their lowest levels in more than half
a century. In that pursuit, she drew on
the same indomitable nature, attention
to detail, and determination to achieve
results that made her so successful in
business, in the Congress, and as a
campaigner for Senator FEINSTEIN.
She chaired Senator FEINSTEIN’s first
two campaigns for the United States
Senate, and DIANNE FEINSTEIN was one
of her closest friends.
I join the Senator from California in
expressing my deep sadness at the loss
of my dear friend, and I join with my
colleagues from both sides of the aisle
who have said, very rightly, that, with
Ellen’s passing, this institution has
lost one of its most outstanding former
Members.
My thoughts are with Katherine,
who, as ZOE LOFGREN said, she adored.
We may have been her good friends, but
we were a far-back second to Kath-
erine, a beautiful young woman in her
own right, a wonderful athlete, and
like her mother, bright, ambitious,
fair, and loving.
We send our sympathy to her entire
family. May Ellen’s memory be an in-
spiration to all of us in this House to
serve in the way she served: with
honor, with humility—humility but
also great self-confidence—and with de-
termination to see every vote as an op-
portunity to do right by those who sent
us here.
That is what Ellen did every day dur-
ing her tenure.
I thank Ellen for her service. I thank
her for her friendship. I thank her for
making America better. We miss her.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, all of us
knew Ellen in a different way, but
those who served with her on the
Armed Services Committee knew her
work there, so I would like to recognize
the gentlewoman from California,
SUSAN DAVIS, who served not only in
the delegation with Ellen but also on
the Armed Services Committee.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from California (Mrs. DAVIS).
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I am honored to be here this
evening and to have a chance to talk
about my friend and my colleague,
Ellen Tauscher.
Ellen, as we are all hearing, was real-
ly a trailblazer. She was a trailblazer,
a businesswoman. She was a single
mom, a philanthropist, a diplomat, a
mentor, and for so many of us, a dear
friend.
If you were a woman in California
politics in the last three decades, Ellen
probably had a significant impact on
your life. She showed us all that kind-
ness and charity can go with strength
and wit.
We all have personal experience with
Ellen. I actually met Ellen about 1996,
I think it was. We happened to be at a
National Women’s Political Caucus
meeting.
What was funny about that is that we
kind of caught one another’s eye. We
have heard people talk about no-non-
sense Ellen. Something was going on.
We were a little impatient, and we kind
of both looked at each other like: Is
this really what we came for?
That was the start of a friendship.
When she learned later that I was
considering running for Congress, she
got in touch with me. She said: If you
are coming to D.C., then I have a place
for you to stay. Please stay at my
house, and let’s have a chance to talk,
sit down and really get to know one an-
other.
That was pretty cool because, as I
said, it had just been a small encounter
that we had had sometime before.
So we sat at her dinner table, and I
remember asking her about what she
was doing and what she was learning in
Congress. She told me about the Stra-
tegic Forces Subcommittee, and I was
really very impressed with that be-
cause the thought of working on arms
control just seemed like, first, a fan-
tasy and, then, just a really hard thing
to do.
She said that one of the reasons that
she was interested in doing that, aside
from the fact that she lived so close to
Lawrence Livermore National Labora-
tory and she had a real interest in hav-
ing them be a premier lab for much of
the testing in the future, was she felt
that she wanted to show that women
could do that job.
Of course, we knew that she was the
one who was capable to do that and
probably was the first woman to have
served on that committee.
I remember, too, at her table, just
talking about her daughter, Katherine,
and how proud she was of Katherine,
all her hopes and dreams for her, and
how tough it was being a mom and also
wanting to make her schedule work for
her daughter.
Then, of course, as a colleague on
HASC, we were both on the committee
when our country faced the great trag-
edy of 9/11, and just being able to re-
spond to so many of the issues around
that.
I always went to Ellen when we had
a chance to talk about what we either
had to vote on or what we were facing
on the committee. Sometimes I would
share with her: I am not sure what to
do in this instance.
She would look me straight in the
eye, as she would always—and you can
tell in her eyes here—with that kind of
wry smile. She would say: SUSAN, you
are going to do the right thing.
Honestly, it gave me the confidence
to do the right thing, and I knew that
Ellen was going to do that as well.
A number of years into her term and
the great job that she did here pre-
siding in the House, at the request of
President Clinton, she became and was
able to be interviewed for and go before
the Senate as Under Secretary of State
for Arms Control and International Se-
curity, as people have mentioned.
In that role, she traveled extensively
and was really the face of our country
in those negotiations with the Rus-
sians. Quite honestly, from the discus-
sions that I had with Ellen, I think
they didn’t know what to make of her
because she was so direct and so
strong. She wouldn’t take anybody’s
nonsense in that role.
We were all so proud of her, knowing
what she was able to accomplish, and
people have referred to that as well.
I want to be mindful here of the role
that she played on nuclear weapons
policy, how she came at that, and how
she felt it was so important for a
woman to be in that position someday.
She didn’t know that she was going
to be the Under Secretary for Arms
Control and International Security. I
don’t think she even thought that was
a possibility at one time, but she want-
ed to be ready. She wanted to be pre-
pared. That is what she did so much of
her life.
Following a number of years facing
cancer, being a survivor and all that
she went through with the best atti-
tude in the world, even in recent
months, she was still speaking before
the Armed Services Committee on nu-
clear weapons policy.
Her work on nuclear security made
this world measurably safer and will
have a lasting impact on future genera-
tions.
We relied so much on her knowledge
and her counsel as we considered the
most sobering aspect of national secu-
rity: weapons with the power to de-
stroy life as we know it on this planet.
We looked to Ellen for that.
While her work was critically impor-
tant, always, for Ellen, her family
came first. So our thoughts today are
with her daughter, Katherine, everyone
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.096 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3784 May 14, 2019
who was close to her in her commu-
nity, and those she worked with
throughout this world. Our thoughts
are with all of them, and our blessings
go with that.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, all of
us, as I said, knew Ellen in different
ways. I was surprised that the gentle-
woman from Florida probably knew
Ellen Tauscher longer than anyone else
in this body, and I am so pleased to
recognize DONNA SHALALA.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Florida (Ms. SHALALA).
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the California delegation for giving me
this opportunity.
I met Ellen Tauscher in the 1980s
when I was the director of the Amer-
ican Stock Exchange and she was an
officer. She was brilliant, and she had a
heart of gold.
We worked together again in the
1990s when she was elected to Congress.
She hadn’t changed. She could still
focus, razor sharp, on any issue.
She was a classic citizen legislator.
She had had a previous extraordinary
career in finance and then committed
herself to public service. All of us who
knew and worked and played with her
loved her. Actually, we had a date this
month for dinner at her favorite
Georgetown restaurant.
She will be missed as a kind, warm,
and wonderful friend, as a classy col-
league. She will be remembered as a
patriot who loved her country and
served it well.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, talking
about how we each knew Ellen in dif-
ferent ways, she was very active in the
New Democrat Coalition. We have
someone who served with her as one of
her cohorts, as a New Democrat who, I
believe, chaired it with her at one
time. I am happy to recognize RON
KIND.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. KIND).
Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman from California, first of
all, for recognizing me tonight but also
for securing this Special Order to
honor one of our great friends and
great colleagues in this institution,
Ellen Tauscher. I also thank JOHN
GARAMENDI for helping to organize to-
night’s Special Order as well.
Ellen was a true patriot. She was a
great American, someone who loved
the congressional district that allowed
her to represent them, loved her home
State, and loved our country even
more.
I got to know Ellen as a member of
the incoming class of 1997. We were
both present at the creation of the New
Democrat Coalition. It didn’t exist
back then, until we first joined. Then,
with the help of Cal Dooley, another
California Representative; Tim Roe-
mer; Jim Moran; and ADAM SMITH, who
is now chairing the Armed Services
Committee and was also one of the
founding Members, we helped form the
New Democrat Coalition, where Ellen
really excelled in her leadership. It was
fun getting to work with her on such a
personal level.
The committees to which she was as-
signed were a perfect fit for her and for
the district and State she represented:
the Armed Services Committee, where
she developed such great expertise and
knowledge on national security issues,
but especially with the arms control
issue that she became world renowned
over; the Transportation and Infra-
structure Committee, with all of the
work that she did to help rebuild
America the way it should be, but espe-
cially the infrastructure projects that
were so crucial to her area of Cali-
fornia that she would fight doggedly
over on that committee; and then her
work on the Science Committee, which
really fit in well with her leadership
role with the New Democrat Coalition.
The New Dems were a group of Mem-
bers here in the Democratic Caucus
who were more moderate, more prag-
matic. To Ellen, being moderate and
pragmatic wasn’t an ideology; it was a
way of life, a way of being able to get
things done in an institution where it
is sometimes very difficult to get
things accomplished.
She was always looking to find those
bipartisan coalitions in order to get
things across the finish line, being re-
spectful and listening, especially to our
colleagues across the aisle, knowing
that there was common ground to be
had that we could work on together in
order to represent the interests that
she represented in California but all
our interests here in this country.
On the Science Committee, she was
devoted, as she was with the New Dem-
ocrat Coalition, to making sure that
our country remained the most innova-
tive, competitive, and creative nation
in the world, especially at a time of
great technological change.
She came in with me in the late 1990s
during the information revolution that
was taking place, the dot-com era,
with, of course, a tremendous impact
in California, as it had throughout the
rest of the country, being able to wrap
our arms around that, understanding
the vast implications that this was
going to have on American competi-
tiveness abroad. How to stay on that
cutting edge of new discovery in the
global information technology econ-
omy while also making sure that none
of our citizens were left behind with
that rapid change and our role in that
global economy, that was something
Ellen was deeply devoted to, something
that she took up as chair of the New
Democrat Coalition over two terms,
making sure that we were spending
time to understand the policy implica-
tions of the high-tech revolution, arti-
ficial intelligence, robotics, and the
role our country can play in advancing
that.
b 2100
Again, how can we best empower all
Americans so that they can be full par-
ticipants of that global economy and
rapid change? We haven’t always done
a good job at that, quite frankly.
I think that is one of the reasons
there is so much consternation and
even anger back home, because many
people feel that they haven’t been em-
powered with the skills they need to be
full participants and to be successful in
this highly charged economy.
That was something that Ellen rec-
ognized and was devoted to trying to
find answers to when she showed up at
work every day.
It was a great honor to be able to
serve with her in that coalition and to
later assume the chair position from
her in order to continue to build it.
I know Ellen was particularly proud
of last fall’s election, the fact that 41 of
the new Democratic Members who
joined Congress decided to join the New
Democrat Coalition, putting our num-
ber up to 101, which was unfathomable
at the time we were starting the coali-
tion in the late 1990s, let alone just in
recent years.
It shows that the New Dems have a
very important role to play, as Ellen
recognized, in helping to shape the
agenda and the policies that will make
sense and work for the people back
home.
I appreciated being able to work
closely with her in that capacity. I
learned a lot from the skills that she
brought, with her varied interests and
backgrounds that she had before Con-
gress. As was mentioned earlier, she
was one of the first women to hold a
seat on the New York Stock Exchange,
a very accomplished business person
herself.
I think that is, in a lot of ways,
where she derived her political prag-
matism from, being able to get things
done, and the role that she played in
the respective committees, in the coa-
lition, and in the friendships and part-
nerships that she was able to form so
successfully here in Congress.
She wasn’t one who took no for an
answer. She always felt that there was
a path to success in whatever endeavor
she performed. That is why it made
perfect sense that, in the first Obama
term, he, along with Secretary Clinton,
appointed her for Under Secretary for
Arms Control and International Secu-
rity. It was perfect for her personal
background and portfolio, and she be-
came the negotiating face of America
when she was out negotiating the arms
control treaties.
Everyone knew, with great con-
fidence, that when Ellen entered that
negotiating room, there would be no
one more prepared, no one who had
done their homework more than she.
It even went beyond the intricacies
and the complexities of arms control
and nuclear reduction. It was also get-
ting to understand and appreciate
where the negotiators across the table
were coming from, the political con-
stituencies that they had to answer to
back home.
With her own political background, I
think she brought that bigger perspec-
tive to these negotiations. Because of
that, the success that she was able to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.098 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3785
May 14, 2019
achieve on behalf of our country was
something that she was able to achieve
with her negotiating counterparts from
across the table. That is a skill that we
need to cherish and recognize more,
quite frankly, in our various agencies
throughout government.
When she stepped down from that po-
sition, she immediately was sworn in
as Special Envoy for Strategic Sta-
bility and Missile Defense at the State
Department. It was just the next
iteration of that skill set that she
brought in the course of these negotia-
tions.
She represented us so very, very well.
We were all so proud of her, those of us
who had gotten to know her through-
out the years, seeing what she was able
to accomplish in her post-Congress ca-
reer, still finding a way to serve her
Nation in a different capacity.
She will be deeply missed. She was
loved by those who knew her in this in-
stitution.
Of course, she had a daughter, Kath-
erine, whom she adored above anyone
else. As much fun as it was serving
with Ellen when we came in, in 1997,
and throughout the years, it was per-
haps as much fun watching Katherine
grow up in our midst, seeing her be-
come such the accomplished and beau-
tiful young woman that she is today.
Ellen was so proud of that.
On behalf of the Class of 1997, on be-
half of the New Democrat Coalition, we
thank Katherine and the entire Tau-
scher family for sharing Ellen with us
through these years of her public serv-
ice, first in Congress and then during
the Obama administration.
She was a great friend, great col-
league, great Representative for her
district in California. More impor-
tantly, she was a great American and a
great patriot who believed in the fu-
ture of our country.
She will be sorely missed but never
forgotten, the accomplishments that
she was able to achieve throughout her
distinguished career here and through-
out her entire life.
May God bless her and take her into
His care.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, much
has been said about the New Dems, and
I would like to recognize the current
New Dem chair. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Washington (Mr. KILMER).
Mr. KILMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from California for orga-
nizing today’s Special Order to cele-
brate the life of Ellen Tauscher.
I didn’t serve with Ellen. I had the
opportunity to meet her and enjoyed
that, and I now have the distinct honor
of serving in a role that she held, not
just previously but exceptionally, as
chair of the New Democrat Coalition.
As my friend from Wisconsin said,
the New Dems is made up of forward-
thinking, pro-growth, pro-innovative,
and fiscally responsible Democrats.
This Congress, we have 101 members,
making us now the largest ideological
caucus in the House. It is the largest
the coalition has ever been.
It is safe to say, and it is certainly
not hyperbole to say, that this coali-
tion would not be what it is if it wasn’t
for Ellen Tauscher. The coalition came
into existence with the election of
Ellen Tauscher and several other cur-
rent and former colleagues back in
1996.
Shortly after she took office, Peter
Beinart wrote a profile piece about
Ellen and the New Democrats in Time
magazine. In it, Beinart describes the
early days of a growing New Democrat
Coalition that represented predomi-
nantly suburban districts across the
country. He declared the Democratic
center was moving toward what he
called Tauscherism, a phrase that
stuck around to describe the socially
progressive, fiscally moderate, pro-
business focus that were many of the
policies New Democrats advocated not
just then but now as well.
Ellen quickly gained respect, both in
the coalition and within the broader
Caucus. She was elected to the serve as
the New Dem chair in 2005 and served
in that position until 2009 when she left
Congress to serve as Under Secretary
for Arms Control and International Se-
curity Affairs at the State Depart-
ment.
As chair, Ellen made a consequential
impact on the direction of the New
Democrat Coalition. Under her
chairwomanship, the coalition fought
for a forward-looking innovation agen-
da, strong national defense, and more
effective government.
Ellen also rose in leadership posi-
tions on the Armed Services Com-
mittee, chairing the Strategic Forces
Subcommittee. She worked closely
with our leadership when Democrats
took the majority in 2007, to help shep-
herd landmark legislation through the
Congress.
Those who knew her well, and you
have heard from many of them tonight,
remember her tenacity, her creativity,
and her patriotism. Since her passing,
we have heard from former colleagues
and friends about the extraordinary
impact that Ellen made on their lives
and on them.
They say the measure of a person’s
life is the impact they have on others.
From this measurement alone, it is
very clear that Ellen lived a life of pur-
pose. We are so thankful for the time
that she spent here, for the time she
spent blazing a trail for the New Demo-
crat Coalition.
We are absolutely keeping Ellen’s
daughter, Katherine, and the entire
Tauscher family in our thoughts and
prayers this month as we celebrate her
extraordinary life and her extraor-
dinary legacy.
Again, I thank our colleague from
California for organizing this Special
Order in honor of Ellen’s life.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I think
so many of us in the House could think
of the different things we did with
Ellen. As I was listening, I was remem-
bering her capacity to reach agree-
ment. She was a legislator, and wheth-
er it was reaching across the aisle or
disagreements even within the Demo-
cratic Party, she was always trying to
come up with a solution that would
make the country better.
I remember a disagreement we had.
We were good friends, but we had a dis-
agreement on a legislative issue. There
was a disagreement in the Democratic
Party, and we had a big meeting. Rath-
er than let people fight, we stood in
front of the group and we actually
drafted the compromise that would
move us forward in the course of about
20 minutes. It was an extraordinary ex-
perience for both of us and especially
for the new Members who had never
seen legislators actually legislating
themselves.
I know that there are people
throughout the House who have such
memories, and I hope that they will be
able to put them into the RECORD,
keeping Katherine and the entire Tau-
scher family in their prayers.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on the subject
of this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (at the re-
quest of Mr. MCCARTHY) for today and
May 15 on account of district business.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 10 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, May 15, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 299, Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019, for printing in
the CONRESSIONAL RECORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K14MY7.100 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3786 May 14, 2019
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 299
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ............................................................................................................................................................. 0 ¥10 ¥17 38 63 59 62 63 65 68 ¥469 135 ¥75
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 987, the Strengthening Health Care and Lowering Prescription Drugs
Costs Act (Rules Committee Print 116–14), for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 987 (RULES COMMITTEE PRINT 116–14)
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Effects ................................................................................................................................................. 0 ¥79 ¥177 ¥167 ¥38 59 83 195 269 297 454 ¥403 895
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1060, the BUILD Act, would have no significant effect on
direct spending or revenues, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1313, the Transit Security Grant Program Flexibility Act,
would have no significant effect on direct spending or revenues, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such bill are esti-
mated as zero.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1003. A letter from the Deputy Under Sec-
retary, Comptroller, Department of Defense,
transmitting a report of violations of the
Antideficiency Act: Department of the Navy
(Naval Supply Systems Command N 17-01),
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1351; Public Law 97-258;
(96 Stat. 926); to the Committee on Appro-
priations.
1004. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
issuing a travel restriction on senior Depart-
ment of Defense officials’ travel to Afghani-
stan from May 15, 2019 through September 30,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
1005. A letter from the Management Ana-
lyst, Department of the Army, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Regulations Affecting Military
Reservations [Docket ID: USA-2018-HQ-0015]
(RIN: 0702-AA95) received May 9, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
1006. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Medicaid Program; Reassign-
ment of Medicaid Provider Claims [CMS-
2413-F] (RIN: 0938-AT61) received May 9, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1007. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Office of Electricity, Department of Energy,
transmitting a report titled ‘‘Review of Re-
cent Cost-Benefit Studies Related to Net Me-
tering and Distributed Solar’’; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1008. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Amendments to Federal Im-
plementation Plan for Managing Air Emis-
sions from True Minor Sources in Indian
Country in the Oil and Natural Gas Produc-
tion and Natural Gas Processing Segments of
the Oil and Natural Gas Sector [EPA-HQ-
OAR-2014-0606; FRL-9993-43-OAR] (RIN: 2060-
AT96) received May 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1009. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Designation of Areas for Air
Quality Planning Purposes; Ohio; Redesigna-
tion of the Lake County Sulfur Dioxide Non-
attainment Area [EPA-R05-OAR-2018-0224;
FRL-9993-54-Region 5] received May 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1010. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
regulatory guide — Criteria for Accident
Monitoring Instrumentation for Nuclear
Power Plants [Regulatory Guide 1.97, Revi-
sion 5] received May 9, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1011. A letter from the Director, Environ-
mental Protection Agency, transmitting the
Agency’s FY 2018 No FEAR Act Report, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law 107-
174, 203(a) (as amended by Public Law 109-435,
Sec. 604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
1012. A letter from the Chief, Regulatory
Coordination Division, Office of Policy and
Strategy, USCIS, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary rule — Exercise of Time-Limited
Authority to Increase the Fiscal Year 2019
Numerical Limitation for the H-2B Tem-
porary Nonagricultural Worker Program
[CIS No.: 2646-19; DHS Docket No.: USCIS-
2019-0008] (RIN: 1615-AC38) received May 9,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
1013. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Transportation, transmitting the
Annual Report on Disability-Related Air
Travel Complaints received During Calendar
Year 2017, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. Sec.
41705(c)(3); Public Law 103-272, Sec. 41705(c)(3)
(as added by Public Law 106-181, Sec.
707(a)(3)); (114 Stat. 158); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1014. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Ohio
River, Louisville, KY [Docket Number:
USCG-2018-0168] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
May 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
1015. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Lower
Mississippi River, Mile Markers 99.3 to 100.3
Above Head of Passes, New Orleans, LA
[Docket Number: USCG-2018-1108] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received May 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
1016. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Safe Harbor for Trades of Player Con-
tracts and Draft Picks (Revenue Procedure
2019-18) received May 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
1017. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Rulings and determinations letter
(Revenue Procedure 2019-22) received May 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
1018. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Request for Comments on Necessary
Clarifications to Normalization Require-
ments for Excess Tax Reserves Resulting
from the Corporate Tax Rate Decrease [No-
tice 2019-33] received May 10, 2019, pursuant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.027 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3787
May 14, 2019
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
1019. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Cash distributions in redemption of
stock of former S corporations during the
post-termination transition period (Revenue
Ruling 2019-13) received May 10, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
1020. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — 2018 Section 45K(d)(2)(C) Reference
Price [Notice 2019-28] received May 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
1021. A letter from the Director, Publica-
tions and Regulations Branch, Internal Rev-
enue Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB
only rule — Request for Comments on Credit
for Carbon Oxide Sequestration [Notice 2019-
32] received May 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
1022. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Limited Expansion of the Determina-
tion Letter Program for Individually De-
signed Plans (Revenue Procedure 2019-20) re-
ceived May 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
1023. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
Major final rule — Medicare and Medicaid
Programs; Regulation To Require Drug Pric-
ing Transparency [CMS-4187-F] (RIN: 0938-
AT87) received May 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce and Ways and
Means.
1024. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel, Office of the General Counsel, Na-
tional Science Foundation, transmitting the
Foundation’s direct final rule — Conserva-
tion of Antarctic Animals and Plants (RIN:
3145-AA59) received May 9, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Science, Space, and Technology and Nat-
ural Resources.
1025. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Medicare Program; Changes to
the Medicare Claims and Medicare Prescrip-
tion Drug Coverage Determination Appeals
Procedures [CMS-4174-F] (RIN: 0938-AT27) re-
ceived May 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees on
Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mrs. LOWEY: Committee on Appropria-
tions. Suballocation of Budget Allocations
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Rept. 116–59). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 389. A bill to authorize the
Secretary of the Treasury to pay rewards
under an asset recovery rewards program to
help identify and recover stolen assets
linked to foreign government corruption and
the proceeds of such corruption hidden be-
hind complex financial structures in the
United States and abroad; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–60). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Ms. SCANLON: Committee on Rules. House
Resolution 377. Resolution providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 5) to prohibit dis-
crimination on the basis of sex, gender iden-
tity, and sexual orientation, and for other
purposes; providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 312) to reaffirm the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and for other
purposes; and providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 987) to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to provide
for Federal Exchange outreach and edu-
cational activities (Rept. 116–61). Referred to
the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. CHE-
NEY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. SHERMAN,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. KING of New York, Ms.
MATSUI, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. THOMPSON
of California, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Ms. WILD, Mr. HIMES, Mrs. DINGELL,
Ms. LEE of California, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Ms. MOORE, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mr. SABLAN,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
HUNTER, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. ADER-
HOLT, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. COLLINS of New York,
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. DAVID
P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. KEVIN HERN
of Oklahoma, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. BOST, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Mr. HECK, Mr. MARSHALL, Mrs.
AXNE, Mr. MAST, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 2689. A bill to amend title 39, United
States Code, to extend the authority of the
United States Postal Service to issue a
semipostal to raise funds for breast cancer
research; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce, and Armed Serv-
ices, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER:
H.R. 2690. A bill to amend the Trade Act of
1974 to provide adjustment assistance to
farmers adversely affected by reduced ex-
ports resulting from tariffs imposed as retal-
iation for United States tariff increases, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 2691. A bill to authorize the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development to prescribe the man-
ner in which programs of the agency are
identified overseas, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Mr.
MCKINLEY):
H.R. 2692. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to provide for the inclusion of
broadband conduit installation in certain
highway construction projects, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for
himself, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
BYRNE, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. KING
of New York, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, and Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee):
H.R. 2693. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve access to,
and utilization of, bone mass measurement
benefits under part B of the Medicare pro-
gram by establishing a minimum payment
amount under such part for bone mass meas-
urement; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr.
KATKO, Mrs. MCBATH, Ms. HERRERA
BEUTLER, and Mr. SCOTT of Virginia):
H.R. 2694. A bill to eliminate discrimina-
tion and promote women’s health and eco-
nomic security by ensuring reasonable work-
place accommodations for workers whose
ability to perform the functions of a job are
limited by pregnancy, childbirth, or a re-
lated medical condition; to the Committee
on Education and Labor, and in addition to
the Committees on House Administration,
Oversight and Reform, and the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCCARTHY (for himself and
Mr. NUNES):
H.R. 2695. A bill to rename the Success
Dam in Tulare County, California, as the
Richard L. Schafer Dam; to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 2696. A bill to provide for the estab-
lishment of a pilot program to provide
grants to community mental health centers
for the placement of social workers with law
enforcement agencies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 2697. A bill to increase Federal Pell
Grants for the children of fallen public safe-
ty officers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor, and in
addition to the Committee on the Budget,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma
(for herself and Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio):
H.R. 2698. A bill to provide grants to State,
local, territorial, and tribal law enforcement
agencies to obtain behavioral health crisis
response training for law enforcement offi-
cers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself, Mr.
SHIMKUS, Mr. PETERS, Mr. DUNCAN,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mrs. LESKO, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. UPTON, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MY7.000 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3788 May 14, 2019
KEATING, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. WILSON
of South Carolina, Mr. COURTNEY,
and Mr. BALDERSON):
H.R. 2699. A bill to amend the Nuclear
Waste Policy Act of 1982, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committees on
Natural Resources, Armed Services, the
Budget, and Rules, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mr.
WALDEN, Mr. UPTON, Mr. MCKINLEY,
Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr. BUCSHON,
Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. MULLIN, Mrs. ROD-
GERS of Washington, Mr. LONG, Mr.
FLORES, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. SHIMKUS,
Mr. WALBERG, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
GUTHRIE, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. DUNCAN,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. LATTA, Mr. SCALISE,
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. COLLINS of
Georgia, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas, Mr. MITCHELL, and Mr. HURD
of Texas):
H.R. 2700. A bill to incentivize low-cost
drug options and generic competition, and to
provide extensions for community health
centers and the National Health Service
Corps, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. NADLER, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Miss RICE of New York,
Ms. SPEIER, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. RYAN, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. POCAN, and Mr. BLU-
MENAUER):
H.R. 2701. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Health and Human Services to award
grants to support the access of marginalized
youth to sexual health services, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. BACON,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. HAALAND, and
Mr. LANGEVIN):
H.R. 2702. A bill to amend parts B and E of
title IV of the Social Security Act to elimi-
nate barriers to providing child welfare serv-
ices for children and youth in need, to pro-
vide additional resources to implement pro-
grammatic changes necessary to meet the
requirements of the Family First Prevention
Services Act, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2703. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to clarify the admissi-
bility and deportability of aliens acting in
accordance with State and foreign marijuana
laws, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and
Mr. LAHOOD):
H.R. 2704. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow for transfers of the
renewable electricity production credit and
the energy credit; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and
Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 2705. A bill to establish a Water Infra-
structure Trust Fund, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, and in addition to the
Committees on Ways and Means, and Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself
and Mr. TAYLOR):
H.R. 2706. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to clarify
that charitable organization officials may
receive food donations from schools under
the food donation program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Ms. CHENEY (for herself, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Mr. LAMBORN, and Mr. TURNER):
H.R. 2707. A bill to limit funding for any
extension of the New START Treaty or any
successor agreement unless the agreement
includes the People’s Republic of China and
covers all strategic and non-strategic nu-
clear forces of the Russian Federation; to the
Committee on Armed Services, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms.
ADAMS, Ms. BASS, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
CROW, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Ms. DEAN, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KIL-
DEE, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. LYNCH, Mrs. MCBATH, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. MORELLE, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. NADLER, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
RUSH, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. SOTO, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. TRONE, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. WATERS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. WEXTON, and Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida):
H.R. 2708. A bill to prevent a person who
has been convicted of a misdemeanor hate
crime, or received an enhanced sentence for
a misdemeanor because of hate or bias in its
commission, from obtaining a firearm; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
PASCRELL):
H.R. 2709. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
clarify the definition of firefighter for the
purposes of the Public Safety Officers’ Death
Benefits Program; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH):
H.R. 2710. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve access to in-
novative new medical devices furnished to
individuals with end stage renal disease
under part B of the Medicare program by es-
tablishing a new device add-on payment ad-
justment under such part; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
HAALAND, and Mr. LUJÁN):
H.R. 2711. A bill to amend the Federal Oil
and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to require the Secretary
of the Interior to issue regulations to reduce
and prevent gas waste and to enhance gas
measuring and reporting, to codify a final
rule of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy regarding certain emission standards for
the oil and natural gas sector, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself and Mr.
MCGOVERN):
H.R. 2712. A bill to require that purchases
of agricultural commodities made by the
Secretary of Agriculture under the Food
Purchase and Distribution Program be from
domestically owned enterprises, and other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and
Mrs. HARTZLER):
H.R. 2713. A bill to prohibit the issuance of
F or J visas to researchers affiliated with the
Chinese People’s Liberation Army, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. GIBBS (for himself and Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio):
H.R. 2714. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for a credit
against tax, or refund of tax, for certain Fed-
eral insurance taxes for employees who are
members of religious faiths which oppose
participation in such insurance; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (for him-
self, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. ARMSTRONG,
Mr. NORMAN, Mr. MARSHALL, and Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma):
H.R. 2715. A bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to provide for State ap-
proval and implementation of specified waiv-
ers under the Medicaid program; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 2716. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to not apply changes under
Public Law 115-97 pertaining to the kiddie
tax to children receiving certain military
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MY7.100 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3789
May 14, 2019
survivor benefits; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 2717. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to convey to the San Felipe
Pueblo certain Federal land in Sandoval
County, New Mexico, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr.
HECK):
H.R. 2718. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include green infrastruc-
ture bonds in the definition of qualified pri-
vate activity bonds; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H.R. 2719. A bill to provide for the issuance
of a Stamp Out Elder Abuse Semipostal
Stamp; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committees
on the Judiciary, Energy and Commerce,
Ways and Means, and Education and Labor,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
BONAMICI, Ms. OMAR, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. MOORE, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. TONKO, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. ADAMS,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. ESCOBAR,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Ms. DELBENE, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. WELCH, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, and Mr.
POCAN):
H.R. 2720. A bill to provide for the overall
health and well-being of young people, in-
cluding the promotion of lifelong sexual
health and healthy relationships, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada (for herself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Ms. SPANBERGER, and Mr.
RIGGLEMAN):
H.R. 2721. A bill to establish a grant pro-
gram within the Department of Labor to
support the creation, implementation, and
expansion of registered apprenticeship pro-
grams in cybersecurity; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 2722. A bill to protect elections for
public office by providing financial support
and enhanced security for the infrastructure
used to carry out such elections, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on House
Administration, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. MEADOWS, Ms.
MOORE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. TAKANO, and Ms.
HILL of California):
H.R. 2723. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to establish a Multimodal
Freight Funding Formula Program and a Na-
tional Freight Infrastructure Competitive
Grant Program to improve the efficiency and
reliability of freight movement in the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself
and Mr. COLE):
H.R. 2724. A bill to clarify the require-
ments of authorized representatives under
the Family Educational Rights and Privacy
Act of 1974, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 2725. A bill to provide duty-free treat-
ment for the sale of used yachts, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2726. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to prohibit smoking on Amtrak
trains; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
BANKS, and Mrs. DAVIS of California):
H.R. 2727. A bill to establish a pilot pro-
gram to improve information sharing be-
tween the Department of Defense and des-
ignated relatives and friends of members of
the Armed Forces regarding the experiences
and challenges of military service, particu-
larly during and after overseas deployments,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for
himself, Mr. BYRNE, and Ms. STE-
VENS):
H.R. 2728. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to authorize borrowers to
separate joint consolidation loans; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and Ms. GAR-
CIA of Texas):
H.R. 2729. A bill to discontinue a Federal
program that authorizes State and local law
enforcement officers to investigate, appre-
hend, and detain aliens in accordance with a
written agreement with the Director of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and
to clarify that immigration enforcement is
solely a function of the Federal Government;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ (for herself and Mr.
REED):
H.R. 2730. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a nonrefundable
credit for working family caregivers; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for him-
self, Mr. WOODALL, Ms. LOFGREN, and
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey):
H.R. 2731. A bill to provide for automatic
acquisition of United States citizenship for
certain internationally adopted individuals,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. STANTON (for himself and Mr.
MCADAMS):
H.R. 2732. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to require warning labels for
prescription opioids, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. NEWHOUSE,
Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. COLE, Mr. ARM-
STRONG, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MULLIN,
Mr. YOUNG, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Ms. BASS, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Ms.
BONAMICI, Ms. MOORE, Mr. RUIZ, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. STANTON, Mr. COOK,
and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama):
H.R. 2733. A bill to direct the Attorney
General to review, revise, and develop law
enforcement and justice protocols appro-
priate to address missing and murdered Indi-
ans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Natural Resources, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 2734. A bill to require certain practi-
tioners authorized to prescribe controlled
substances to complete continuing edu-
cation; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr.
SENSENBRENNER):
H.R. 2735. A bill to amend section 1105 of
title 31, United States Code, to require that
the annual budget submissions of the Presi-
dents include the total dollar amount re-
quested for intelligence or intelligence re-
lated activities of each element of the Gov-
ernment engaged in such activities; to the
Committee on the Budget.
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 2736. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify that the estate of a
deceased veteran may receive certain ac-
crued benefits upon the death of the veteran,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY, Mr. LUJÁN, and Mr.
FLEISCHMANN):
H. Con. Res. 38. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of the Congress that the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) continues to make an invalu-
able contribution to United States and inter-
national security, and noting former Senator
Richard G. Lugar’s indispensable contribu-
tions to international security and reducing
nuclear weapons-related risks; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself and Mr.
BOST):
H. Res. 378. A resolution honoring the ac-
complishments and legacy of Arthur ‘‘Art’’
Simon; to the Committee on Agriculture,
and in addition to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
YOHO, Ms. PINGREE, and Mr. HUNTER):
H. Res. 379. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of July as ‘‘American
Grown Flower Month’’; to the Committee on
Agriculture.
By Mr. PAYNE:
H. Res. 380. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week of May 13
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MY7.100 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3790 May 14, 2019
through May 20, 2019, as Infrastructure
Week; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. PETERSON (for himself and
Mr. CRAWFORD):
H. Res. 381. A resolution recognizing the
REALTORS Land Institute on the occasion
of its 75th anniversary; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. WATKINS (for himself, Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas, Mr. MARSHALL, and
Mr. ESTES):
H. Res. 382. A resolution honoring the 65th
anniversary of the landmark decision of the
Supreme Court in Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation (347 U.S. 483 (1954)); to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, private
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 2737. A bill for the relief of Corina de
Chalup Turcinovic; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 2738. A bill for the relief of Ravidath
Lawrence Ragbir; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 2689.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER:
H.R. 2690.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress, as enu-
merated in Article I, Section 8 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 2691.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 2692.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 and Article I,
Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut
H.R. 2693.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 2694.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clauses 3 and 18 of Section 8 of Article 1 of
the Constitution and section 5 of Amend-
ment XIV to the Constitution.
By Mr. MCCARTHY:
H.R. 2695.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 2696.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8, cl. 1
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 2697.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8, cl. 1
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 2698.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following: Article 1,
Section 8
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 2699.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States grants Congress the au-
thority to enact this bill.
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 2700.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section I, Clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution, in that the legislation con-
cerns the exercise of legislative powers gen-
erally granted to Congress, including the ex-
ercise of those powers when delegated by
Congress to the Executive. Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the U.S. Constitution in that
the legislation exercises legislative powers
granted to Congress by that clause ‘‘to regu-
late Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.’’
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 2701.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BASS:
H.R. 2702.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the United States
Constitution, providing—‘‘All legislative
Powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall
consist of a Senate and House of Representa-
tives.’’
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2703.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2704.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2705.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause I
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 2706.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H.R. 2707.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 9
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 2708.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. COURTNEY:
H.R. 2709.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2710.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2711.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 2712.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8, US Constitution
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 2713.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 2714.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 2715.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 2716.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 2717.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 2718.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 2719.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII of the U.S. Constitu-
tion [Page H9431]
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 2720.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14MY7.100 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3791
May 14, 2019
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 2721.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 1 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises’’ in order
to ‘‘provide for the . . . general Welfare of
the United States.’’
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 2722.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This proposal is introduced pursuant to Ar-
ticle I, Section 4.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL:
H.R. 2723.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 2724.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 2725.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2726.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 2727.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H.R. 2728.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
As described in Article 1, Section 1, ‘‘all
legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution provides Congress with the author-
ity to ‘‘provide for the common Defense and
general Welfare’’ of Americans. In the De-
partment of Education Organization Act
(P.L. 96–88), Congress declared that ‘‘the es-
tablishment of a Department of Education is
in the public interest, will promote the gen-
eral welfare of the United States, will help
ensure that education issues receive proper
treatment at the Federal level, and will en-
able the Federal Government to coordinate
its education activities more effectively.’’
The Department of Education’s mission is to
‘‘promote student achievement and prepara-
tion for global competitiveness by fostering
educational excellence and ensuring equal
access.’’
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 2729.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ:
H.R. 2730.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SMITH of Washington:
H.R. 2731.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. STANTON:
H.R. 2732.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 2733.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 2734.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 2735.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof . .
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 2736.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 2737.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 4 of the Con-
stitution provides that Congress shall have
power to ‘‘establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization.’’ The Supreme Court has long
found that this provision of the Constitution
grants Congress plenary power over immi-
gration policy. As the Court found in Galvan
v. Press, 347 U.S. 522, 531 (1954), ‘‘that the for-
mulation of policies [pertaining to the entry
of aliens and their right to remain here] is
entrusted exclusively to Congress has be-
come about as firmly embedded in the legis-
lative and judicial tissues of our body politic
as any aspect of our government.’’ And, as
the Court found in Kleindienst v. Mandel, 408
U.S. 753, 766 (1972) (quoting Boutilier v. INS,
387 U.S. 118, 123 (1967)), ‘‘[t]he Court without
exception has sustained Congress’ ‘plenary
power to make rules for the admission of
aliens and to exclude those who possess
those characteristics which Congress has for-
bidden.’ ’’
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 2738.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 25: Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 95: Mr. STANTON and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 117: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. MCGOVERN,
and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 141: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 158: Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 205: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 230: Ms. MATSUI, Ms. FUDGE, and Ms.
SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 257: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 285: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 295: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 296: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 309: Mr. HIMES and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire.
H.R. 366: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 372: Mr. SUOZZI and Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 375: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 383: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 389: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 500: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas and Mr.
STEWART.
H.R. 510: Ms. OMAR, Mr. YOHO, and Mr.
SMUCKER.
H.R. 535: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 553: Ms. FRANKEL, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. WRIGHT, and Mr.BERA.
H.R. 555: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 586: Mrs. LESKO, Mr. BABIN, Mr. YOHO,
and Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 613: Ms. OMAR and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 647: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 662: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 693: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
VEASEY, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. PAYNE, and Ms. STE-
VENS.
H.R. 720: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 728: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. KENNEDY, Mrs.
LURIA, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. GRIJALVA, and Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 748: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. KEATING,
Mr. CORREA, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
Ms. ESHOO, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. DEUTCH,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. PORTER, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. NEAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. VEASEY, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. SARBANES, Ms. WATERS, Mr.
DUNN, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Ohio, and Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 767: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 792: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 801: Mr. CASE and Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi.
H.R. 806: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 816: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 860: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 873: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. LEVIN
of Michigan, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
STEWART, and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 874: Mr. PAYNE and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD.
H.R. 884: Mr. HIMES and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 919: Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 958: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 961: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1004: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1005: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1019: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1023: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 1025: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1032: Mr. CROW, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. LOFGREN, Mrs.
TRAHAN, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1035: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1037: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1043: Mr. ALLRED and Mr. COMER.
H.R. 1044: Mr. KIM, Mr. MULLIN, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, Mr. DOGGETT, and Mr.
TRONE.
H.R. 1058: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. STEW-
ART, Mr. HORSFORD, and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 1073: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 1086: Mr. DESAULNIER and Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.032 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3792 May 14, 2019
H.R. 1097: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1133: Mr. NORCROSS, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1140: Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. DELGADO, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. BEYER, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
CRIST, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. TRONE, and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1146: Mrs. BUSTOS, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1154: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. TED LIEU of California, and Mr.
CISNEROS.
H.R. 1156: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 1163: Mr. COOK.
H.R. 1169: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1173: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 1175: Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. GRAVES of Mis-
souri, Mr. WOMACK, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. DUNN,
and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1199: Mrs. RADEWAGEN and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1200: Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. ALLRED,
Mr. CARTER of Georgia, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1210: Ms. MOORE, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Ms. SPANBERGER, and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 1220: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1224: Miss RICE of New York and Mr.
KENNEDY.
H.R. 1225: Mrs. DINGELL, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
STANTON, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. FOSTER, and Mr.
LYNCH.
H.R. 1228: Mr. STAUBER and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1236: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Mrs.
LOWEY.
H.R. 1243: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1256: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. NORTON, and
Mr. COOK.
H.R. 1309: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. SARBANES,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr.
GALLEGO, and Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 1313: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1325: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 1327: Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. BUCSHON,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. HAGEDORN, Ms.
WATERS, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. WATKINS, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr. TIMMONS,
Mr. DOGGETT, and Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 1342: Mr. SMUCKER.
H.R. 1351: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1360: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1374: Mr. BYRNE, Mr. HILL of Arkan-
sas, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr. YOHO,
Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. DUN-
CAN, Mr. FULCHER, and Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 1379: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. YOUNG, and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1380: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1437: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1450: Mr. SOTO and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1472: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 1474: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1507: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 1511: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1521: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1530: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 1551: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1553: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1554: Mr. BUDD and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 1556: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 1592: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1595: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1599: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1603: Ms. BROWNLEY of California and
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 1620: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1629: Mr. KIM, Mr. SIRES, Mr. HOL-
LINGSWORTH, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mr.
REED.
H.R. 1646: Mr. DEUTCH and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1666: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 1671: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1692: Mr. EVANS, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
PETERS, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 1696: Mr. AMODEI and Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 1702: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 1721: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1723: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 1730: Mr. TIPTON and Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 1748: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. SUOZZI, and
Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1766: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1767: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. COLLINS of
New York.
H.R. 1775: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1777: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1781: Mr. CONNOLLY and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1786: Mr. JEFFRIES and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1789: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1830: Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
and Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 1837: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1854: Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. VAN DREW,
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi, and Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 1857: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 1865: Mr. BYRNE, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr.
TURNER, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Mr. SMUCKER,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. STANTON, Mrs.
HARTZLER, and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 1869: Ms. NORTON, Mrs. LESKO, Ms.
DELBENE, and Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1878: Ms. WATERS and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1890: Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 1892: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1896: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania and
Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1897: Mr. COHEN, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mrs. BUSTOS,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. VEASEY,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, and Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 1911: Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 1912: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 1919: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1941: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1948: Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. COOK, Mrs. WAGNER,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
BURCHETT, Mrs. MILLER, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, and
Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 1959: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1962: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 1965: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 1979: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 1982: Mr. ENGEL, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 1999: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. HARDER of
California, and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2023: Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. SHIMKUS, and
Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 2037: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2051: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 2056: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. CASE, and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2066: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2079: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 2088: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2100: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2117: Mr. KHANNA and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 2136: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2142: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 2146: Mrs. DAVIS of California and Mr.
SCHIFF.
H.R. 2148: Mr. SERRANO, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms.
SCANLON, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms.
SPEIER, and Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 2149: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 2150: Mr. TONKO, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
WATKINS, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. GIANFORTE, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Mr.YOUNG.
H.R. 2164: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 2178: Mr. MAST, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
MEEKS, and Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 2200: Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.R. 2201: Mr. KILDEE and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 2202: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2203: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 2215: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2218: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2219: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 2222: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2226: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 2235: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2236: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 2278: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 2294: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 2313: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 2314: Mr. SHIMKUS.
H.R. 2316: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 2322: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. STIVERS, and Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia.
H.R. 2328: Mrs. HARTZLER, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 2336: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. LOEBSACK,
Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. HARDER of California,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. BRINDISI, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
KIND, and Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 2339: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER and Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 2340: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2349: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2353: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 2354: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. HILL of California, and Mr.
CICILLINE.
H.R. 2355: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2379: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. BYRNE, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, and Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 2382: Ms. DELAURO, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
COOK, Mr. KING of New York, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. KAPTUR, and Mr.
KIM.
H.R. 2405: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 2410: Mr. CLAY and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 2411: Mr. GOTTHEIMER and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 2412: Mrs. HARTZLER and Mr. GREEN of
Tennessee.
H.R. 2415: Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Mr. HECK, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. NORTON, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. PASCRELL, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
VARGAS, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, and Mr.
WELCH.
H.R. 2420: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 2422: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2433: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. CASE,
and Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 2435: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
WEBSTER of Florida, Mr. VELA, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. PHILLIPS,
and Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 2441: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 2443: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2448: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.036 H14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3793
May 14, 2019
H.R. 2449: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia and Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 2458: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 2460: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 2466: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
BURCHETT, Mr. CLAY, Ms. DEAN, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. LEWIS,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina,
Mr. ROUDA, and Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 2468: Ms. NORTON, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. COX of California, Ms. WILD, and Mr.
KHANNA.
H.R. 2474: Mr. VELA, Mrs. DEMINGS, and Mr.
GOMEZ.
H.R. 2476: Mr. MAST, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2480: Mr. ALLEN, Mr. BYRNE, and Mr.
ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 2481: Mr. MOULTON, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. PAPPAS,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. CREN-
SHAW, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. MAST,
Mr. CALVERT, Mr. WATKINS, Mr. MCEACHIN,
Mr. BAIRD, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. TRONE, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. BERA,
Mr. COX of California, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, Mr. COLE, Ms. CHENEY, and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 2489: Mr. MEEKS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
OMAR, and Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 2493: Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 2504: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2509: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 2512: Mr. DIAZ-BALART and Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 2533: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2550: Ms. WATERS and Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia.
H.R. 2557: Mr. KIM, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mrs. TORRES of California,
and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 2560: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 2561: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 2576: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 2577: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 2581: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, and Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 2585: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. BROWNLEY
of California, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan.
H.R. 2591: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2597: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2599: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 2602: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. OMAR, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. FOS-
TER, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 2609: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 2617: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 2620: Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 2635: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2637: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. ROSE of New York, and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2644: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 2648: Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. CLYBURN, Ms.
HAALAND, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2662: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. JAYAPAL, and Mr.
AGUILAR.
H.R. 2671: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2674: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 2687: Mrs. DINGELL and Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
H.J. Res. 7: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.J. Res. 57: Mr. PHILLIPS and Ms. WILD.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, and
Mr. MEUSER.
H. Con. Res. 37: Mr. COURTNEY.
H. Res. 23: Mr. DOGGETT, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
MAST, and Mrs. BEATTY.
H. Res. 33: Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. DOGGETT,
Mr. PETERSON, Ms. WILD, and Ms. HAALAND.
H. Res. 54: Ms. CHENEY, Mr. MAST, and Ms.
WILD.
H. Res. 60: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H. Res. 78: Mr. ROUDA.
H. Res. 138: Mr. CICILLINE.
H. Res. 152: Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 174: Mr. SUOZZI.
H. Res. 189: Mr. GUEST, Mrs. WAGNER, and
Mr. CASE.
H. Res. 231: Mr. CROW and Mr. LEVIN of
California.
H. Res. 233: Ms. OMAR.
H. Res. 255: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H. Res. 269: Mr. WALTZ.
H. Res. 323: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H. Res. 325: Ms. OMAR, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Ms. SPEIER,
and Mr. PALLONE.
H. Res. 326: Mr. RUSH, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Ms. MOORE, Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mr. HIMES, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. LEVIN
of California, Mr. DOGGETT, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. THOMPSON of California, and Ms.
SCHRIER.
H. Res. 338: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H. Res. 340: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 364: Ms. PORTER, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Mr. SHERMAN.
H. Res. 368: Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mrs. BEATTY,
and Ms. WATERS.
H. Res. 371: Mr. PAYNE and Mr. HASTINGS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:27 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY7.041 H14MYPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2797
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, MAY 14, 2019 No. 80
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O mighty God, our gracious King, we
thank You that Your power is still ac-
tive in our Nation and world. Forgive
us when we forget that You continue to
rule Your universe. Lord, we are grate-
ful for the confidence You have given
us that You hear and answer our pray-
ers. Use the Members of this body as
ambassadors of reconciliation. Help
them to create laws that will bring
wholeness to a fragmented nation and
world. Lord, infuse them with a spirit
of contemplative stillness so that they
will find joy in righteousness, justice,
and integrity.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the Truncale nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Michael J.
Truncale, of Texas, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of Texas.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
to speak for 1 minute as in morning
business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
to commemorate this year’s National
Police Week, I joined a bipartisan
group of Senators on a resolution to
honor these people who lost their lives
in order to protect our lives. The men
and women of law enforcement make
sacrifices every day to protect their
families and fellow citizens. We are in-
debted to their dedication.
I want to express my appreciation for
each and every police officer, fire-
fighter, first responder, and other law
enforcement officers who work dili-
gently to protect our friends and fami-
lies.
All of those visiting Washington this
week to commemorate National Police
Week, if you get a chance to see them
on the streets of Washington, DC,
thank them for their service.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
this morning’s New York Times con-
tained a stunning report that President
Trump’s top national security aid had
been presented with a plan that would
‘‘send as many as 120,000 troops to the
Middle East should Iran attack Amer-
ican forces or accelerate work on nu-
clear weapons’’—120,000 American
troops in the Middle East. This report
is completely baffling and incredibly
alarming.
What is the strategy here? The ad-
ministration just began a maximum
pressure campaign of sanctions against
Iran to squeeze its economy. Doesn’t it
make sense to see if your policy is
working before preparing for potential
troop deployments, particularly in
such large numbers? Six months ago
the President was trying to pull U.S.
forces out of the Middle East entirely,
against the advice of many in our de-
fense and diplomatic communities.
Now his national security team is re-
viewing plans for war?
Meanwhile, President Trump has not
laid out what his plans are, what his
long-term strategy in the Middle East
is, or even given a speech about Iran.
So why on Earth are his advisers dis-
cussing plans to entrench U.S. ground
troops in the Middle East for who
knows how long? It seems that
hardliners in the administration are
pushing the conversation in a very dan-
gerous direction, and I am very con-
cerned.
U.S. foreign policy depends upon the
stable execution of a consistent policy,
but all too often the Trump adminis-
tration has seemed capable of neither
stability nor consistency. The erratic
behavior of the President and the chaos
he instills in his administration has led
to numerous blunders at home and
abroad. We should all hope that this re-
port is just that—another blunder—and
not the beginnings of a rush by the
President’s hawkish advisers to height-
en military tensions with Iran.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.000 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2798 May 14, 2019
There are many questions for the
President, but here are two. Why do we
need more troops in the Iran area right
now? Why? And why such a large num-
ber—120,000, which is as many as the
total number of troops we have had in
Iraq at significant times.
PUERTO RICO
Now, there are a lot of Americans
still waiting at this point for Puerto
Rico and the disaster bill. A lot of
Americans are still waiting for the
Senate to put politics aside and help
them piece their lives back together
from natural disasters last year, from
wildfires to floods, from tornadoes to
hurricanes. Because of climate change,
our weather is different—considerably
different—and Americans are paying
the price. We are also paying the price
for not taking leadership on climate.
But now I am here to discuss this relief
package. Throughout our discussions
here in Congress about the relief pack-
age, Democrats have maintained that
it must include relief for all Americans
affected by disasters last year, not just
those Americans who live in the West
and Midwest or South, but also the 3
million citizens living in Puerto Rico.
It is not a zero-sum game. It is not that
if you help Puerto Rico you would not
be helping Florida or Iowa. You can
help them all, and that is what Ameri-
cans have always done.
But there is some good news. I must
say that I am encouraged that Repub-
licans are starting to realize that we
cannot leave Puerto Rico out. It may
not have happened had Democrats not
insisted all along that Puerto Rico be
included, but our Republican friends
are beginning to realize that if Puerto
Rico is not in the package, no package
will pass. As for their intransigence
and obeisance to President Trump,
when he came in out of the clear blue
one day and bollixed up the package
that had been carefully worked out be-
tween the Democrats and Republicans
by insisting that no aid to Puerto Rico
be in the package, it is clear to our Re-
publican friends that is not working,
and I am encouraged that Republicans
have moved into our direction when it
comes to disaster in Puerto Rico. I
hope that we can find agreement soon
and put this totally unnecessary polit-
ical fight behind us and finally deliver
relief to disaster-stricken Americans,
wherever they may be.
HEALTHCARE
Madam President, 133 million Ameri-
cans under 65 years of age are living
with a preexisting condition of some
kind. Right now, because of the laws on
the books, insurance companies cannot
charge those Americans more or deny
them coverage simply because they
have a preexisting condition. That is a
great thing. That is something Ameri-
cans longed for before these protec-
tions became law.
But, unfortunately, that could all
change and go away if the lawsuit
against our healthcare law brought by
Republican attorneys general and sup-
ported by the Trump administration
succeeds. It would deprive health cov-
erage for tens of millions of Americans
and risk denial of coverage or exorbi-
tant premiums for up to 133 million
Americans with preexisting conditions.
That scale of cruelty is so large that it
is almost unimaginable—to tell 133
million Americans that you will not
get protections if, God forbid, you have
an illness and your insurance company
wants to cut you off. Yet those are the
practical consequences of the lawsuit
that the Trump Department of Justice
continues to support. While that law-
suit is a fundamental threat to our
country’s healthcare system, led by
President Trump and supported by just
about every Republican in this Cham-
ber, the Trump administration has also
spent much of the past 2 years sabo-
taging and undermining healthcare at
every turn.
As for this ideology that the govern-
ment should not help people who have
healthcare problems, well, about 90
percent of all Americans do not agree
with that, but somehow it is dominant
in the White House and dominant in
the Republican Senate. Last week the
House passed legislation that would re-
verse the Trump administration. It is
good that the new majority in the
House is taking action.
Later this week the House is poised
to pass another package of legislation
to further protect preexisting condi-
tions and help Americans sign up for
quality health coverage. But so far
none of the bills that protect Ameri-
cans’ healthcare have received any at-
tention from the Republican leader,
Senator MCCONNELL, and that is a
shame—a real shame.
Leader MCCONNELL has slowly but
surely been turning the Senate into a
legislative graveyard, where even the
most consequential and noncontrover-
sial legislation gets buried indefinitely.
Just take the House-passed legisla-
tion on preexisting conditions as an ex-
ample. This is extraordinarily popular
with the American people. A Kaiser
poll found that nearly 70 percent of
Americans do not want the courts to
overturn protections for preexisting
conditions. I don’t think any of my col-
leagues would argue on the merits that
we should go back to a healthcare sys-
tem where insurance companies could
discriminate against a child with can-
cer. In fact, several of my Republican
colleagues who recently won reelection
ran ads explicitly saying they were for
protections for Americans with pre-
existing conditions. So why will the
Republican leader not commit to at
least putting up legislation to do that?
I hope it is not because my Republican
colleagues want to be able to say one
thing and do another. I hope it is not
because of the influence of dark
money. I hope that is not why. So I
would say to the leader: Do not throw
healthcare legislation into the legisla-
tive graveyard. Do not throw the
healthcare of the American people into
the legislative graveyard.
The American people are worried
about rising costs and declining qual-
ity. They are worried that if they are
sick, they could wake up any day and
no longer have access to healthcare.
That is a very real threat that millions
of Americans face under the Trump ad-
ministration. Healthcare was the No. 1
issue for most Americans in the last
election. We should be doing something
to protect American families from the
Trump administration’s effort to un-
dermine healthcare. I understand that
my Republican colleagues do not want
to cross the President, but this issue is
too important to too many American
families to remain silent, too impor-
tant for our Republican colleagues not
to go to their leader—especially, those
colleagues who campaigned for pre-
existing condition protections—and
tell the leader that we must bring this
legislation to the floor.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, when
Republicans took office at the begin-
ning of the 115th Congress, we had one
goal in mind, and that was to make life
better for American families. We knew
that American families were strug-
gling. Recovery from the great reces-
sion was long and slow. Economic
growth was sluggish. Wages were stag-
nant. Too many families were living
paycheck to paycheck. American fami-
lies needed relief, and Republicans
were determined to give it to them.
That is why we made getting our
economy going again a priority. We
knew that our economy needed to do a
lot better if American families were
going to start doing better. A strong
economy is the key to getting Ameri-
cans access to the jobs, wages, and op-
portunities they need to thrive.
So we took action. We eliminated
burdensome regulations that were act-
ing as a drag on economic growth, and
we passed a historic reform of our Tax
Code to put more money in Americans’
pockets and to get our economy going
again.
We cut tax rates and doubled the
child tax credit, and in 2018 the average
family of four saw a tax cut of more
than $2,000. We lowered tax rates for
businesses, expanded business owners’
ability to invest in their operations
and their workers and made American
businesses more competitive in the
global economy.
We are seeing the results. Job cre-
ation is up. Wages are growing at the
fastest pace in a decade. Personal in-
come is up. Unemployment is at the
lowest level in 50 years. Tax reform is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.010 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2799
May 14, 2019
delivering bigger paychecks, more op-
portunities, and a better quality of life
for American workers.
Tax reform might be our biggest
achievement in the 115th Congress, but
it is far from the only thing that we
did to make life better for American
families. We also enacted legislation to
provide better education and training
to American workers. We passed multi-
billion-dollar bipartisan legislation to
combat the opioid epidemic, which has
devastated families and communities
across the United States.
We passed the longest extension of
the Children’s Health Insurance Pro-
gram in the program’s history. We
passed legislation to provide hope to
terminally ill patients by giving them
access to experimental treatments. We
passed bipartisan clean energy legisla-
tion. We passed a farm bill to support
our Nation’s farmers and ranchers, to
protect our environment, and more.
But there is more work to be done.
Republicans are working right now to
develop and pass legislation to con-
tinue to address the cost of living and
to improve Americans’ quality of life.
We are committed to making tax relief
permanent for American families. We
are also committed to ensure that the
economic progress we have made sticks
around for the long term.
We are working to open new markets
for American goods and services so
that American workers and businesses
can thrive. One priority is passing the
United States-Mexico-Canada Free
Trade Agreement, which would grow
our economy and create 167,000 new
jobs.
Republicans are also committed to
making healthcare more affordable. We
want to give Americans more and more
affordable insurance options. We are
working on legislation to reduce the
cost of prescription drugs and increase
access to lower cost generics. We are
focused on developing solutions that
will bring greater clarity to healthcare
costs and address so-called surprise
billing. You should not go to an in-net-
work hospital expecting to pay one
thing and then get an unexpected enor-
mous bill weeks later because it wasn’t
disclosed to you that the doctor you
saw wasn’t in your insurance network.
Another challenge facing American
families is the cost of education. Re-
publicans are currently working on leg-
islation to make it easier to apply for
Federal student aid and to pay back
student loans. We will also continue to
support career and technical education,
and we will work to further increase
the usefulness of 529 savings plans to
help families plan and meet edu-
cational expenses.
One bright spot for family budgets
over the past few years has been energy
costs. Republican policies have helped
to make energy more affordable, and
we are committed to keeping Ameri-
can’s energy bills reasonable by sup-
porting responsible energy develop-
ment.
We are also committed to continuing
our work to keep our air clean and our
environment healthy.
We currently have multiple bills in
the pipeline to promote clean energy
technologies with more to come. There
are a lot of other Republican plans that
I could talk about, everything from
making it easier for small businesses
to offer retirement plans to ensuring
that rural communities enjoy equal ac-
cess to broadband services and the eco-
nomic opportunities that they bring.
One thing the American people can
count on is that Republicans are work-
ing every day to improve Americans’
quality of life. Our proposals may not
always make it into the news. A lot of
them do not have catchy names, like
the Green New Deal, and they do not
make pie-in-the-sky promises. But un-
like the so-called Green New Deal, our
plans are actually achievable, and they
would actually make life better for
American families.
I am proud that more families are
thriving today thanks to tax reform
and to other Republican policies, and
Republicans will continue to work
every day to make sure that life con-
tinues to improve for the American
people.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, all postcloture time
has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Truncale nomi-
nation?
Mr. THUNE. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY),
and the Senator from South Dakota
(Mr. ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) and the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Are there any other
Senators in the Chamber desiring to
vote?
The result was announced—yeas 49,
nays 46, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 108 Ex.]
YEAS—49
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—46
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Romney
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—5
Cassidy
Gillibrand
Hirono
Kennedy
Rounds
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
actions.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kenneth Kiyul Lee, of California,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, Chuck
Grassley, James E. Risch, Johnny Isak-
son, John Barrasso, Steve Daines,
David Perdue, Roger F. Wicker, Jerry
Moran, John Cornyn, John Thune,
Richard Burr, Mike Crapo, Pat Rob-
erts, Lindsey Graham, Shelley Moore
Capito.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Kenneth Kiyul Lee, of California, to
be United States Circuit Court Judge,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY),
and the Senator from South Dakota
(Mr. ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) and the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), are necessarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 50,
nays 45, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.011 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2800 May 14, 2019
[Rollcall Vote No. 109 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—5
Cassidy
Gillibrand
Hirono
Kennedy
Rounds
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 45.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Kenneth Kiyul Lee, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that all time dur-
ing recess, adjournment, morning busi-
ness, and leader remarks count
postcloture on the Lee nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
IMMIGRATION
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, over the
years, I have spent a great deal of time
on the Senate floor highlighting the
evolving challenges along our southern
border.
My home State of Texas shares a
1,200-mile common border with Mexico,
so any major shift in terms of who or
what is arriving at the border is felt
quickly by my constituents and by my
State. In recent months, I have heard
from the Border Patrol, local officials,
nongovernmental organizations, com-
munity leaders, businesses of every
size, and just average citizens alike
about how the situation today is far
more challenging than it has ever been
before.
In the past, the number of illegal bor-
der crossings have fluctuated by vary-
ing degrees, but now we have seen a
complete shift not only in number but
also in the ‘‘who’’ of those crossing.
While we used to see single adults from
Mexico, that is simply not the case
anymore. There is no new net migra-
tion from Mexico, we are told. As Bor-
der Patrol Chief Carla Provost high-
lighted in a hearing last week, 68 per-
cent of those apprehended are now fam-
ilies or unaccompanied children, and
that is on purpose. The human smug-
glers have figured out what our laws
are and how to exploit them in order to
successfully place people in the United
States by overwhelming our system.
The 68 percent of families or unaccom-
panied children amounts to roughly
293,000 apprehensions so far this fiscal
year—293,000. What is more, 70 percent
of the unaccompanied children and
families are occurring in just two Bor-
der Patrol sectors, the El Paso sector
and the Rio Grande Valley sector,
making the State of Texas and its bor-
der communities the hardest hit.
The vast majority of those crossing
aren’t from Mexico. They are coming
from Mexico, but they are actually
coming through Mexico. So far this fis-
cal year, 74 percent of the Border Pa-
trol’s apprehensions along the southern
border are people from Guatemala,
Honduras, and El Salvador—what is
called the Northern Triangle. This
means that in 7 months, nearly 341,000
people from the Northern Triangle of
Central America made the decision to
leave their homes and to make a dan-
gerous journey in the hands of a human
smuggler to illegally enter the United
States. Here is another shocking sta-
tistic, Acting Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Kevin
McAleenan recently noted that Guate-
mala and Honduras have seen more
than 1 percent of their total population
migrate to the United States in the
first 7 months of this fiscal year—more
than 1 percent of their entire popu-
lation.
While it is abundantly clear that the
mass movement of people across our
border is a problem that must be ad-
dressed, it is an understatement to say
that Members of the Senate disagree
on what a solution looks like. We spent
a lot of time debating the semantics of
the entire situation without making
any real progress. I believe our strat-
egy to alleviate this humanitarian cri-
sis hinges on three important steps:
First, we need stronger physical se-
curity at the border. The experts have
told us that means three things: bar-
riers and, in-hard-to-control places,
people—that is law enforcement—and
technology. That is what our frontline
officers and agents need to do their
jobs, and that is what we should pro-
vide.
Secondly, we need to provide Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement and
Customs and Border Patrol with the
authorities—that means the laws—
they need in order to effectively do
their job. That includes closing the
loopholes that are being exploited by
the human smugglers and the illegal
immigrants entering the country be-
cause they have figured out how to
game the system. They know our laws
better than most Americans do.
Both of these are what are called pull
factors—what attract people to come
to the United States illegally. They are
gaps in our physical security and legal
system that encourage Central Amer-
ican migrants to make the dangerous
journey north because their chances of
making their way into the interior of
our country are pretty high.
There is a critical third step here. We
also need to eliminate the push factors.
That is what is driving people from
Central America on that dangerous
road north through Mexico into the
United States. The reason so many of
these families are leaving their home
countries in the first place boils down
to poverty and violence. We know these
three countries in the Northern Tri-
angle are plagued by crime, corruption,
and a lack of economic opportunities.
Sometimes it is difficult for Americans
to grasp the deep-seated nature of
these problems and why it is so tough
to resolve them because it is such a far
cry from what most have experienced
here at home.
In October of 2018, the International
Organization for Migration conducted a
survey of a group of Salvadoran mi-
grants who banded together as a cara-
van to make the journey north. It
found that 52 percent of the people who
were coming from El Salvador cited
economic opportunity as their motive
for leaving the region, 18 percent cited
violence and insecurity, 2 percent said
they wanted to unify their families,
and 28 percent cited some combination
of these factors. Now, this may not be
the case for migrants from each coun-
try, but it paints a broad picture of
how these challenges are affecting
them.
We must help these countries address
their problems, but we can’t do it for
them. Looking at South America and
the successful efforts we have had to
help countries rebuild themselves into
successful economies with security for
their people, there is one that stands
out the most, and that is Colombia.
What is different about Colombia from
the rest of these countries is we had,
one, a bipartisan plan that was applied
over many years by both Republican
and Democratic administrations. We
also had a strong partner, a leader,
President Uribe in Colombia, which is
something we are missing in Central
America. Then we had a plan, as the
name Plan Colombia suggests, so we
knew what we were doing, and we knew
how to measure success. We don’t have
any of these things now as part of our
effort to help the Central American
countries help themselves.
Having said that, I think that is a
challenge we need to rise to, to find a
way of helping these countries create
economic opportunities and security
for their people so we can help relieve
some of the strain on our own border.
This morning, my colleague from
Delaware, Senator CARPER, and I par-
ticipated in a discussion by the Bush
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.001 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2801
May 14, 2019
Center and the Atlantic Council on
how to promote economic growth in
the Northern Triangle. I think it is
very helpful for these think tanks to
gather experts and come up with pro-
posals we can consider and then vote
on. Frankly, it is very hard for Con-
gress—we don’t have really the band-
width to come up with proposals from
the start, so it is helpful to have smart
people from around the country, ex-
perts, who can help advise us.
We know this: One of the most funda-
mental problems standing in the way
of prosperity for Central America is
the security crisis. Because of endemic
corruption and powerful criminal orga-
nizations, a genuine rule of law is miss-
ing in these countries and has been for
generations. We have had some suc-
cesses partnering with our closest
neighbor in this crisis, Mexico, and I
believe we can continue to build upon
some of the programs we already have
in place there. For example, the United
States has partnered with Mexico in re-
cent years through programs like the
Merida Initiative to combat drug traf-
ficking, transnational organized crime,
and money laundering. There is a need
for increased security cooperation and
burden sharing to lessen the regional
insecurity and damage caused by the
growing influence of cartels, gangs, and
transnational criminal organizations.
We have directed funds toward
strengthening communities and em-
powering the Mexican criminal justice
system and judicial system to help
combat the rampant culture of impu-
nity that exists in Mexico, and I be-
lieve we have made some marginal
gains, although there is a lot of work
that needs to be done. We have also
shared intelligence and cooperated in
providing various forms of security.
The Bureau of International Nar-
cotics Control and Law Enforcement
continues to work to develop programs
to combat international narcotics and
crime, especially in Central America,
but U.S. funding for this program in
Mexico has stagnated. Additional aid
for this program would combat
transnational criminal organizations,
improve drug interdiction, and train
Mexican law enforcement and judicial
personnel.
Moving forward, we should begin to
look at the effectiveness of these exist-
ing programs so we can take full ad-
vantage of the work they do and ensure
they are modernized to confront the
evolving epidemic. It is nearly impos-
sible to determine how or if this money
is benefiting the people hit hardest by
this crime and corruption, and that
needs to change. It is no news that the
Trump administration has recently an-
nounced its decision to suspend aid to
Central America. While I believe aid to
these countries is important in pro-
viding any semblance of long-term sta-
bility, I also think it is important to
fundamentally examine where this
money is going, what we are trying to
achieve, and how effective these pro-
grams are at achieving that goal. That
seems pretty simple, pretty straight-
forward, but we actually don’t have a
plan, and we don’t have any metrics to
measure our progress.
We know the problem is getting
worse because the number of people
showing up on our border just con-
tinues to increase.
If we are going to ask the American
taxpayer to foot the bill, we have a fi-
duciary duty to them to make sure the
money is going to be well spent in pur-
suit of American interests. We can’t do
that right now.
Every dollar should be responsibly
spent on initiatives to strengthen secu-
rity cooperation, improve governance,
enhance public security, and promote
prosperity through pro-growth reforms.
If that is not the case, then we need
to take a hard look at how we can im-
prove our foreign aid program.
We need to provide the resources and
training to help Central American
countries stabilize their governments
and their economies. But, again, we
can’t do this for them. We can’t want
an outcome more than they do. They
need to want this. They need to provide
the leadership to be a partner with us
to help execute an agreed-upon com-
mon plan, and then we need to be able
to show the American taxpayers that
their money is being well spent because
we are making measurable progress.
When the people begin to see the op-
portunity and safety in their home
countries, making a long migration
northward becomes less of a necessity.
I hope we can have these continued
discussions here in Congress over the
coming months. But even more than
that, I hope we can focus on this as a
problem that needs to be solved—one
that is above politics and beyond poli-
tics and one that really threatens the
security and safety of our own country
because not only do we know that mi-
grants come to the United States flee-
ing poverty and violence, but we also
know these same criminal organiza-
tions transmit drugs into the United
States. They move people for human
trafficking and sex slavery, and this is
a challenge for our country, as well as
the entire region.
We can do this if we will simply focus
on it and work together on this as a
problem to be solved. But, again, we
can’t do this for these countries in Cen-
tral America.
I think President Trump was correct
to suspend the money we are spending
there until we actually have a plan and
a willing partner to work with to im-
plement and execute this plan in a way
that can demonstrate measurable
progress.
We have a model in Colombia where
this has worked in the past, but around
the world where the United States is
engaged in nation building, there are
not a lot of models for success. There
are a lot of examples of failure because
of the complexity and difficulty of this,
but this is something that should be
getting our attention and something
that should be a priority for all of us.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. I ask unanimous
consent that the order for the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, in
commemoration of National Police
Week, families from across the country
are gathering in Washington to pay re-
spect to law enforcement officers who
lost their lives in the line of duty last
year.
Mississippi tragically lost four offi-
cers who are being recognized this
week at ceremonies in Mississippi and
here in the Nation’s Capital.
On May 17, 2018, Officer Emmett Paul
Morris, 61, of Louin, was killed in a car
crash. Having served the Raleigh and
Reservoir Police Departments, Officer
Morris was described as ‘‘a kind man
who had the spirit of service.’’
Patrolman LeAnn Simpson of Phila-
delphia, MS, died in an automobile
crash while responding to a call on No-
vember 24, 2018. She was just 23 years
old. Prior to joining the Philadelphia
Police Department, Simpson was a ser-
geant in the U.S. Army.
The loss of two other officers from
Mississippi last year has special sig-
nificance to me because they had dedi-
cated themselves to protecting my
hometown of Brookhaven in Lincoln
County, MS.
Officers James Kevin White, 35, of
Sontag, and Corporal Walter Zachery
Marshall Moak, 31, of Brookhaven, lost
their lives in a terrible standoff on Sep-
tember 29, 2018.
Corporal Moak served with the Lin-
coln County Sheriff’s Office before
serving with the Wesson and
Brookhaven Police Departments.
Officer White, in addition to being a
police officer, served in Iraq with the
Mississippi National Guard.
I join the families and communities
of these four Mississippi officers in re-
membering their lives and expressing
sincere gratitude for their service.
Sadly, their sacrifice did not end our
losses in Mississippi. Mississippians
just yesterday, this past Monday,
paused to mourn a veteran Biloxi po-
lice officer, Robert McKeithen, as he
was laid to rest after being gunned
down outside the police station on May
5, 2019—last Sunday.
These officers and Trooper Kenneth
‘‘Josh’’ Smith of the Mississippi High-
way Patrol, along with the more than
160 officers from around the country
who lost their lives, deserve national
recognition.
Law enforcement officers risk their
lives daily to help keep us safe, and
any loss of an officer deeply affects en-
tire communities. I greatly admire
members of the law enforcement com-
munity who remain steadfast in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.009 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2802 May 14, 2019
dangers of their noble profession. We
acknowledge their brave service and
fortify our support of their work to
protect our families and our commu-
nities.
I yield the floor.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:30 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
RECESS SUBJECT TO THE CALL OF
THE CHAIR
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in recess subject to the call of the
chair.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 2:15 p.m.,
recessed subject to the call of the Chair
and reassembled at 2:41 p.m. when
called to order by the Presiding Officer
(Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent to use my
leader time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
this week we observe National Police
Week, which is an annual gathering of
tens of thousands of law enforcement
personnel right here in our Nation’s
Capital. America will pay special trib-
ute tomorrow to the service and sac-
rifice of our fallen officers as we mark
Peace Officers Memorial Day.
Officers from all around the country
will join together to honor their broth-
ers and sisters in uniform who have
made the ultimate sacrifice, and the
rest of the Nation will remember how
blessed we are by the selfless sacrifices
of this ‘‘thin blue line’’ that protects
our families and keeps our commu-
nities safe.
I extend a warm welcome to the
many Kentuckians who have traveled
here this week, and along with them, I
am thinking especially of four of their
comrades whose names will be added to
the National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial this year: Hickman police of-
ficer Rodney Smith, whose patrol car
was washed into a field while he was
checking on members of his commu-
nity during a flood; Patrolman Scotty
Hamilton, of the Parkville Police De-
partment, who was murdered while he
was investigating a suspicious vehicle
for narcotics activity; Hopkinsville po-
lice officer Phillip Meacham, who was
shot and killed while off duty as he as-
sisted a fellow officer; and Louisville
Metro Police Department detective
Deidre Mengedoht, who was struck and
killed while conducting a traffic stop
on Christmas Eve.
With more than three decades of
combined service, these heroic Ken-
tuckians left behind spouses, children,
and an entire Commonwealth that
mourns their tragic losses. It is my
honor to have represented them in the
Senate and to represent all those who
wear the uniform. It was an honor to
proudly cosponsor the resolution desig-
nating this as National Police Week.
I also pause to recognize the U.S.
Capitol Police, whose officers protect
all of us in this building every day.
Their professionalism and dedicated
service make our democracy possible
and allow millions of visitors to ob-
serve their government up close each
year.
NOMINATIONS
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, this morning, we voted to confirm
Michael Truncale to serve as a U.S. dis-
trict judge for the Eastern District of
Texas. Now we are considering Kenneth
Lee, of California, who is slated to
serve as a judge on the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Mr. Lee is a graduate of Cornell Uni-
versity and Harvard Law School, and
he held a clerkship in the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals. Since then, his
record has been marked by his success
in private practice as a litigator, in his
distinguished public service as an Asso-
ciate White House Counsel during the
Bush administration, and in his work
as an adjunct professor at Pepperdine
University School of Law.
In addition to a ‘‘unanimously well
qualified’’ rating from the ABA, which
is the best it can give, and a favorable
report from the Judiciary Committee,
Mr. Lee has earned the especially high
esteem of one of our own colleagues.
The junior Senator from Arkansas at-
tended law school with the nominee.
He has personally testified that Mr.
Lee is ‘‘not only a brilliant lawyer, but
more important, he’s a man of high
character.’’
So I hope, as this body continues our
work toward swiftly processing the
backlog of well-qualified nominees on
the Executive Calendar, that each of
my colleagues will join me in sup-
porting the confirmation of Kenneth
Lee.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Madam President, on one final mat-
ter, since the beginning of this Con-
gress, the Nation has watched two fas-
cinating trends play out.
We have observed the job market—
and the opportunities available to
working Americans—continue to break
records and open new doors across the
country. At the very same time, we
have watched a new House Democratic
majority, along with our friends across
the aisle in this body, put forward a
laundry list of proposals that appear to
be tailor-made to shut those many
doors.
Two weeks ago, the contrast was
drawn especially stark. Just a few days
before we received a new Labor Depart-
ment report that 263,000 new jobs were
created during the month of April,
House Democrats held a hearing on leg-
islation to heap a massive new tax bur-
den on American producers and con-
sumers in pursuit of a one-size-fits-all,
Washington-run health insurance
scheme; news of the lowest national
unemployment rate since 1969 and a
roadmap for Medicare for None; an eco-
nomic moment that has seen more job
openings than job seekers for the first
time in recorded history alongside a
proposal for a Federal social program
that could leave taxpayers with an es-
timated $32 trillion bill.
It is not the first time I have men-
tioned this staggering pricetag here on
the floor, but the news of this reality is
spreading. Our friends in the press are
catching on to the fact that the plan to
implement Medicare for None isn’t as
neatly wrapped as its sponsors would
suggest. ‘‘Tax Hikes on the Wealthy
Alone Can’t Pay for ‘Medicare for
All.’’’ That was one headline from last
week. The cat is out of the bag. Ac-
cording to one analyst, ‘‘there isn’t $30
trillion sitting around from high earn-
ers . . . it just doesn’t exist.’’
Turning these socialist policies into
reality would fall on the shoulders of
all kinds of working families. Indeed,
raising what the Senate Democrats’
plan is estimated to cost over a 10-year
period would require, according to the
same analyst—listen to this—‘‘dou-
bling all personal and corporate in-
come taxes or tripling payroll taxes.’’
Let me say that again: doubling or tri-
pling the taxes that all Americans pay,
not just the wealthy. Far-left class
warfare rhetoric will not pay those
bills. That will take real money that
will have to be taken from real middle-
class families.
As communities across the country
continue to reap the benefits of this re-
markable opportunity economy—
helped by the policy accomplishments
that the Republicans have worked hard
to enact—the Democrats’ plan to pile
radical new costs on the shoulders of
the American people is looking like an
especially tough sell.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. CAPITO. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mrs. CAPITO. Madam President, this
week is National Police Week—a time
to honor the sacrifices and the service
of our Federal, State, and local law en-
forcement officers.
I want to take this opportunity as a
Senator from West Virginia to thank
the officers who keep our communities
across our country safe.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.012 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2803
May 14, 2019
I especially want to thank the State
troopers, the sheriffs, the deputy sher-
iffs of all 55 of our counties, and our
city police officers across West Vir-
ginia who serve and protect the Moun-
tain State.
Tomorrow, the 38th Annual National
Peace Officers Memorial Service—a
somber service—will honor 158 law en-
forcement heroes from across this Na-
tion who were killed in the line of duty
in the year 2018. We all mourn the loss
of these brave men and women.
Last night, I joined thousands, I be-
lieve, of officers on the National Mall
for their candlelight vigil in prepara-
tion for the Peace Officers Memorial
Service. What I saw there was really
astounding. I struck up conversations
with a lot of different people. I saw
sheriffs from Florida. I saw the motor-
cycle police officers from Texas. We
saw the mounted officers from all over
the country on beautiful equestrian
horses. We saw city police officers from
big cities and small cities, men and
women, young and old, serving our
country as our law enforcement offi-
cers.
As we did yesterday evening during
the candlelight vigil, we continue to
stand with not just the fallen heroes’
families but those who are serving us
now. Our country will never forget the
sacrifices our fallen law enforcement
officers and their families have made.
In the coming days, I hope that we
will further honor our police officers by
passing several pieces of bipartisan leg-
islation.
One of these bills is the Supporting
and Treating Officers in Crisis Act. It
was introduced by Senator HAWLEY.
The bill will reauthorize and improve
family support grants for law enforce-
ment officers to better address mental
health and suicide prevention.
Our law enforcement officers have to
deal with difficult and often tragic sit-
uations. They are the first to respond
to a difficult accident or the first to
view up close and personal the devasta-
tion of child abuse and other terrible
incidents. Responding to tragedy and
helping individuals through the worst
days of their lives would take a toll on
anybody. We need to be there for the
officers who are there for us by pro-
viding mental health services when
they are needed.
I also support passage of the Debbie
Smith Act, which was introduced by
Senator CORNYN. This will extend fund-
ing for DNA testing to reduce the rape
kit backlog, which has been histori-
cally quite large.
The West Virginia State Police and
Marshall University have partnered to
utilize some of this funding in my
State. It is important that we continue
providing resources to help our law en-
forcement officers bring justice to the
victims of rape and other violent
crimes.
Senator LEAHY’s bill to continue the
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program,
which we participate in, again, in West
Virginia, is also critical to protecting
the lives of our police officers.
All of these bills enjoy broad support
and should be passed soon.
The work of our police officers do in-
fluence so many aspects of our lives. In
West Virginia, where the opioid epi-
demic continues to devastate families
and communities across the State, our
police play a vital role. They help oth-
ers to stop bringing the drugs into our
towns to begin with. They assist with
those who are caught in the cycle of
addiction. By going to schools and
being school resource officers, they
prevent that next generation from
going down that path.
This week is also National Drug Pre-
vention Week, and the Martinsburg Ini-
tiative in West Virginia is a great ex-
ample of how our police can play such
a positive role in our children’s lives.
This initiative is spearheaded by the
Martinsburg Police Department, the
Berkeley County Schools, and Shepard
University, as well as a wide array of
local partners, most especially the
Boys & Girls Club of the Eastern Pan-
handle. Its goal is to stem the opioid
addiction problem by identifying and
trying to determine the basic causes of
drug abuse in at-risk families. The ef-
fort is actually based on a CDC study
that shows when children have adverse
childhood experiences like exposure to
drugs and alcohol, it can have a major
impact on their physical and mental
developmental health.
The work these officers are doing, led
by Martinsburg chief of police Maury
Richards, is incredible. I have seen it
firsthand. Whether they are playing
basketball with the kids at the Boys &
Girls Club of the Eastern Panhandle or
spending times in West Virginia in
Berkeley County Schools playing
interactive learning games and helping
students with their work, or simply
lending a hand and a smile whenever
one is needed, they are making such a
difference and letting kids know that
their police department is part of the
solution, and they are there and avail-
able to help.
I saw other prevention efforts under-
way last year when I visited John
Adams Middle School in Charleston. I
went with Chad Napier, who is from
the Appalachian High Intensity Drug
Trafficking Task Force to meet with
students. He was explaining to them
just the proliferation of drugs, the
damage drugs can do, and doing it in a
way that could relate to the middle
schoolers.
So during National Drug Prevention
Week, I want to recognize those who
use their time and talent to help pre-
vent addiction in our communities.
During National Police Week, I want to
thank our police officers again and
their loved ones for their service and
their sacrifice on behalf of our commu-
nities.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
65TH ANNIVERSARY OF BROWN V. BOARD OF
EDUCATION
Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, this
week marks the 65th anniversary of the
Supreme Court’s unanimous decision of
Brown v. Board of Education.
In Brown, the Justices recognized a
profound, moral wrong tearing at the
soul of this country—racial segregation
in our Nation’s schools.
They held fast to the principle in-
scribed above the entrance to the Su-
preme Court, ‘‘Equal Justice Under
Law,’’ and they appealed to a self-evi-
dent truth, but not yet realized by our
Founding documents, that equal means
equal.
Of course, the Supreme Court’s deci-
sion in Brown didn’t stand alone. We
needed civil rights activists like
Thurgood Marshall, who had built to-
ward this moment to carry the torch
forward. We needed a Congress and a
White House that would enshrine pro-
tections for civil rights, voting rights,
and housing rights into law. We needed
courts committed to this principle that
racism and White supremacy could no
longer hide behind the shield of law.
Most of all, we needed the power of
the people fiercely demanding equal-
ity—students like the Little Rock
Nine, who courageously, in the face of
State-sponsored hostility, walked
through the doors of Little Rock Cen-
tral High School to jeers and taunts
and threats; people like JOHN LEWIS,
who marched and bled on the Edmund
Pettus Bridge in Selma; folks like
Goodman, Chaney, and Schwerner, who
lost their lives together in the pursuit
of justice; and leaders like King, who
pointed us to the mountaintop.
Brown v. Board of Education isn’t
confined to the history books. The
fight for equality and civil rights still
continues to this day. Much of this
hard-earned progress, unfortunately,
almost tragically, is being rolled back.
Now, staggeringly, many judicial
nominees for the Trump administra-
tion have refused to say whether they
believe Brown v. Board of Education
was even rightly decided. They can’t
even affirm the most basic and funda-
mental principle of American law.
One judicial nominee is set to receive
a floor vote this week—Wendy Vitter.
She not only refused to say that Brown
was correctly decided but even sug-
gested at the time that it was, perhaps,
the wrong decision.
The nominee for the second highest
job at the Justice Department, Jeffrey
Rosen, refused to say whether Brown
was rightly decided, even though he
would oversee the Solicitor General in
day-to-day operations of our Federal
prosecutors.
The principle underlying Brown is
more than a foundation of our legal
system. It is also the foundation of de-
mocracy. It goes to the heart of one of
the deepest ideals in our Nation—that
we are a Nation where equal means
equal.
The principle underlying Brown is
sacrosanct. It is not something that we
in this era, this day and age, should be
leaving up to question or even debate.
So I would like to take a moment
today to read from the Supreme
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.016 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2804 May 14, 2019
Court’s landmark ruling in Brown v.
Board of Education.
This decision wasn’t written just for
lawyers or students at law school; it
was written for the American people,
making the case for equal justice under
law.
So here we are—Brown v. Board of
Education of Topeka, KS. Chief Justice
Warren delivered the opinion of the
Court, and I quote:
These cases come to us from the States of
Kansas, South Carolina, Virginia, and Dela-
ware. . . . In each of the cases, minors of the
Negro race, through their legal representa-
tives, seek the aid of courts in obtaining ad-
missions to public schools of their commu-
nities on a nonsegregated basis. In each in-
stance, they have been denied admission to
schools attended by white children under
laws requiring or permitting segregation ac-
cording to race. This segregation was alleged
to deprive the plaintiffs of equal protection
of the laws under the Fourteenth Amend-
ment.
In each of the cases other than the Dela-
ware case, a three-judge federal district
court denied relief to the plaintiffs on the so-
called ‘‘separate but equal’’ doctrine an-
nounced by this Court in Plessy v. Ferguson.
. . . The plaintiffs contend that segregated
public schools are not ‘‘equal’’ and cannot be
made ‘‘equal,’’ and hence they are deprived
of the equal protection of the laws. . . .
Today, education is perhaps the most impor-
tant function of state and local govern-
ments. Compulsory school attendance laws
and the great expenditures for education
both demonstrate our recognition of the im-
portance of education toward democratic so-
ciety. It is required in the performance of
our most basic public responsibilities, even
service in the armed forces. It is the very
foundation of good citizenship.
Today it is a principal instrument in awak-
ening the child to cultural values, in pre-
paring him for later professional training,
and in helping him to adjust normally to his
environment. In these days, it is doubtful
that any child may reasonably be expected
to succeed in life if he is denied the oppor-
tunity of an education. Such an opportunity,
where the state has undertaken to provide it,
is a right which must be made available to
all on equal terms.
We come then to the question presented:
Does segregation of children in public
schools solely on the basis of race, even
though the physical facilities and other
‘‘tangible’’ factors may be equal, deprive the
children of the minority group of equal edu-
cational opportunities? We believe that it
does. . . . To separate them from others of
similar age and qualifications solely because
of their race generates a feeling of inferi-
ority as to their status in the community
that may affect their hearts and minds in a
way unlikely ever to be undone. . . . We con-
clude that, in the field of public education,
the doctrine of ‘‘separate but equal’’ has no
place. Separate educational facilities are in-
herently unequal. Therefore, we hold that
the plaintiffs and others similarly situated
for whom the actions have been brought are,
by reason of the segregation complained of,
deprived of the equal protection of the laws
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
. . . It is so ordered.
It has been 65 years since the nine
Justices of the Supreme Court unani-
mously gave those words the force of
law. Today, for any nominee who would
enforce or interpret our laws, it should
be far beyond debate that Brown was
right—the separate-but-equal doctrine
has no place in American society.
Sixty-five years on, it is our duty as
Americans to continue to fight for
equality and justice in America. We
owe this not just to ourselves but we
who benefit from the blessings of this
democracy, sewn by the hands of our
ancestors, we who partake of that fruit
from their labors. We must recognize
those heroes in the generations who ad-
vocated, marched, and insisted that
this Nation make good on the promise
of equal justice under the law.
I stand here upon the shoulders of
those who came before. We as a nation
have progressed in every generation to-
ward more inclusion, more equality.
Our courts and our activists and our
citizens who came before have made
this a more perfect union. We still have
work to do, but we cannot allow our-
selves to see undone the progress of our
ancestors. We cannot allow ourselves
to call into question those sacrosanct
ideas enshrined in our law. This is not
the time to go back. We must continue
to forge a pathway forward.
Sixty-five years ago, our courts acted
in the name of justice and equality. It
is our duty and obligation to preserve
that progress.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I
rise to express my objections in opposi-
tion to the Trump administration’s
constant attacks on women’s
healthcare, such as taking action to
undermine the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act and finalizing ad-
ministrative rules that allow discrimi-
natory practices to family planning
providers and women seeking reproduc-
tive healthcare.
Women and their healthcare should
not be under constant threat. As a
country, the United States has made
great efforts to promote equal rights
for both women and men. Yet in the
21st century, the Trump administra-
tion and congressional Republicans
continue to push the policies that set
this country back.
The Trump administration’s attacks
on women’s healthcare are unconscion-
able. Trump has taken several adminis-
trative actions that allow employers,
insurance companies, and hospitals to
refuse healthcare coverage and services
based on their personal beliefs. For ex-
ample, the recently finalized refusal
rule allows virtually any individual or
entity involved in a patient’s care—
from a hospital’s board of directors to
a receptionist who schedules proce-
dures—to put their personal beliefs
ahead of a patient’s healthcare needs.
Letting hospitals, pharmacies, and a
range of people involved in healthcare
deny services means that women will
lose critical care. Rape survivors could
be denied emergency birth control.
Same-sex couples could be denied fer-
tility treatment. Women with an unin-
tended pregnancy could be denied in-
formation and counseling on their op-
tions. The rule represents a radical de-
parture from HHS’s mission and long
history of combating discrimination,
protecting patients’ access to care, and
eliminating health disparities. It is
outrageous that President Trump con-
tinually implements policies that dis-
criminate against women in
healthcare. We cannot allow women to
be treated this way.
One of the most egregious acts of this
administration is gutting title X, the
Nation’s only federal grant program
dedicated solely to providing individ-
uals with comprehensive family plan-
ning and related preventive health
services. The Trump administration fi-
nalized a rule that would bar providers
from giving their patients complete
medical information and block care at
popular family planning providers like
Planned Parenthood, even though
Planned Parenthood serves approxi-
mately 40 percent of title X patients.
Last year, title X funding allowed
nearly 4,000 health centers to provide
over 4 million low-income women and
men basic primary and preventive
healthcare services such as pap tests,
cervical cancer screenings, contracep-
tion, breast exams, and HIV testing. In
Maryland there are 55 title X-funded
health centers spanning my State.
These include federally qualified
health centers, local health depart-
ments, Planned Parenthood clinics,
and school-based health centers. In fis-
cal year 2015, Maryland received over
$3.8 million in title X funding and pro-
vided health services to over 64,000 pa-
tients. These are low-income, under-
insured, and uninsured individuals who
would otherwise lack access to
healthcare.
In addition to attacks on women’s
healthcare, the Trump administration
has proposed a title IX rule that weak-
ens the existing protections for victims
of campus sexual assault and allows
universities to roll back their respon-
sibilities to ensure students receive an
education free of discrimination. Re-
cently I was on the campus of the Uni-
versity of Maryland, College Park,
speaking to students from College Park
and Bowie State University regarding
issues related to higher education. At
College Park students are guaranteed
housing on campus only for their first
2 years of education. Under Secretary
DeVos’s title IX rule, the university
would no longer be responsible for in-
vestigating any claims of sexual as-
sault for incidents that take place off
campus, even though it may involve
two students. In fact, 9 out of 10 sexual
assaults do take place off college cam-
puses.
This rule and the administration’s
failure even to listen to the concerns of
sexual assault survivors on campus
show a callous disregard for victims.
We should be working to ensure protec-
tion for victims, not minimizing their
experiences. In order to do just that, I
have fought for funding for the Depart-
ment of Education’s Office of Civil
Rights to have adequate staffing to in-
vestigate these claims and other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.017 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2805
May 14, 2019
claims of violations of a student’s civil
rights. I have also cosponsored bipar-
tisan legislation, such as the Campus
Accountability and Safety Act, which
seeks to find a commonsense solution
to this difficult issue that holds col-
leges accountable without trauma-
tizing victims when reporting an as-
sault.
We should also take up and pass the
reauthorization for the Violence
Against Women’s Act. Last month, the
House passed this critical legislation,
which would reauthorize funding of
these programs and authorize new pro-
grams; amend and add definitions used
in the VAWA programs; amend Federal
criminal law relating to firearms, cus-
todial rape, and stalking; and expand
Tribal jurisdiction over certain crimes
committed on Tribal lands.
The American people deserve better
from their elected officials. I am com-
mitted to opposing President Trump’s
reckless and outrageous actions that
would harm women and their families
in Maryland and across our Nation.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. JONES. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Mr. JONES per-
taining to the introduction of S. 1453
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. JONES. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Illinois.
IRAN
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, 1 year
ago, President Trump recklessly with-
drew from the historic nuclear agree-
ment reached between the United
States, the United Kingdom, France,
Germany, Russia, China, and Iran to
end Iran’s nuclear weapons program.
President Trump decided to withdraw
from that agreement. It is not clear to
me why President Trump further un-
dermined our country’s international
reputation by backing out of this
agreement reached by key global pow-
ers.
To think that we had a consensus, in-
cluding Russia and China and our tra-
ditional allies of the United Kingdom,
France, and Germany, and the Presi-
dent decided to walk away from it is
beyond me.
As with so many issues, he seems mo-
tivated to reverse anything ever done
by President Barack Obama, regardless
of the facts or by his naive belief that
he can always strike a better deal.
Sadly, I have yet to see any evidence
of that dealmaking acumen. In fact, I
have only seen alienated allies, give-
aways to dictators, and a loss of Amer-
ican standing and influence in the
world.
It is important to step back and re-
call where we were when President
Obama took office. Our intelligence
community assessed that until 2003,
Iran was working toward a nuclear
bomb. Among the many calamities of
the disastrous war in Iraq was that it
further empowered Iran. The country’s
hard-liners moved forward at great
speed, building suspicious nuclear in-
frastructure. These efforts produced
large and unsettling quantities of high-
ly enriched uranium that could have
been used for a nuclear weapon.
Such a weapon in the hands of the
Iranian regime would have been an un-
acceptable risk to the region, to Israel,
and to the world.
This is the mess that President
Obama inherited when he came to of-
fice. He pledged that Iran would not be
able to obtain a nuclear bomb on his
watch, and he kept his word. You see,
just as President Kennedy negotiated
with the Soviets when they were
threatening possible nuclear war with
missiles in Cuba, just as President
Nixon began to establish ties with
China while it was supplying weapons
to the North Koreans, who were fight-
ing Americans, and just as President
Reagan negotiated with the Soviet
Union, even though it was occupying
Eastern Europe and fomenting violent
revolution, there are times when such
agreements serve our national interest
and make the world a safer place.
Similarly, President Obama nego-
tiated a comprehensive deal that pre-
vented Iran from being able to build a
nuclear bomb and held it to stringent,
invasive inspections to ensure that
Iran kept its pledge.
Notably, this historic agreement was
accomplished without drawing the
United States into war in the Middle
East. Let me be clear. The nuclear
agreement was never about all the
other genuinely troubling Iranian be-
havior in the world, but, instead, it was
designed to ensure that Iran didn’t pur-
sue activities with a nuclear weapon.
That is what it did.
The International Atomic Energy
Agency continues to verify that on the
ground in Iran the agreement still
holds. For the last 4 years, this Agency
has performed an average of four sur-
prise inspections every month—8,000
inspection hours—and they have found
no evidence of noncompliance on the
Iranian side.
Now, today, President Trump is pur-
suing an incomprehensible policy of re-
gime change, trying to flatter and
meet with Iranian President Ruhani to
negotiate a supposedly better deal and
threatening Iran militarily and tight-
ening sanctions. The end result of this
dangerous incoherence is that our al-
lies are united against us, sadly to say,
and Iran may restart nuclear activities
which had been frozen for the last 4
years because of the agreement that
President Trump walked away from.
So the only thing our President’s
policies have done is to make a poten-
tial restart of Iran’s nuclear program a
reality. I fear that President Trump,
with the goading of many around him,
is trying to foment a pretext for an-
other war in the Middle East—the last
thing America or the world needs.
So let me be clear on something that
I have said regardless of who is in the
White House, a Republican President
or a Democratic President. Article I,
section 8 of our Constitution is clear
that Congress has the authority—the
only authority—to declare war. This
President—any President—must first
have the approval of the people’s rep-
resentatives in Congress before asking
our sons and daughters to enter into
battle.
It is not too late for an off-ramp.
I am concerned that this word isn’t
even close to the way I actually feel
with the suggestion that Acting De-
fense Secretary Shanahan was called
on to create a plan using 130,000 Amer-
ican military to be poised in some ef-
fort to intimidate Iran. One hundred
thirty thousand—that is the number of
troops we sent into Iraq.
I was happy to be one of the 23 mem-
bers of the Senate who voted against
that terrible decision, but we didn’t
prevail. We went into Iraq and thou-
sands of Americans died. It can happen
on any President’s watch. This Presi-
dent is setting the stage for it to hap-
pen in Iran.
Sadly, the American people have not
been dealt into the conversation. They
have one thing to turn to, though, our
Constitution, which says that, ulti-
mately, the American people will make
the decision when it comes to war
through their elected representatives.
This administration should return to
the only reasonable, smart, and effec-
tive option on the table for countering
Iran: Rejoin the nuclear agreement im-
mediately, repair our strained relation-
ship with our own allies, and use that
unity to push back on Iran’s desta-
bilizing actions across the region which
exist outside the nuclear realm. Any-
thing else is reckless.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from Texas.
ONE-YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF SANTA FE HIGH
SCHOOL SHOOTING
Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I rise today
to give voice to a town in Texas. It is
a small town of about 14,000 people. In
that town there is a high school, a
school of about 1,500 students. One year
ago, on May 18, a deeply disturbed and
deranged student committed an un-
speakable act of evil which shook
Santa Fe, shook Texas, and shook the
entire country. It left our Nation weep-
ing.
Just before 8 in the morning, the
shooter began firing weapons into
classrooms and through doors where
his fellow students were taking shelter.
Within minutes, the attacker sense-
lessly murdered 8 students and 2 teach-
ers. Their names are the following:
Jared Conard Black, Christian Riley
Garcia, Shana Fisher, Aaron Kyle
McLeod, Glenda Ann Perkins,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.021 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2806 May 14, 2019
Angelique Ramirez, Sabika Sheikh,
Christopher Stone, Cynthia Tisdale,
and Kimberly Vaughan.
I would like us to pause for a mo-
ment of silence as we remember these
brave souls.
Their names will live on. Their kill-
er’s name will not. His name is never
worth mentioning again.
Thirteen others were also brutally
wounded, including three substitute
teachers. Flo Rice, one of the sub-
stitute teachers at the high school that
day, was shot five times. I have gotten
to know Flo and her husband Scott
well in the weeks and months since the
shooting.
But that day was not merely a day of
great tragedy. It was also a day of in-
credible bravery. Santa Fe police offi-
cers did their duty and swiftly engaged
the shooter. One of those police offi-
cers, John Barnes, was critically
wounded in the process. They shot
back, and, ultimately, they took the
coward into custody.
Santa Fe students also proved them-
selves to be heroes. One of them, Riley
Garcia, made the ultimate sacrifice. He
held a door shut to give other students
time to escape, and he was killed in the
process. Other students tended to the
wounded and to each other.
In the wake of the shooting, Texans
grieved with the families and friends of
those we lost. We heard stories of ter-
ror and stories of hope.
I was at my home in Houston that
morning. Santa Fe High School is
about 45 minutes away from my house.
When I got the call as to what was hap-
pening, I jumped into a truck and head-
ed down there. I spent the entire day
with families who had lost their chil-
dren, with first responders, with teach-
ers, with school leaders, with a commu-
nity that was grieving mightily. But in
Santa Fe, I also saw a boundless spirit
and hope and unity.
I remember that afternoon, traveling
to the hospital and visiting with a
number of the students who had been
shot and wounded that day. I remem-
ber meeting Clayton, a young man who
had been shot just that morning. He
had pins in his arm from being shot
twice. Clayton described how he
jumped over the fence, even after hav-
ing been shot, and his friends helped to
carry him to safety. This young man
described how he is a bull rider and a
pole vaulter. I asked him if he is a lefty
or righty. He said he is a lefty, and
that was the arm that was wounded.
But he said with a smile: ‘‘You know,
now I gotta learn to ride a bull with
my right arm.’’ That is the toughness
and the spirit of these students and
their entire community.
All across Texas and all across the
country, millions of Americans lifted
those children and lifted those families
up in prayer. You know, it has become
politically fashionable now to deride
thoughts and prayers. To suggest that
thoughts and prayers are not appro-
priate, I will say this: We should al-
ways lift up in prayer those who are
victimized by violence, by brutality, by
terrorism, by murder. I believe in the
power of prayer, and I will tell you
that the community of Santa Fe leaned
on the power of prayer in the wake of
that tragedy.
Now, thoughts and prayers are not
themselves a substitute for action. In
the days and the weeks that followed, I
met with mothers and fathers and
teachers and students. I hosted Santa
Fe students here in the Senate Dining
Room. We talked with law enforcement
and with first responders. I sat down
with the President, and he traveled
down to meet with the Santa Fe fami-
lies. I participated in a roundtable with
Governor Abbott, families from Santa
Fe and other communities victimized
by violence, and officials at the Fed-
eral, State, and local levels. We dis-
cussed how we could do a better job of
protecting our schools and protecting
our children. We have lost too many
kids to homicidal action, and it has to
stop.
We have to do much more to keep
guns out of the hands of violent crimi-
nals and to better treat the mentally
ill—all while preserving and protecting
our constitutional rights.
There was a universal agreement in
the wake of Santa Fe that, as a State
and as a Nation, we had to see justice
done and to take every step to try to
ensure that such an attack never oc-
curs again.
Soon after, I was gratified to hear
that the Department of Education an-
nounced $1 million in Federal funds for
the Santa Fe Independent School Dis-
trict through Project School Emer-
gency Response to Violence, or Project
SERV. It is a crucial first step in Fed-
eral funding to help the Santa Fe
school community to recover and pro-
tect all its students, but the story
doesn’t end there.
In addition to a State prosecution,
most of us assumed there would be a
Federal case against the Santa Fe
shooter, as well, because his massive
assault was on students and teachers in
a public school, and, crucially, because
authorities found explosive devices on
the school grounds and off campus, in-
cluding pipe bombs and a Molotov
cocktail. To any reasonable observer,
this would open the case to Federal ex-
plosives and terrorism charges.
All of us were committed to seeing
the attacker prosecuted to the fullest
extent of the law. Early press reports,
however, indicated that Federal au-
thorities were not going to proceed
with the Federal case. Those press re-
ports dismayed me—dismayed many—
in particular because the shooter was
under 18 at the time of the massacre,
which means it is likely that the max-
imum State sentence he would receive
is 40 years, which means that, if only
State charges were brought, the shoot-
er would be potentially eligible for re-
lease at 57 years old. Releasing this
mass murderer into society would not
be just, and it would not be right.
Thankfully, Attorney General Barr
agreed, and it has been publicly re-
ported now that Federal charges have
come forward to ensure that this
attacker is brought to justice and faces
the full consequences for the horrific
acts of that morning.
(The remarks of Senator CRUZ per-
taining to the submission of S. 1442 are
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
Mr. CRUZ. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO MARILYN SKOGLUND
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
would like to take a moment to pay
tribute to a remarkable and unique
person, Vermont Supreme Court Jus-
tice Marilyn Skoglund, who will soon
be retiring after serving 25 years with
the Vermont judiciary.
Justice Skoglund is what we all want
to see in a jurist and public servant.
She is dedicated, personable, and high-
ly committed to the rule of law, but
her path to the Vermont Supreme
Court was anything but typical. As a
single mother working hard to get by
in the 1970s, law school was not an op-
tion. Instead, she took advantage of
Vermont’s ‘‘Reading the Law’’ ap-
proach that allowed her to study while
serving as an apprentice of sorts with
the Vermont Attorney General’s office.
After being admitted to the Vermont
Bar, she would go on to serve as chief
of the civil law and public protection
divisions in the AG’s office before
being appointed to the bench in 1994 by
then-Governor Howard Dean. She
would be elevated to the supreme court
just 3 years later. At the time, she was
only the second woman to serve on
Vermont’s highest court. Today,
women make up the majority of its five
justices.
I have had the pleasure of knowing
Justice Skoglund during her many
years of living and working in my
hometown of Montpelier. Her personal
story was so compelling that she was
my first choice in 2008 to keynote
Vermont’s Women’s Economic Oppor-
tunity Conference, an annual event I
have now hosted for 23 years.
But no tribute to Justice Skoglund
would be complete if it did not mention
her keen sense of humor. Perhaps it is
this trait that has so deftly served her
these many years, for as serious as the
supreme court must be in delivering
justice, Marilyn Skoglund has dem-
onstrated time and again the benefit of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.035 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2807
May 14, 2019
laughter in our lives. She finds the
time to appreciate what some might
only see as mundane; she cherishes her
friendships, and she mentors those who
will succeed us. By her own account,
she has led a full life.
I ask unanimous consent that these
excerpts of the May 1 Seven Days pro-
file of Justice Skoglund be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From Seven Days, May 1, 2019]
JUSTICE SERVED: MARILYN SKOGLUND TO
RETIRE FROM THE VERMONT SUPREME COURT
(By Paul Heintz)
On her way out the door of her Montpelier
home last Friday, Vermont Supreme Court
Justice Marilyn Skoglund rolled up her right
sleeve to show off her latest tattoo.
‘‘I waited until my youngest daughter’s
wedding,’’ the justice said with a sneaky
smile. ‘‘I knew she wouldn’t want me to get
it.’’
Written in a simple black cursive on the
inside of her arm were the words, ‘‘Jag är
mätt,’’ a Swedish expression often uttered in
her childhood home at the conclusion of a
family meal. ‘‘I am satisfied,’’ she trans-
lated. ‘‘I am full.’’
The 72-year-old jurist reflected for a mo-
ment—perhaps on a life rich in family,
friends, dogs and the law—and declared, ‘‘I
am satisfied! I mean, what else can you say?
I’m very lucky. I am satisfied.’’
This week, Skoglund plans to inform Gov.
Phil Scott that, after 22 years on the state’s
highest court, she intends to resign effective
September 1.
Skoglund’s retirement brings to a close
one of the most remarkable and least likely
careers in the Vermont judiciary—that of a
struggling single mother who passed the bar
without a day of law school and worked her
way up to become the second female justice
in state history.
Now, the famously irreverent attorney is
looking for a new challenge, be it the begin-
ning Spanish class she plans to take this fall
or the online bartender course she’s long
contemplated. ‘‘I just need to take a chance
and see what else I can do before I drop
dead,’’ she said, letting loose her trademark
cackle.
Skoglund’s sense of humor has long served
as the ‘‘collegiality glue’’ on the court of
five, according to retired justice John
Dooley. In her decades on the bench, she has
made it her mission to draw colleagues and
staff members out of their casework and into
the world—through court poetry slams, end-
of-term parties and art openings at the Su-
preme Court gallery she founded and over-
sees.
‘‘I would describe her as a unifier,’’ said
Victoria Westgate, a Burlington attorney
who clerked with her from 2013 to 2014. The
justice has also served as a role model to a
generation of young women in the law,
Westgate said.
Though Skoglund may be best known for
her larger-than-life personality, colleagues
describe her as a deeply serious jurist with
an unmatched work ethic.
‘‘Of all the justices I’ve worked with, I
think she probably put . . . more effort into
preparing and understanding a case than
any,’’ said Dooley, who served alongside
Skoglund for two of his three decades on the
court . . .
Born in Chicago and raised in St. Louis,
Skoglund had what she describes as an ‘‘idyl-
lic childhood,’’ replete with a picket fence
and parents who were ‘‘the Swedish equiva-
lent of Ozzie and Harriet.’’ Her father man-
aged a steel treatment plant and her mother,
a former hairdresser and math tutor, raised
the future justice and her sister.
Skoglund spent seven years meandering
her way through Southern Illinois Univer-
sity—a fine arts major and ‘‘hippie folk sing-
er’’ who worked, for a time, as a graphic de-
signer for the inventor and futurist
Buckminster Fuller. She finally earned her
diploma after getting married and becoming
pregnant with her first daughter.
The young family moved to Vermont in
1973 so that Skoglund’s husband could take a
job teaching painting and printmaking at
Goddard College. They rented a small,
uninsulated cottage on a 500-acre dairy farm
in Plainfield. Skoglund learned to milk
cows, taught photography and worked as an
editor at Goddard. The marriage didn’t last,
though, and soon she was raising her daugh-
ter on her own.
Skoglund found herself relying upon the
generosity of Walter Smith, the 68-year-old
dairy farmer who served as her landlord and
her ‘‘very own personal version of welfare.’’
He provided firewood when she needed it and
let her dip raw milk from the bulk tank.
When she and her daughter were low on food,
they would join Smith for cans of chicken
noodle soup and mayonnaise sandwiches.
‘‘He saw me through it,’’ she said.
Skoglund’s experience with poverty later
informed her work on the bench and, she
said, gave her ‘‘a very good understanding of
desperation and frustration and what it
causes people to do.’’ ‘‘I think I’m the only
justice that’s ever been poor,’’ she said.
After completing a six-month paralegal
class, Skoglund landed a clerkship in the
Vermont Attorney General’s Office and
began reading for the law—an alternative
route to the bar that enables aspiring attor-
neys to bypass law school through inde-
pendent study. It was a solitary, self-moti-
vated education, but I am disciplined,’’ she
wrote in a recent essay about her unconven-
tional path. ‘‘In the central office of the at-
torney general, I was the only student with
about 50 ‘teachers.’ ’’
Skoglund spent four years clerking for
Louis Peck, then the chief assistant attor-
ney general and later a Supreme Court jus-
tice. She would run lines for Peck, an ama-
teur actor, and he would school her in the
law. Skoglund credits him with informing
her ‘‘legally conservative’’ approach. ‘‘I
don’t take liberties with the language, and I
don’t read myself into it,’’ she said. ‘‘It’s not
about you, Marilyn.’’
Skoglund spent 17 years in the Attorney
General’s Office, eventually serving as chief
of its civil law division and then its public
protection division. She was appointed to the
Superior Court in 1994 and to the Supreme
Court in 1997.
‘‘It’s like candy,’’ Skoglund said of her cur-
rent gig. ‘‘I have never been bored.’’
The pace of the job wouldn’t allow it. The
supremes hear an average of 120 full cases a
year, plus many more appeals on the so-
called ‘‘rocket docket.’’ They’re also con-
sumed by the myriad unseen administrative
duties of the judicial branch, such as
divvying up its ‘‘shoestring’’ budget and
managing the lower courts.
‘‘This all takes hours when all I want to be
doing is reading cases,’’ Skoglund said. . . .
According to Skoglund, her acid prose oc-
casionally gives her law clerks ‘‘panic at-
tacks.’’ But members of her tight fraternity
of former clerks praise her ‘‘dedication to
raising a new generation’’ of lawyers, as
Todd Daloz put it.
‘‘She has a real energy and a real humor
and a real joy of life,’’ said Daloz, who
clerked for Skoglund from 2009 to 2011 and
now serves as associate general counsel for
the Vermont State Colleges System.
‘‘When I hire [clerks], I explain that I’m
hiring my best friend for the next year,’’
Skoglund said. ‘‘I have to be able to come in
and vent and bitch and moan and get solace
from them.’’. . .
For the past 35 years, Skoglund has lived
in a tall, brown- and green-shingled house
perched above the Statehouse on the south-
ern boundary of Hubbard Park. The place is
crammed with books and artwork and fea-
tures a ‘‘wall of dogs’’ consisting of canine
paintings she’s collected. ‘‘It’s kind of a
magical place for me,’’ she said of her home,
where she does much of her off-the bench
legal work. ‘‘It’s just a sanctuary.’’
Skoglund’s two grown daughters, an obste-
trician and a neuropsychologist, have long
since moved out. Her current roommates in-
clude a 4-year-old goldendoodle named John-
ny and, during Vermont’s four-month legis-
lative session, Senate Majority Leader Becca
Balint (D-Windham). ‘‘I always say I have
the best roommate,’’ Balint said. ‘‘Some-
times it’s seven o’clock in the morning and
we’re both crying because we’re laughing so
hard.’’ . . .
Last Friday morning, after showing off her
tattoo, Skoglund wrapped an unused dog
leash around her waist and commenced her
three-block commute down the hill and past
the Statehouse to the Supreme Court. John-
ny pranced along in front of her, relishing
his freedom.
Skoglund gushed about her daughters and
9-year-old granddaughter, with whom she
had spent the previous weekend.
‘‘They’re not thrilled with this tattoo—at
least, the younger one isn’t,’’ she conceded.
‘‘But that’s the way it goes, ladies. Mom’s
gotta do what Mom’s gotta do.’’
Skoglund entered the court through a side
door and showed off one of her most concrete
contributions to the institution: an art gal-
lery in the lobby of the building that she’s
curated for the past 20 years.
‘‘When I first got here, it was the hall of
dead justices,’’ she said, referring to the oil
paintings of her predecessors, now relegated
to the stairways and upper floors. In their
place was a series of mixed-media pieces by
the artist Janet Van Fleet consisting of red
buttons and plastic animals. Johnny led
Skoglund up to her third-floor office, which
features a smiling boar’s head mounted to a
wall. ‘‘Behind you is Emmet, my amanu-
ensis,’’ she said, gesturing at the hairy crea-
ture. ‘‘A lot of those wild boar things look
scary and vicious. He’s just sweet.’’
Skoglund took a seat behind her cluttered
desk and said, with a resigned tone of voice,
‘‘I’ve been here for 22 years. It’s time to go.’’
Asked how she hoped people would remem-
ber her, Skoglund answered without hesi-
tation. ‘‘I worked hard,’’ she said. ‘‘I took
my position very seriously. I never cut cor-
ners. I understood the responsibility. That’s
what I hope.’’
f
TRIBUTE TO E. THOMAS SULLIVAN
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President,
today, I am honored to recognize the
president of the University of Vermont,
UVM, Thomas Sullivan, who is step-
ping down this June after 7 years as a
remarkable leader for the university.
Tom’s tenure as the 26th president of
the University of Vermont came during
a tumultuous time in higher education.
Despite demographic declines and re-
duced public investments in higher
education, Tom made quality, afford-
able education and investment in
scholarship his top priorities.
Tom expanded UVM’s course offer-
ings, oversaw 20 building projects, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.028 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2808 May 14, 2019
helped increase the value of UVM’s en-
dowment by 80 percent. When ap-
pointed in 2012, Tom was given the re-
sponsibility of heading UVM’s Move
Mountains fundraising campaign with
the goal of raising $500 million by 2020.
Because of Tom’s personality, passion,
and, at times, persuasion, the Univer-
sity hit its fundraising goal a year
ahead of schedule, a very impressive
accomplishment considering the eco-
nomic hardship that has defined the
last decade. The success of this cam-
paign increased scholarships for stu-
dents, invested in top-tier faculty, and
made capital investments to improve
the student experience.
While the university has continued
to evolve, under Tom’s leadership,
UVM has managed to stay true to its
founding as a Land Grant university.
Tom has worked tirelessly during his
tenure to expand UVM’s science, tech-
nology, engineering, and mathe-
matics—STEM—offerings including the
4-year construction of a $104 million
STEM Complex. Tom shares the belief
that income should not be a barrier to
a good education. Because of his dedi-
cation to the education of all students,
Tom was instrumental in developing
UVM’s Catamount Commitment, which
promises Pell Grant-eligible
Vermonters that the reminder of their
tuition will be covered, either through
grants or waived by the university en-
tirely.
Tom’s tenure at UVM tops off a long
and distinguished professional experi-
ence in the field of academia. Tom
taught at the law schools of the Uni-
versity of Missouri, Washington Uni-
versity in St. Louis, MO, and was ap-
pointed to be a dean and professor of
law at the University of Arizona Col-
lege of Law. Following his time at the
University of Arizona, he began his 17-
year tenure at the University of Min-
nesota, where he eventually was ap-
pointed to become its senior vice presi-
dent and provost.
Calling Tom a prolific academic and
legal scholar would be an understate-
ment. He has written 11 books and over
50 articles primarily in the field of
antitrust litigation. In addition to his
writings, in 2009, the Senate Judiciary
Committee had the honor and privilege
of obtaining Tom’s advice and con-
sultation on the confirmation of then-
Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the U.S. Su-
preme Court. The lasting impact of
Tom’s work in the field of legal studies
is no small feat and will be felt for gen-
erations to come.
It is rare to find Tom’s unparalleled
selfless dedication to academia and the
needs of students across the country as
well as throughout the world. Over the
course of his 7-year tenure, Marcelle
and I have had the pleasure on multiple
occasions to enjoy the company of Tom
and his wife Leslie. They are wonderful
people who care about nothing more
than giving the next generation the op-
portunity to succeed through aca-
demics. Tom’s charming and caring
presence will surely be missed on cam-
pus, but we look forward to having
Tom and Leslie as Vermont residents
for some time. Marcelle and I thank
Tom for his service, and we wish him
and Leslie all the best in the next
chapter of his distinguished career.
f
TRIBUTE TO ALFRED BROWNELL
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
want to speak briefly about the coura-
geous environmental activism of Alfred
Brownell, a native of Liberia now liv-
ing in exile in Boston.
Mr. Brownell is an environmental
and human rights lawyer and the exec-
utive director of Green Advocates, a
Liberian organization that he founded
to promote environmental justice for
indigenous communities. Like so many
environmental activists around the
world, he has been repeatedly harassed
and threatened. He was forced to flee
his country with his family due to fear
of reprisal for his outspoken and tire-
less work to protect the traditional
land rights of his countrymen and
against the sale, without their consent,
of vast areas of forest to Golden
Veroleum Liberia, a Southeast Asian-
based company that produces palm oil.
Now a visiting scholar and teacher at
Northeastern University, Mr. Brownell
continues to conduct research and
classes on the issues that have come to
define his life.
Mr. Brownell was recently recognized
by the international community for his
perseverance in protecting Liberia’s
forests on which thousands of Liberian
families and many endangered species
of wildlife depend. He was honored in
San Francisco and Washington as one
of six recipients of the prestigious 2019
Goldman Environmental Prize. It is
important that we not only pay tribute
to Mr. Brownell for his extraordinary
contribution to his people and his
country but that we be aware that de-
spite this international recognition, he
continues to fear returning to his na-
tive country.
I have long supported U.S. assistance
to help Liberia overcome years of a
brutal armed conflict, and I will con-
tinue to do so. But I regret that the Li-
berian Government has sided with the
palm oil company and against their
own local farmers. Unable to intimi-
date Mr. Brownell, government offi-
cials tried to silence him by offering
him government jobs in return for his
cooperation. When that failed, they put
his house and his family under police
surveillance, publicly accused him of
sedition and economic sabotage, ac-
cused his organization and other envi-
ronmental rights organizations of un-
dermining Liberia’s sovereignty, and
lied about him to incite an assassina-
tion attempt. Since December 2016, he
has been living in exile, with no indica-
tion from Liberian officials that their
hostility toward him and his cause has
diminished.
Government intimidation of civil so-
ciety activists and scholars is antithet-
ical to open and accountable demo-
cratic societies. It is what we have
come to expect of shortsighted or, even
worse, corrupt officials and the out-
sized influence of corporate interests.
If the Liberian Government is serious
about attracting foreign investment
for job creation and sustainable eco-
nomic development—goals we all sup-
port—it should recognize that Mr.
Brownell is a patriot of whom all Libe-
rians can be proud. Liberian officials
should encourage him and his family to
return to Liberia, and point to him as
an example of how one courageous and
determined individual can make a posi-
tive difference for the country.
Rather than benefiting a foreign cor-
poration producing a monocrop for ex-
port, the Liberian Government should
be protecting its biologically diverse
forests and wildlife, not destroying
them and polluting the rivers on which
local inhabitants depend and displacing
people who have lived there for genera-
tions.
Alfred Brownell should be a source of
pride and an inspiration for all Libe-
rians. I hope the international recogni-
tion he has received will convince the
Liberian Government that it is people
like him who deserve our admiration
and our thanks.
f
HONORING SERGEANT SEAN M.
GANNON AND SERGEANT MI-
CHAEL C. CHESNA AND PATROL-
MAN LEON F. MOODY
Ms. WARREN. Madam President, this
week the country will observe National
Police Week, a week in honor of the
courageous law enforcement officers
who paid the ultimate sacrifice in serv-
ice to their communities.
As we honor the service of our brave
men and women in the law enforce-
ment community, I would like to take
the opportunity to honor the life and
memory of three law enforcement offi-
cers from the Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts who paid the ultimate sac-
rifice in service to their communities:
Sean M. Gannon, Michael C. Chesna,
and Leon F. Moody.
Sergeant Sean Gannon, of New Bed-
ford, was killed in the line of duty on
April 12, 2018. He was a lifelong public
servant, first serving as a public safety
officer and later becoming a police offi-
cer with the Yarmouth Police Depart-
ment, where he served for 8 years.
When he wasn’t on duty, Sergeant Gan-
non enjoyed volunteering with Big
Brothers Big Sisters, spending time
outdoors, traveling, and devoting time
to family and friends.
Sergeant Gannon, who lost his life at
the age of 32, was the beloved son of
Denise Morency Gannon and Patrick
Gannon and a devoted husband to his
wife Dara.
Sergeant Michael Chesna, who was
killed in the line of duty on July 15,
2018, dedicated his life to his country,
his community, and his family. A na-
tive of Hanover, MA, Sergeant Chesna
enlisted in the U.S. Army following the
September 11 attacks, serving two
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.006 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2809
May 14, 2019
tours of duty with the 187 10th Moun-
tain Division, where he was awarded
the Purple Heart. Following his service
in the Army, Sergeant Chesna became
a police officer with the city of Wey-
mouth, where he served until his un-
timely death at the age of 42.
Sergeant Chesna was a loving hus-
band to his wife Cindy and father to his
children Olivia and Jack. He was an
avid Boston sports fan who enjoyed
playing basketball, collecting sports
memorabilia, and spending time with
family and friends.
Patrolman Leon Moody of the
Worcester Police Department died of
an illness he sustained in the line of
duty in 1932. He served the Worcester
P.D. bravely for 15 years, before pass-
ing away at the age of 44.
Sergeants Gannon and Chesna and
Patrolman Moody are among 371 law
enforcement officers who died while
protecting their communities and
whose names were engraved this week
on the walls of the National Law En-
forcement Officers Memorial here in
Washington, DC.
This week and every day, we honor
their service and their sacrifice. Most
importantly, we honor the lives they
lived and legacies they leave behind.
May their memories continue to chal-
lenge and inspire us.
f
ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that a copy of
my opening statement at the Senate
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions Committee be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS
Mr. ALEXANDER. Reid Blackwelder is a
family physician with three clinics in the
Tri-Cities area of East Tennessee.
A few years ago, he talked to the New York
Times about the electric health records that
were supposed to make his life easier, say-
ing, ‘‘We have electronic records at our clin-
ic, but the hospital, which I can see from my
window, has a separate system from a dif-
ferent vendor. The two don’t communicate.
When I admit patients to the hospital, I have
to print out my notes and send a copy to the
hospital so they can be incorporated into the
hospital’s electronic records.’’
Dr. Blackwelder could pay for his patients’
hospital records to be electronically sent
from his system to the hospital’s system—
but it would cost him $26,400 every month—
or $316,800 a year. For Dr. Blackwelder, and
so many other doctors, record keeping is now
more expensive and burdensome.
In 1991, the National Academy of Medicine
released a report urging the ‘‘prompt devel-
opment and implementation’’ of what were
then called computer-based patient records.
The report said these systems, ‘‘have a
unique potential to improve the care of both
individual patients and . . . to reduce waste
through continuous quality improvement.’’
Electronic health records got a boost in 2009
when the federal government began the
Meaningful Use program, spending over $36
billion in grants to incentivize doctors and
hospitals to use these systems.
As was the prediction in the 1991 report,
the hope was electronic records would im-
prove patient care and reduce unnecessary
health care spending. This is important be-
cause, at a hearing last summer, Dr. Brent
James, from the National Academies, testi-
fied that up to 50 percent of what we spend
on health care is unnecessary.
There is a bipartisan focus both in Con-
gress and in the Administration on reducing
health care costs. One way to reduce what we
spend on administrative tasks and unneces-
sary care is by having electronic health
records that talk to one another—we call
that interoperability.
But in 2015—six years after the Meaningful
Use program started—as this Committee
worked on the 21st Century Cures Act, we re-
alized that, in many cases, electronic health
records added to administrative burden and
increased unnecessary health care spending.
A major reason for that is that the records
are not interoperable. One barrier to inter-
operability is information blocking—which
is when some obstacle is in the way of a pa-
tient’s information being sent from one doc-
tor to another.
So, in 2015, this committee held six bipar-
tisan hearings and formed a working group
to find ways to fix the interoperability of
electronic health records. These hearings led
to a bipartisan group of HELP Committee
members working together to include a pro-
vision in the 21st Century Cures Act to stop
information blocking and encourage inter-
operability.
Today’s hearing is about two new rules the
Department of Health and Human Services
has proposed to implement this provision in
the 21st Century Cures Act. These two rules
are complicated, but I’d like to highlight a
few ways that they lay out a path toward
interoperability:
First the rules define information block-
ing—so it is more precisely clear what we
mean when one system, hospital, doctor,
vendor, or insurer is purposefully not shar-
ing information with another;
Second, the rules require that by January
1, 2020, for the first time, insurers must share
a patient’s health care data with the patient
so their health information follows them as
they see different doctors;
Third, all electronic health records must
adopt the same standards for data elements,
known as an Application Programming
Interface, or API, two years after these rules
are completed.
Fourth, hospitals are required to send elec-
tronic notifications to a patient’s doctors,
immediately, when that patient is admitted
to, discharged from, or transferred from the
hospital.
According to the Department of Health
and Human Services, these two new rules
should give more than 125 million patients
easier access to their own records in an elec-
tronic format. This will be a huge relief to
any of us who have spent hours tracking
down paper copies of our records and carting
them back and forth to different doctors’ of-
fices.
The rules will reduce administrative bur-
den on doctors so they can spend more time
with patients. A recent study from Kaiser
found that emergency room doctors, in order
to use electronic health records systems,
make up to 4,000 mouse clicks per shift. If
electronic health records data was truly
interoperable, it would greatly reduce how
many clicks doctors have to make. Accord-
ing to HHS, spending less time on these ad-
ministrative tasks will improve efficiency
and therefore could save $3.3 billion a year.
And because doctors can see patients’ full
medical history, they can avoid ordering un-
necessary tests and procedures.
I also want to be aware of unintended con-
sequences from these rules: Are these rules
moving too fast? In 2015, I urged the Obama
Administration to slow down the Meaningful
Use program, which they did not do, and
looking back, the results would have been
better if they had.
Are the standards for data elements too
rigid? Is the door still open for bad actors to
game the system and continue to informa-
tion block? And how can we ensure patient
privacy as patients gain more access and
control over their personal health informa-
tion. And how do we help them keep it se-
cure?
I want to ensure these rules will make the
problem of information blocking better, not
worse. I look forward to any specific sugges-
tions to improve these rules from those who
use electronic health records systems.
Electronic health records that work can
give patients better outcomes and better ex-
periences at a lower cost.
f
STRENGTHENING
ACCOUNTABILITY
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that a copy of
my opening statement at the Senate
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions Committee be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STRENGTHENING ACCOUNTABILITY
Mr. ALEXANDER. When I was president of
the University of Tennessee, I asked David
Gardner, who was then president of the Uni-
versity of California, why his university was
considered one of the best in the world. He
told me:
First, autonomy. We basically have four
branches of government, he said, and one of
them is the University of California.
Second, competition and choice—large
amounts of state and federal money fol-
lowing students to the campus of their
choice.
Third, a commitment to excellence by in-
stitutional leaders and faculty.
As a former university president, I am very
much aware that despite that autonomy, our
country’s 6000 colleges and universities re-
port to a lot of bosses—they are accountable
to a great many individuals, boards, govern-
ments and other entities.
First, they are accountable to the students
who may take their federal and state grants
and loans to any accredited institution that
will admit them;
Next, to 44 federally recognized accrediting
agencies whose certification of quality is
necessary before institutions are allowed to
accept students who bring $30 billion in new
Pell grants and $100 billion in federal student
loans each year;
To ensure that these billions of dollars are
spent wisely, the federal government meas-
ures how many students default on their
loans;
For the 80 percent of students who attend
public colleges and universities, states have
governors, state legislators, laws, and state
higher education authorities;
Every institution, public or private, also
has its own board of trustees or directors;
And in addition, there are specific federal
rules for the for-profit institutions, which
about five percent of students attend, in
order to stop fraud against students and tax-
payers;
And when making a list of bosses, no
former university president should leave out
the faculty—most faculty members I have
known take great pride in maintaining insti-
tutional excellence.
So any president of an American higher
education institution has a lot of bosses and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.015 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2810 May 14, 2019
a lot of people to whom he or she is account-
able. And that has been a mostly successful
approach.
Most surveys show that the United States
has most of the best colleges and universities
in the world. The dream of many of the best
students from around the world is to attend
American colleges and universities.
Still, I hear often from students asking if
college is worth their time and money.
I believe there are steps we can take to
make our higher education institutions more
accountable—to provide those students, and
the taxpayers backing their loans, with a
clear yes, college is worth it.
In March, at our first bipartisan hearing
during this Congress on updating the Higher
Education Act, we looked at how to simplify
how 20 million families apply for federal stu-
dent aid. Last week, we held a bipartisan
hearing about how to create a safe environ-
ment for students attending college.
Today’s hearing will be looking at ways to
ensure that students are earning degrees
worth their time and money and that tax-
payers are paid back the hundreds of billions
that they have loaned students to earn de-
grees.
To hold colleges accountable for the $130
billion a year in grants and loans, in 1990,
Congress created the Cohort Default Rate,
which applies to all colleges and univer-
sities.
This measure makes a college ineligible to
receive federal student aid if, for three con-
secutive years, more than 30 percent of its
borrowers are in default or over 40 percent in
any one year.
However this cohort default rate has prov-
en to be a poor instrument of accountability,
since it does not take into account the one
third of borrowers who are not yet in default
but don’t make payments on time.
Over the last decade, only 20 schools have
become ineligible for federal student aid
under the Cohort Default Rate, according to
the Congressional Research Service. And
then there are two federal accountability
rules that apply only to for-profit institu-
tions.
One, the 90–10 rule, which requires that at
least ten percent of a for-profit’s revenue
come from non-federal sources; and
Two, the Gainful Employment Rule, which
looks at how much debt a graduate has com-
pared to his or her salary.
This comparison of debt to salary has
proved to be a confusing and ineffective
measure of accountability because it is too
complex and does not account for students
who take out loans but do not complete their
degrees.
So we need a more effective measure of ac-
countability.
But I do not want the federal government
acting as a sort of National School Board for
Colleges—telling states and accreditors and
boards of directors at institutions how to
manage the 6,000 colleges and universities.
Four years ago, this Committee passed the
Every Student Succeeds Act, which reversed
the trend towards a national school board for
elementary and secondary education.
For the same reasons, Washington should
resist the urge to send thousands of federal
bureaucrats to evaluate our colleges and uni-
versities, which would, in effect, create a na-
tional school board for colleges. Instead,
Congress should create a new measure of ac-
countability that looks at whether students
are actually repaying their loans.
This would be a more effective and simpler
way to ensure that taxpayers aren’t financ-
ing degrees that are priced so high and worth
so little that students are never able to pay
back their loans.
This proposal is much like the Gainful Em-
ployment Rule—but it would apply to every
program at every college—public, private,
and for-profit and would include students
who took out loans but dropped out before
graduating.
For some programs, this new measure
should provide colleges with an incentive to
lower tuition and help their students stay in
school to finish their degrees and find a job
so they can repay their loans.
A second step to improve accountability
would be for the federal government to make
the data it collects from colleges more useful
to students and families. The Department
has struggled for years under all administra-
tions to make such information easily acces-
sible to students and families.
As we work on updating the Higher Edu-
cation Act, we first need to identify what in-
formation schools actually need to report,
and second to provide direction to the De-
partment on how to make that information
accessible and useful to students.
And third, we should strengthen the 44 fed-
erally recognized accrediting agencies upon
which we rely for certifying that students
are receiving a quality education.
For example, instead of requiring that
accreditors have a standard of ‘‘student
achievement,’’ Congress could more clearly
require that accreditors measure whether
students are both learning and succeeding,
but leave the specific ways of measuring
those to accreditors and institutions.
Our goal needs to be to help students know
that their degrees are going to be worth
their time and money and to help taxpayers
know that the federal government isn’t fi-
nancing programs that do not provide stu-
dents with a valuable education.
f
TRIBUTE TO J. MICHAEL KEELING
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I
wish to pay tribute to J. Michael
Keeling, a lifelong advocate for em-
ployee retirement benefits who be-
lieved in creating engaged workforces
through Employee Stock Ownership
Plans, or ESOPs.
A proud graduate of Harvard and the
University of Texas School of Law, and
a lifelong student of history, Mr.
Keeling’s support of ESOPs began in
the 1970s when he served as chief of
staff for former Congressman J.J.
‘‘Jake’’ Pickle, an ardent supporter of
these plans.
When Mr. Keeling joined the ESOP
Association, he distinguished himself
as an outstanding advocate and lawyer
on behalf of employees and their com-
panies seeking to establish Employee
Stock Ownership Plans during the
1980s.
In 1991, after serving as general coun-
sel to the organization, Mr. Keeling
was chosen by the ESOP Association’s
board of directors to lead its operations
as president and chief staff officer. It
was during his distinguished 28-year
tenure in this position that many im-
portant achievements benefitting thou-
sands of businesses and millions of em-
ployee owners took place.
Thanks to his efforts, the ESOP As-
sociation developed a nationwide net-
work of chapters facilitating edu-
cation, training, and networking
among employee owners. These local
groups help hundreds of companies bet-
ter engage their employee owners and
successfully navigate the often com-
plex regulations guiding ESOPs.
Recognizing that good policy is
predicated on good data, Mr. Keeling
worked with the ESOP Association to
establish the Employee Ownership
Foundation to fund research on the
economic and personal effects of
ESOPs and broad-based employee own-
ership. Since its inception in 1997, the
foundation has donated millions of dol-
lars to fund academic research. Its sup-
port was the key factor in establishing
the first academic center devoted spe-
cifically to employee ownership: the
Institute for the Study of Employee
Ownership and Profit Sharing, at Rut-
gers University.
Thanks to foundation-funded re-
search, as a nation we now have clear
evidence that companies with em-
ployee stock ownership are much more
likely to withstand difficult economic
times, more likely to invest in em-
ployee training, and are far less likely
than conventionally owned firms to lay
off employees. The foundation also has
funded the academic study of dozens of
fellows and researchers interested in
employee ownership and its role in the
U.S. economy.
During his tenure at the ESOP Asso-
ciation, Mr. Keeling visited nearly 600
ESOP companies. The breadth of in-
sight he gained, coupled with his deep
understanding of ERISA and tax law,
made him a uniquely credible voice in
the retirement plan community.
Mr. Keeling is retiring from his role
as head of the ESOP Association this
year, and I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing his longterm, pas-
sionate efforts to preserve and advance
the retirement benefits of millions of
working Americans.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO MICHAEL L. HOPKINS
∑ Mrs SHAHEEN. Madam President,
today I wish to salute Michael L. Hop-
kins for his decades of tireless work
and devoted service to the schools of
Rochester, NH. Mike is retiring this
year as superintendent of the Roch-
ester School District after spending the
entirety of his career in the city’s
school system. He leaves a legacy wor-
thy of our praise and our gratitude.
We all know the value of a quality
education. It plays a critical role in the
development of young minds every-
where, and enthusiastic teachers and
administrators make it possible for so
many students to take part in experi-
ences that shape a lifelong apprecia-
tion for learning. As a former teacher
myself, I know the commitment and
understanding required to engage stu-
dents, encourage curiosity and critical
thinking, ultimately prepare them to
find success after school and outside of
the classroom.
Mike is also a former teacher, and he
has brought that perspective to every
move he makes as his district’s top de-
cision-maker. After graduating from
his hometown school, Grinnell College
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.011 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2811
May 14, 2019
in Iowa, Mike set his sights toward
New Hampshire and accepted a teach-
ing job at the Gonic School. He quickly
assumed managerial duties in addition
to his teaching responsibilities as the
school’s teaching principal. Mike was a
fitting choice when a full-time prin-
cipal position opened a short time later
at the nearby William Allen School,
where he served for 6 years before being
promoted to assistant superintendent
of the city’s school system. A dozen
years later, he made a seamless transi-
tion to superintendent of all Rochester
schools.
As superintendent, Mike has retained
a deep connection to the classroom,
even in a sprawling district comprised
of 11 public schools with over 4,400 chil-
dren and 800 employees. He is a con-
stant presence in the halls of city
schools, and teachers are quick to
point out how his caring, compassion,
and guidance make it easier for them
to fulfill their essential roles as edu-
cators. He has also forged meaningful
relationships outside school walls with
business and nonprofit leaders in the
Greater Rochester region, all in an ef-
fort to strengthen the educational pro-
grams he is able to offer to students.
Under Mike’s leadership, Rochester
schools have been quick to adapt to a
changing learning landscape, embrac-
ing technology and alternative edu-
cational methods in order to provide
the best education possible to city stu-
dents. He has been influential in devel-
oping training programs at Spaulding
High School’s Creteau Regional Center
that pair bright high school students
with local businesses looking to grow.
This is an approach that can help sat-
isfy demands statewide for a capable,
qualified workforce.
Mike has accomplished so much in
his four decades in the Lilac City
schools. Words like visionary, inno-
vator, and community builder are often
used to describe his tenure; yet, if one
were to ask Rochester teachers, staff,
administrators, school board members,
and residents about Mike Hopkins, one
quality emerges more often than the
others: his humility. Mike always put
the interests of students and teachers
first, and when he found success, he
was always eager to share credit with
others. He was driven by a desire to
better the lives of students, and his im-
pact on the Rochester community will
be felt for years to come.
On behalf of the people of New Hamp-
shire, I ask my colleagues and all
Americans to join me in thanking Mike
Hopkins for his service and wishing
him all the best as he begins a well-de-
served retirement.∑
f
RECOGNIZING THE ANCHORAGE
NORTH STARS
∑ Mr. SULLIVAN. Madam President, I
would like to take a moment today to
recognize and congratulate an incred-
ible group of young Alaskans on their
victory in the 2019 USA Hockey Na-
tional Championship. On April 8, 2019,
the Anchorage North Stars beat the
McKinney North Stars of Texas 4–3 to
win the Youth Tier II 16U National
Championship.
USA Hockey is the major governing
body for ice hockey in the United
States. There are almost 600,000 players
across the various age groups. Make no
mistake; the best youth hockey players
in the country were competing in this
tournament, which makes the North
Stars’ victory all the more significant.
The Anchorage North Stars traveled
nearly 4,000 miles to compete with 11
other teams for the title. Early on in
the tournament, during round-robin
play, the Anchorage North Stars lost
to the McKinney North Stars in a hard-
fought 3–2 battle. However, like many
great sports stories, the Anchorage
North Stars found redemption.
Late in the championship game, the
teams were tied 3–3, but Hayden Fox,
who had already scored one goal in the
third period, scored the game-winning
goal for the Anchorage North Stars
with less than a minute left on the
clock. The Anchorage North Stars held
their lead and came home with a na-
tional championship, the first for an
Alaska youth hockey team since the
mid-90’s.
Hockey is a way of life for many
Alaskan families. Many of these play-
ers have been in the sport since they
were young kids. The North Stars’ vic-
tory is a testament to the years of hard
work and commitment by each and
every player and coach, not to mention
all the support from parents and other
family members who were there from
the beginning providing support, driv-
ing the players to and from practice,
and cheering them on to victory. This
achievement was a long time in the
making, and I think it is important to
recognize that kind of dedication.
Throughout the season, the North
Stars adhered to two mottos—‘‘Let’s
Leave No Doubt’’ and ‘‘Together We
Can.’’ This spirit of confidence and
comradeship took the North Stars all
the way to the final round, and they
showed the entire country what kind of
team they are. They performed at the
highest level on the biggest stage, and
I think it is safe to say that there is no
one doubting them now.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:03 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 986. An act to provide that certain
guidance related to waivers for State innova-
tion under the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act shall have no force of ef-
fect.
H.R. 2157. An act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 986. An act to provide that certain
guidance related to waivers for State innova-
tion under the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act shall have no force or ef-
fect.
H.R. 2157. An act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1261. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Senate, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of the receipts and expend-
itures of the Senate for the period from Oc-
tober 1, 2018 through March 31, 2019, received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on May 14, 2019; ordered to lie on the table.
EC–1262. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Marketing Order Regulating the Han-
dling of Spearmint Oil Produced in the Far
West; Revision of the Salable Quantity and
Allotment Percentage for Class 3 (Native)
Spearmint Oil for the 2018–2019 Marketing
Area’’ ((7 CFR Part 985) (Docket No. AMS–
SC–17–0073)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 8, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–1263. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Mushroom Promotion, Research, and
Consumer Information Order; Reallocation
of Council Membership’’ ((7 CFR Part 1209)
(Docket No. AMS–SC–18–0009)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
May 8, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–1264. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Organic Program: Amend-
ments to the National List of Allowed and
Prohibited Substances for 2017 NOSB Rec-
ommendations (Livestock and Handling)’’ ((7
CFR Part 205) (Docket No. AMS–NOP–17–
0080)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–1265. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.010 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2812 May 14, 2019
violations of the Antideficiency Act that in-
volved fiscal years 2013–2015 Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) Navy funds and was as-
signed case number 17–01; to the Committee
on Appropriations.
EC–1266. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a semiannual re-
port entitled, ‘‘Acceptance of Contributions
for Defense Programs, Projects, and Activi-
ties; Defense Cooperation Account’’ and a
semiannual listing of personal property con-
tributed by coalition partners; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–1267. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, the Defense Environmental Programs
Annual Report for fiscal year 2018; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1268. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Civil Monetary Penalty In-
flation Adjustment’’ (RIN0790–AK40) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on May 13, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–1269. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, Export-Import Bank of
the United States, transmitting, pursuant to
law, two (2) reports relative to vacancies in
the Export-Import Bank of the United
States, received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on May 9, 2019; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–1270. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility; Oklahoma: Tulsa, City of Osage,
Rogers, Tulsa and Wagoner Counties’’ ((44
CFR Part 64) (Docket No. FEMA–2019–0003))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 9, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–1271. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Energy, transmitting, proposed leg-
islation; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
EC–1272. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Amendments to Federal Implementa-
tion Plan for Managing Air Emissions from
True Minor Sources in Indian Country Oil &
Natural Gas Production and Natural Gas
Processing Segments of O&NG Sector’’ (FRL
No. 9993–43–OAR) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on May 10, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–1273. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Designation of Areas for Air Quality
Planning Purposes; Ohio; Redesignation of
the Lake County Sulfur Dioxide Nonattain-
ment Area’’ (FRL No. 9993–54–Region 5) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
May 10, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–1274. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Material Safety and Safeguards, Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Criteria for Accident Monitoring Instru-
mentation for Nuclear Power Plants’’
(NUREG–0700, 0711, and 0800) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on May
9, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–1275. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to
Congress: The Administration, Cost, and Im-
pact of the Quality Improvement Organiza-
tion Program for Medicare Beneficiaries for
Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–1276. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, Peace Corps, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, three (3) reports relative to va-
cancies in the Peace Corps, received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on May
9, 2019; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
EC–1277. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, Millennium Challenge
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
five (5) reports relative to vacancies in the
Millennium Challenge Corporation, received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on May 13, 2019; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–1278. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs,
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Terminated and Insolvent
Multiemployer Plans and Duties of Plan
Sponsors’’ (RIN1212–AB38) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 9,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–1279. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
for the Department’s 2017 FAIR Act Inven-
tory of Inherently Governmental Activities
and Inventory of Commercial Activities; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–1280. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Federal Housing Finance Agency,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Uniform
Resource Locator (URL) for the Agency’s
2017 FAIR Act Inventory of Inherently Gov-
ernmental Activities and Inventory of Com-
mercial Activities; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–1281. A communication from the Direc-
tor of National Marine Fisheries Service, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘ 2018
Report to Congress on the Disclosure of Fi-
nancial Interests and Recusal Requirements
for Regional Fishery Management Councils
(Councils) and Scientific and Statistical
Committees (SSCs) and on Apportionment of
Membership for Regional Fishery Manage-
ment Councils’’; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1282. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Elimi-
nation of Obligation to File Broadcast Mid-
Term Report (Form 397) Under Section
73.2080(f) (2); Modernization of Media Regula-
tion Initiative’’ ((FCC 19–10) (MB Docket
Nos. 18–23 and 17–105)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on May 9, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1283. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Great Lakes Pilotage Rates—2019 Annual
Review and Revisions to Methodology’’
((RIN1625–AC49) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
0665)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 9, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–53. A joint memorial adopted by the
Legislature of the State of Idaho urging the
United States Congress to take any further
actions necessary to advance the project of a
new pipeline to bring Snake River water to
Mountain Home Air Force Base through ad-
ditional congressional action to authorize
construction and provide further Military
Construction (MILCON) Funds; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
SENATE JOINT MEMORIAL NO. 104
Whereas, the Mountain Home Air Force
Base draws its water supply from the Moun-
tain Home Aquifer. The aquifer is over-draft-
ed by about 30,000 acre-feet annually and is
declining approximately two feet per year;
and
Whereas, there are water quality issues in
some of the wells that the Mountain Home
Air Force Base depends on for its water sup-
ply. Of the six main wells that are on the
base, only two are safe sources of drinking
water and four are contaminated. Of the four
contaminated wells, one is high in nitrates
and is used strictly for irrigation, and the
other three are high in nitrates and
perfluorinated compounds; and
Whereas, the state, in partnership with the
United States Air Force is working on the
Mountain Home Air Force Base Sustainable
Water Supply Project. The purpose of the
project is to provide a sustainable, long-term
water supply for the base from the Snake
River and to eliminate the base’s reliance on
the declining Mountain Home Aquifer; and
Whereas, the project consists of a pump
station at C.J. Strike Reservoir and a 14.4
mile long pipeline to bring Snake River
water to the base, as well as construction of
a water treatment plant at the base; and
Whereas, it is anticipated that the state
will build, own, maintain, and operate the
pipeline and the pumps and that the United
States Air Force will build, operate, and
maintain the water treatment plant, as well
as anything downstream of the plant; and
Whereas, Mountain Home Air Force Base is
one of the largest employers in Idaho. Ac-
cording to a 2016 study, the base is respon-
sible for the direct employment of 4,686 per-
sonnel, supports an additional 190 jobs in
local businesses that directly supply the
base’s operations, and is responsible for 2,127
jobs supported by the consumer spending of
those who are directly and indirectly em-
ployed by the base; and
Whereas, Mountain Home Air Force Base
has been estimated to support the employ-
ment of more than 10,500 individuals; and
Whereas, Mountain Home Air Force Base
generates $462 million in labor income; $797
million in all forms of income including
wages, salaries, interest, rent, and profit;
and an output of goods and services valued
at $965 million; and
Whereas, a 2010 Economic Impact Analysis
by the United States Air Force, assisted by
Boise State University, shows that the esti-
mated annual economic impact from the
Mountain Home Air Force Base is approxi-
mately $1.02 billion; and
Whereas, the State of Idaho and the De-
partment of Commerce recognize that con-
tinued economic viability requires taking
care of existing business before expanding
economic development and attracting new
business; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:00 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MAY\S14MY9.REC S14MY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2813
May 14, 2019
Whereas, it is anticipated that there could
be another round of Base Realignment and
Closure in the near future; and
Whereas, Mountain Horne Air Force Base
has many strong attributes, such as great
airspace, many clear weather days suitable
for flying, and low possibility of encroach-
ment around the base; and
Whereas, the uncertainty of a dependable
water supply necessary for future operation
is the only weakness that jeopardizes the fu-
ture of Mountain Home Air Force Base: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, By the members of the First Reg-
ular Session of the Sixty-fifth Idaho Legisla-
ture, the Senate and the House of Represent-
atives concurring therein, that we support
the construction of a new pipeline to bring
Snake River water to Mountain Home Air
Force Base to ensure the long-term viability
of the base; and be it further
Resolved, That the Idaho Legislature urges
the congressional delegation for the State of
Idaho to take any further actions necessary
to advance the pipeline project through addi-
tional congressional action to authorize con-
struction and provide further Military Con-
struction (MILCON) Funds; and be it further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
be, and she is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a copy of this Memorial to the
President of the Senate and the Speaker of
the House of Representatives of Congress,
and to the congressional delegation rep-
resenting the State of Idaho in the Congress
of the United States.
POM–54. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the Legislature of the State of Hawaii
urging the United States Congress to enact
legislation removing cannabis from the Fed-
eral Controlled Substances Act and facilitate
the full spectrum of private banking services
for cannabis-related business; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 89
Whereas, 33 states, four United States ter-
ritories, and the District of Columbia have
authorized the use of medical cannabis;
twenty-two states, the United States Virgin
Islands, and the District of Columbia have
decriminalized cannabis; and 10 states, the
Northern Mariana Islands, the District of Co-
lumbia, and three Native American tribes
have legalized adultuse of cannabis; and
Whereas, data submitted by the Hawai’i
Attorney General to the United States De-
partment of Justice over the past decade in-
dicates that there are over 1,000 arrests for
cannabis possession in Hawai’i each year, in-
cluding hundreds of juveniles who might not
otherwise encounter the criminal justice sys-
tem, and that Native Hawaiians are dis-
proportionately arrested for cannabis posses-
sion; and
Whereas, Hawai’i enacted Act 228, Session
Laws of Hawai’i 2000, which authorized the
acquisition, possession, and use of medical
cannabis, and authorized the establishment
and regulation of medical cannabis
dispensaries through Act 241, Session Laws
of Hawai’i 2015; and
Whereas, there are currently over 24,000
medical cannabis patients registered with
the Hawai’i Department of Health; and
Whereas, continued scheduling of cannabis
under the federal Controlled Substances Act
impairs the ability of medical cannabis
dispensaries and other cannabis-related busi-
nesses to operate without the prospect of
federal seizures, forfeitures, arrests, and
other enforcement and prosecutorial actions;
and
Whereas, alcohol and tobacco remain out-
side the purview of the federal Controlled
Substances Act and have significant nega-
tive impacts on individual and public health,
including physical injuries, psychological
and social harm, and the onset of chronic,
often fatal illnesses related to regular use;
and
Whereas, Hawai’i’s medical cannabis
dispensaries and other cannabis-related busi-
nesses, including those providing goods, serv-
ices, property, and facilities to cannabis-re-
lated businesses, are hampered by the inabil-
ity to obtain the full spectrum of private
banking services under federal law; and
Whereas, legislation has been introduced in
recent years by members of Congress to fa-
cilitate the full spectrum of banking serv-
ices, including deposit insurance, for can-
nabis-related businesses: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved by the House of Representatives of
the Thirtieth Legislature of the State of Ha-
wai’i, Regular Session of 2019, the Senate
concurring, that this body hereby requests
the United States Congress to enact legisla-
tion that will remove cannabis from the fed-
eral Controlled Substances Act and facilitate
the full spectrum of private banking services
for cannabis-related business: and be it fur-
ther
Resolved, That certified copies of this Con-
current Resolution be transmitted to the
President of the United States, Vice Presi-
dent of the United States, President Pro
Tempore of the United States Senate, Speak-
er of the United States House of Representa-
tives, Majority Leaders and Minority Lead-
ers of the United States Senate and United
States House of Representatives, and mem-
bers of Hawai’i’s congressional delegation
with the respectful request that the full and
complete text of this Concurrent Resolution
be printed in the Congressional Record.
POM–55. A joint memorial adopted by the
Legislature of the State of Idaho urging the
United States Congress to vote to propose
the Regulation Freedom Amendment to the
United States Constitution; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
SENATE JOINT MEMORIAL NO. 102
Whereas, the growth and abuse of federal
regulatory authority threatens our constitu-
tional liberties, including those guaranteed
by the Bill of Rights in the First, Second,
Fourth, and Fifth Amendments of our Con-
stitution; and
Whereas, federal regulators must be more
accountable to elected representatives of the
people and not immune from such account-
ability; and
Whereas, the United States House of Rep-
resentatives has passed the Regulations from
the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS)
Act to require that Congress approve major
new federal regulations before they can take
effect; and
Whereas, even if enacted, a law may be re-
pealed or waived by a future Congress and
President; and
Whereas, an amendment to the United
States Constitution does not require the
President’s approval and cannot be waived
by a future Congress and President: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, By the members of the First Reg-
ular Session of the Sixty-fifth Idaho Legisla-
ture, the Senate and the House of Represent-
atives concurring therein, that we hereby
urge the United States Congress to vote to
propose the Regulation Freedom Amend-
ment to the United States Constitution as
follows:
Whenever one quarter of the members of
the United States House of Representatives
or the United States Senate transmits to the
President their written declaration of oppo-
sition to a proposed federal regulation, it
shall require a majority vote of the House of
Representatives and the Senate to adopt
that regulation; and be it further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
be, and she is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a copy of this Memorial to the
President of the Senate and the Speaker of
the House of Representatives of Congress,
and to the congressional delegation rep-
resenting the State of Idaho in the Congress
of the United States.
POM–56. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of South Dakota re-
scinding certain previous applications made
by the Legislature to the United States Con-
gress calling for a constitutional convention,
or convention of the states, for the purpose
of amending the Constitution of the United
States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 1004
Whereas, the Legislature of the State of
South Dakota, in 1907, adopted House Joint
Resolution 2; in 1909, adopted House Joint
Resolutions 5 and 7; and in 1971, adopted
House Joint Resolution 503, making formal
application to Congress to call an Article V
constitutional convention for the purpose of
altering the Constitution of the United
States of America: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, By the House of Representatives
of the Ninety-Fourth Legislature of the
State of South Dakota, the Senate concur-
ring therein, that House Joint Resolution 2,
adopted in 1907; House Joint Resolutions 5
and 7, adopted in 1909; and House Joint Reso-
lution 503, adopted in 1971, of the Legislature
of the State of South Dakota, be rescinded;
and be it further
Resolved, That the secretary of state trans-
mit copies of this resolution to the President
of the United States, the Speaker and Clerk
of the United States House of Representa-
tives, the President and Secretary of the
United States Senate, the members of the
South Dakota congressional delegation, and
the Governor of the State of South Dakota,
attesting the adoption of this resolution by
the Legislature of the State of South Da-
kota.
POM–57. A joint memorial adopted by the
Legislature of the State of Idaho urging the
President of the United States and United
States Congress to take such action as nec-
essary to require the Secretary of the Inte-
rior and the Secretary of Agriculture to rec-
ognize valid easements existing pursuant to
the 1866 Mining Act on lands under their re-
spective administrations without requiring
citizens of the United States to sue the gov-
ernment in order to enjoy the benefits of
such validly existing easement rights; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
SENATE JOINT MEMORIAL NO. 106
Whereas, approximately 63% of land in the
State of Idaho is public land controlled by
the United States, primarily by the Bureau
of Land Management and the Forest Service,
which makes the right to cross federal land
for delivery of water rights to Idaho water
users extremely important; and
Whereas, the law of the United States,
since the 1866 Mining Act, has recognized
that a water user in the arid West has the
right to divert water from the rivers and
streams across federal land for use on pri-
vate property for, among other purposes,
mining and agriculture. When the water user
has a water right appropriated under state
law, the law provides that a water user needs
no approval from the federal government for
the diversion and beneficial use of the water
on the user’s private property; and
Whereas, the United States Congress
passed the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act (FLPMA), as amended, in 1976,
which explicitly recognizes and protects
easements and rights existing on federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.027 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2814 May 14, 2019
lands and recognizes under previous laws,
such as the 1866 Mining Act, to deliver water
appropriated under state law across federal
land to private property; and
Whereas, Congress passed an amendment
to FLPMA in 1986 known as the Colorado
Ditch Bill Act, which explicitly directs the
Secretary of Agriculture to issue a perma-
nent easement for a water system involving
reservoirs, canals, ditches, flumes, laterals,
pipes, pipelines, tunnels, and other facilities
and systems, for the impoundment, storage,
transportation, and distribution of water
traversing federal lands within the National
Forest System when: (1) the water system is
used for agricultural irrigation or livestock
purposes; (2) the system that existed in 1976
has remained in operation; (3) any enlarge-
ment of the system after 1976 requires sepa-
rate authorization; (4) the user has a valid
state water right; and (5) the use involves
some private land. The water users were to
supply the Forest Service with evidence of
the location of easements; and
Whereas, the state of Idaho has had a com-
prehensive method for recognizing the appro-
priation of waters of the state for beneficial
use under the priority doctrine since before
statehood; and
Whereas, the State of Idaho recognized in
1984 the need to adjudicate the water rights
of this state and the Legislature directed the
Department of Water Resources to initiate
the Snake River Basin Adjudication (SRBA),
as provided by Idaho law, to facilitate the ef-
fective management of the waters of the
Snake River Basin and to engage in a com-
prehensive adjudication of all surface and
groundwater use in the basin; and
Whereas, the United States was a party to
the SRBA, is bound by the decrees of the
SRBA court, and must recognize the water
rights of the Idaho water users as decreed by
the SRBA court; and
Whereas, the SRBA issued more than
167,000 water rights and issued its final uni-
fied decree in 2014, in which the SRBA court
decreed water rights with priority rights
dating back, in some instances, to the 1860s;
and
Whereas, Congress further directed that
applications under the Colorado Ditch Bill
Act by easement holders be submitted by the
end of 1996 to assist the Secretary of Agri-
culture in issuing permanent easements; and
Whereas, the Secretary of Agriculture has
not issued or recognized many of these per-
manent easements, even though the water
rights have been decreed by the SRBA court
and the applications have been submitted as
required by Congress more than 20 years ago;
and
Whereas, certain interest groups are argu-
ing that the secretary must take actions
harmful to the pre-FLPMA easement holders
because the secretary has not issued the
mandated easements; and
Whereas, the vast majority of surface
water rights in this state were decreed with
priority dates that preceded the enactment
of FLPMA in 1976, and those water uses are
entitled to the right to cross federal lands to
deliver their state water rights; and
Whereas, there are many Idaho water
users, such as the members of the Salmon
Headwaters Conservation Association, that
properly complied with the easement re-
quirements specified by the Colorado Ditch
Bill Act to have their permanent easement
recognized by the United States, but are now
required to further expend resources on legal
and administrative processes to defend and
protect their valid existing Idaho water
rights and associated rights-of-way across
federal land: Now, therefore be it
Resolved, By the members of the First Reg-
ular Session of the Sixty-fifth Idaho Legisla-
ture, the Senate and the House of Represent-
atives concurring therein, that we urge the
President of the United States and Congress
to take such action as necessary to require
the Secretary of the Interior and the Sec-
retary of Agriculture to recognize valid ease-
ments existing pursuant to the 1866 Mining
Act on lands under their respective adminis-
trations without requiring citizens of the
United States to sue the government in
order to enjoy the benefits of such validly
existing easement rights; and be it further
Resolved, That the President and Congress
take such action as necessary to require the
Secretary of Agriculture to recognize valid
easements existing prior to FLPMA on lands
within the National Forest System without
requiring citizens of the United States to sue
the government in order to enjoy the bene-
fits of such validly existing rights; and be it
further
Resolved, That in recognition that the Sec-
retary of Agriculture has not acted on appli-
cations submitted more than 20 years ago,
the President and Congress are urged to take
such action as necessary to extend the dead-
line for filing applications under FLPMA for
an additional two years; and be it further
Resolved, That the President and Congress
are urged to take such action as necessary to
require the Secretary of Agriculture to re-
frain from interfering with the use of any de-
creed water right by attempting under any
federal law to attach conditions on any 1866
Mining Act or FLPMA easements crossing
federal lands, especially in a manner that re-
stricts or conditions in any way the use of
water on private land as authorized by state
laws; and be it further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
be, and she is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a copy of this Memorial to the
President of the United States, the President
of the Senate and the Speaker of the House
of Representatives of Congress, to the con-
gressional delegation representing the State
of Idaho in the Congress of the United
States, to the Secretary of Agriculture, and
to the Secretary of the Interior.
POM–58. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of Maine urging the
President of the United States and the
United States Congress to support the
pledges made by the United States in the
Paris Agreement; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
HOUSE PAPER 1047
Whereas, the year 2016 was the hottest year
in the modem temperature record; and
Whereas, there is increasing consensus
among scientists and economists that there
will be serious economic consequences if we
fail to reduce global carbon emissions quick-
ly; and
Whereas, a changing climate will irrevers-
ibly damage the global economy; and
Whereas, if left unaddressed, the con-
sequences of a rising global temperature
have the potential to adversely affect all
Americans, hitting vulnerable populations
hardest, hurting working families and harm-
ing productivity in middle class job sectors
such as construction, agriculture and tour-
ism, among others; and
Whereas, there has been an increase in ex-
treme weather events across the United
States that have affected supply chains, con-
sumer behaviors and local economies; and
Whereas, the Paris Agreement provides a
pathway forward to limit temperature rise
to well below 2 degrees Celsius; and
Whereas, the Paris Agreement sends a pow-
erful signal to the world that climate change
is an immediate problem facing the planet;
and
Whereas, if the United States withdraws
from the Paris Agreement, the United States
will face an international diplomatic back-
lash and will cede leadership on climate
change and renewable energy issues to
China: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That We, your Memorialists, on
behalf of the people we represent, take this
opportunity to respectfully request that the
President of the United States and the
United States Congress work with our allies
that signed the Paris Agreement; and be it
further
Resolved, That We respectfully urge and re-
quest that the President of the United States
not issue an Executive Order withdrawing
the United States from the Paris Agreement;
and be it further
Resolved, That suitable copies of this reso-
lution, duly authenticated by the Secretary
of State, be transmitted to the Honorable
Donald John Trump, President of the United
States, to the President of the United States
Senate, to the Speaker of the United States
House of Representatives and to each Mem-
ber of the Maine Congressional Delegation.
POM–59. A resolution adopted by the City
Commission of Coconut Creek, Florida urg-
ing the United States Congress to pass the
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act
of 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. ROBERTS for the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
*Mindy Brashears, of Texas, to be Under
Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety.
*Naomi C. Earp, of Maryland, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Agriculture.
*Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to be Under
Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Edu-
cation, and Economics.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
ENZI, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CASEY, Mr. CRAMER,
Mr. DAINES, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. HIRONO,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. TESTER, Ms. COLLINS, Ms.
HASSAN, and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 1438. A bill to amend title 39, United
States Code, to extend the authority of the
United States Postal Service to issue a
semipostal to raise funds for breast cancer
research; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms.
CANTWELL):
S. 1439. A bill to reauthorize activities of
the Maritime Administration, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
SANDERS, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 1440. A bill to discontinue a Federal pro-
gram that authorizes State and local law en-
forcement officers to investigate, apprehend,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.044 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2815
May 14, 2019
and detain aliens in accordance with a writ-
ten agreement with the Director of U.S. Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement and to
clarify that immigration enforcement is
solely a function of the Federal Government;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. BARRASSO, and Mr. COT-
TON):
S. 1441. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to the provision of certain vessels for
the construction of Russian energy export
pipelines, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 1442. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to
strengthen school security; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. KING, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. TESTER, and Mr. COONS):
S. 1443. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a nonrefundable
credit for working family caregivers; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself,
Mr. BRAUN, and Mr. HAWLEY):
S. 1444. A bill to repeal the provision of law
that provides automatic pay adjustments for
Members of Congress; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. LEAHY, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
CARPER, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. SCHATZ,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. MURPHY, Mr. BENNET, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. REED, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. KAINE, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. UDALL, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
HEINRICH, and Mr. KING):
S. 1445. A bill to provide a coordinated re-
gional response to manage effectively the en-
demic violence and humanitarian crisis in El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. BLUNT):
S. 1446. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to include an
act of unregulated custody transfer in the
definition of child abuse and neglect, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. UDALL, Mr. KING, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. MORAN, Ms. COLLINS,
Ms. STABENOW, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
ENZI, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. CRAMER, and
Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 1447. A bill to allow the financing by
United States persons of sales of agricultural
commodities to Cuba; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
BRAUN, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 1448. A bill to require certain practi-
tioners authorized to prescribe controlled
substances to complete continuing edu-
cation; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 1449. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to require warning labels for pre-
scription opioids, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. BLUNT):
S. 1450. A bill to enhance pre- and post-
adoptive support services; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. GRASSLEY,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 1451. A bill to prohibit the issuance of F
or J visas to researchers affiliated with the
Chinese People’s Liberation Army; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms.
WARREN, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 1452. A bill to establish a program to
provide assistance for education and re-
search harbors; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. JONES:
S. 1453. A bill to amend the Trade Act of
1974 to provide adjustment assistance to
farmers adversely affected by reduced ex-
ports resulting from tariffs imposed as retal-
iation for United States tariff increases, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr.
JOHNSON):
S. 1454. A bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to add a representative of
the Department of Homeland Security from
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Secu-
rity Agency on the Technical Guidelines De-
velopment Committee; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself, Mr.
MCCONNELL, Mrs. BLACKBURN, and
Mr. PAUL):
S. 1455. A bill to amend the Horse Protec-
tion Act to provide increased protection for
horses participating in shows, exhibitions,
sales, and auctions, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. RISCH,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr.
YOUNG):
S. 1456. A bill to require the appropriation
of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or pro-
ceeds from a settlement received by a Fed-
eral agency, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Mr. CORNYN):
S. 1457. A bill to provide for interagency
coordination on risk mitigation in the com-
munications equipment and services market-
place and the supply chain thereof, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Ms. SMITH, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 1458. A bill to codify the Outdoor Recre-
ation Legacy Partnership Program of the
National Park Service, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. HAWLEY:
S. 1459. A bill to control the export to the
People’s Republic of China of certain tech-
nology and intellectual property important
to the national interest of the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 1460. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide for an investment op-
tion under the Thrift Savings Plan that does
not include investment in any fossil fuel
companies; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
MENENDEZ):
S. 1461. A bill to require health insurance
coverage for the treatment of infertility; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. CARDIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MURPHY,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1462. A bill to prevent a person who has
been convicted of a misdemeanor hate crime,
or received an enhanced sentence for a mis-
demeanor because of hate or bias in the com-
mission, from obtaining a firearm; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. TILLIS, and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 1463. A bill to establish a scorekeeping
rule to ensure that increases in guarantee
fees of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac shall not
be used to offset provisions that increase the
deficit; to the Committee on the Budget.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 1464. A bill to provide grants to State,
local, territorial, and tribal law enforcement
agencies to obtain behavioral health crisis
response training for law enforcement offi-
cers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
GRASSLEY):
S. 1465. A bill to amend title IV of the So-
cial Security Act to allow the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to award com-
petitive grants to enhance collaboration be-
tween State child welfare and juvenile jus-
tice systems; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 1466. A bill to establish a grant program
within the Department of Labor to support
the creation, implementation, and expansion
of registered apprenticeship programs in cy-
bersecurity; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. SINEMA (for herself, Mr.
TILLIS, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 1467. A bill to require a pilot program on
information sharing between the Depart-
ment of Defense and designated relatives and
friends of members of the Armed Forces re-
garding the experiences and challenges of
military service, particularly during and
after overseas deployments, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 1468. A bill to support the successful im-
plementation of the 1991 Paris Peace Agree-
ment in Cambodia, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
HARRIS, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 1469. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit interfering in elec-
tions with agents of a foreign government; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mr. COR-
NYN, Mrs. BLACKBURN, and Mr. COT-
TON):
S. 1470. A bill to strengthen border secu-
rity, increase resources for enforcement of
immigration laws, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. BRAUN):
S.J. Res. 21. A joint resolution proposing
amendments to the Constitution of the
United States relative to the line item veto,
a limitation on the number of terms that a
Member of Congress may serve, and requir-
ing a vote of two-thirds of the membership of
both Houses of Congress on any legislation
raising or imposing new taxes or fees; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.032 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2816 May 14, 2019
By Mr. PAUL:
S.J. Res. 22. A joint resolution relating to
the disapproval of the proposed sale to the
Government of Bahrain of certain defense ar-
ticles and services; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. PAUL:
S.J. Res. 23. A joint resolution relating to
the disapproval of the proposed sale to the
Government of the Czech Republic of certain
defense articles and services; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. PAUL:
S.J. Res. 24. A joint resolution relating to
the disapproval of the proposed sale to the
Government of the Czech Republic of certain
defense articles and services; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. PAUL:
S.J. Res. 25. A joint resolution relating to
the disapproval of the proposed sale to the
Government of the United Arab Emirates of
certain defense articles and services; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. PAUL:
S.J. Res. 26. A joint resolution relating to
the disapproval of the proposed sale to the
Government of Qatar of certain defense arti-
cles and services; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. JONES, Mr. BRAUN, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. SMITH, Mr. ROBERTS,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. HOEVEN):
S. Res. 205. A resolution expressing the
gratitude of the Senate for the people who
operate or support diaper banks and diaper
distribution programs in their local commu-
nities; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG):
S. Res. 206. A resolution marking the 70th
anniversary of the four Geneva Conventions
of 1949, expressing concern about significant
violations of international humanitarian law
on contemporary battlefields, and encour-
aging United States leadership in ensuring
greater respect for international humani-
tarian law in current conflicts, particularly
with its security partners; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. KAINE, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. BENNET, Ms. HIRONO,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. STABENOW,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
and Ms. HARRIS):
S. Res. 207. A resolution congratulating the
Senate GLASS Caucus staff association for
lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender Sen-
ate staff on the 15-year anniversary of the
association; to the Committee on Rules and
Administration.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
HARRIS, and Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. Res. 208. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of July as ‘‘American
Grown Flower Month’’ ; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr.
COONS, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. BRAUN,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. KING,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. CASEY, Ms. MCSALLY,
Ms. SINEMA, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. TESTER,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. JOHNSON,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. ISAKSON, Ms. ROSEN,
Mr. ENZI, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. ROUNDS,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. ROBERTS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
BURR, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. FISCHER,
Mr. JONES, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, Mr. CARPER, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. MORAN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. PERDUE, Mr.
REED, Mr. WICKER, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. KAINE, Mr. GARDNER,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. ROMNEY, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. COTTON, Mr. WARNER, Mr.
CASSIDY, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. LEE, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr. MURPHY,
Mr. THUNE, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. RISCH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. BLUNT, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. ERNST, Mr. SASSE,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. SHELBY,
and Mr. KENNEDY):
S. Res. 209. A resolution designating the
week of May 12 through May 18, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Police Week’’ ; considered and agreed
to.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. JONES, Mr.
SCOTT of Florida, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
MCSALLY, Ms. WARREN, and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. Res. 210. A resolution supporting the
designation of May 15, 2019, as ‘‘National
Senior Fraud Awareness Day’’ to raise
awareness about the increasing number of
fraudulent schemes targeting seniors in the
United States, to encourage the implementa-
tion of policies to prevent those schemes,
and to improve protections from those
schemes for seniors; considered and agreed
to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 63
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Okla-
homa (Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 63, a bill to implement
the recommendations of the Joint Se-
lect Committee on Budget and Appro-
priations Process Reform.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 91, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize per diem pay-
ments under comprehensive service
programs for homeless veterans to fur-
nish care to dependents of homeless
veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
172, a bill to delay the reimposition of
the annual fee on health insurance pro-
viders until after 2021.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER), the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Ms. WARREN) and the Sen-
ator from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ)
were added as cosponsors of S. 203, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
railroad track maintenance credit, and
for other purposes.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 332
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 332, a bill to amend
title 38, United States Code, to remove
the manifestation period required for
the presumptions of service connection
for chloracne, porphyria cutanea tarda,
and acute and subacute peripheral neu-
ropathy associated with exposure to
certain herbicide agents, and for other
purposes.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST)
was added as a cosponsor of S. 386, a
bill to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to eliminate the per-
country numerical limitation for em-
ployment-based immigrants, to in-
crease the per-country numerical limi-
tation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 457, a bill to require
that $1 coins issued during 2019 honor
President George H.W. Bush and to di-
rect the Secretary of the Treasury to
issue bullion coins during 2019 in honor
of Barbara Bush.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
460, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the exclu-
sion for employer-provided education
assistance to employer payments of
student loans.
S. 469
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 469, a bill to allow penalty-free
distributions from retirement accounts
in the case of certain Federal contrac-
tors impacted by Federal Government
shutdowns.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 479, a bill to revise section 48 of
title 18, United States Code, and for
other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.034 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2817
May 14, 2019
S. 495
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 495, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to reauthorize and
expand the National Threat Assess-
ment Center of the Department of
Homeland Security.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 504, a bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The Amer-
ican Legion to determine the require-
ments for membership in The Amer-
ican Legion, and for other purposes.
S. 509
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 509, a bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in com-
memoration of the United States Coast
Guard.
S. 559
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
559, a bill to amend the Family and
Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide
leave because of the death of a son or
daughter.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST), the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) and the Senator
from Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 569, a bill to direct
the Secretary of Transportation to
issue regulations relating to commer-
cial motor vehicle drivers under the
age of 21, and for other purposes.
S. 596
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 596, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for direct payment to physi-
cian assistants under the Medicare pro-
gram for certain services furnished by
such physician assistants.
S. 619
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 619, a bill to amend the Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank Act to provide
investment authority to support rural
infrastructure development, and for
other purposes.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 622, a bill to amend title
10, United States Code, to repeal the
requirement for reduction of survivor
annuities under the Survivor Benefit
Plan by veterans’ dependency and in-
demnity compensation, and for other
purposes.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 743, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the soldiers of the
5307th Composite Unit (Provisional),
commonly known as ‘‘Merrill’s Ma-
rauders’’, in recognition of their brav-
ery and outstanding service in the jun-
gles of Burma during World War II.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
803, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to restore incentives
for investments in qualified improve-
ment property.
S. 820
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) and the
Senator from Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 820, a bill to
strengthen programs authorized under
the Debbie Smith Act of 2004.
S. 821
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 821, a bill to amend the
Federal Reserve Act to prohibit certain
member banks from using discount
window lending programs, and for
other purposes.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) and the Senator from Vir-
ginia (Mr. WARNER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 846, a bill to amend title
49, United States Code, to limit certain
rolling stock procurements, and for
other purposes.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 851, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Labor to issue an occupational safe-
ty and health standard that requires
covered employers within the health
care and social service industries to de-
velop and implement a comprehensive
workplace violence prevention plan,
and for other purposes.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 879, a bill to provide a process
for granting lawful permanent resident
status to aliens from certain countries
who meet specified eligibility require-
ments, and for other purposes.
S. 893
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 893, a bill to require the President to
develop a strategy to ensure the secu-
rity of next generation mobile tele-
communications systems and infra-
structure in the United States and to
assist allies and strategic partners in
maximizing the security of next gen-
eration mobile telecommunications
systems, infrastructure, and software,
and for other purposes.
S. 897
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 897, a bill to amend title 11,
United States Code, with respect to the
definition of ‘‘family farmer’’.
S. 904
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
904, a bill to authorize the Department
of Labor’s voluntary protection pro-
gram.
S. 916
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
916, a bill to improve Federal efforts
with respect to the prevention of ma-
ternal mortality, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 917
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 917, a bill to direct the
Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
Communications and Information to
prepare and submit periodic reports to
Congress on the role of telecommuni-
cations in hate crimes.
S. 932
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. CARDIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 932, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to pro-
vide for the tax-exempt financing of
certain government-owned buildings.
S. 997
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added
as cosponsors of S. 997, a bill to recog-
nize and honor the service of individ-
uals who served in the United States
Cadet Nurse Corps during World War II,
and for other purposes.
S. 998
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
998, a bill to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
expand support for police officer family
services, stress reduction, and suicide
prevention, and for other purposes.
S. 1007
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1007, a bill to amend the Horse
Protection Act to designate additional
unlawful acts under the Act, strength-
en penalties for violations of the Act,
improve Department of Agriculture en-
forcement of the Act, and for other
purposes.
S. 1039
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1039, a bill to limit the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.039 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2818 May 14, 2019
use of funds for kinetic military oper-
ations in or against Iran.
S. 1049
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1049, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to ensure that members of
the Armed Forces and their families
have access to the contraception they
need in order to promote the health
and readiness of all members of the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes.
S. 1083
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1083, a bill to address the
fundamental injustice, cruelty, bru-
tality, and inhumanity of slavery in
the United States and the 13 American
colonies between 1619 and 1865 and to
establish a commission to study and
consider a national apology and pro-
posal for reparations for the institu-
tion of slavery, its subsequent de jure
and de facto racial and economic dis-
crimination against African-Ameri-
cans, and the impact of these forces on
living African-Americans, to make rec-
ommendations to the Congress on ap-
propriate remedies, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1088
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1088, a bill to amend the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to require
the President to set a minimum annual
goal for the number of refugees to be
admitted, and for other purposes.
S. 1172
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH) and the Senator from
Montana (Mr. TESTER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1172, a bill to require
full funding of part A of title I of the
Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 and the Individuals with
Disabilities Education Act.
S. 1188
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1188, a bill to promote United States-
Mongolia trade by authorizing duty-
free treatment for certain imports
from Mongolia, and for other purposes.
S. 1191
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1191, a bill to reauthorize sec-
tion 340H of the Public Health Service
Act to continue to encourage the ex-
pansion, maintenance, and establish-
ment of approved graduate medical
residency programs at qualified teach-
ing health centers, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1200
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. KAINE) and the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. UDALL) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1200, a bill to create pro-
tections for depository institutions
that provide financial services to can-
nabis-related legitimate businesses and
service providers for such businesses,
and for other purposes.
S. 1208
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1208, a bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 with respect to payments to cer-
tain public safety officers who have be-
come permanently and totally disabled
as a result of personal injuries sus-
tained in the line of duty, and for other
purposes.
S. 1227
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1227, a bill to require the
Federal Trade Commission to study the
role of intermediaries in the pharma-
ceutical supply chain and provide Con-
gress with appropriate policy rec-
ommendations, and for other purposes.
S. 1231
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1231, a bill to reauthorize the Bul-
letproof Vest Partnership Grant Pro-
gram.
S. 1246
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1246, a bill to extend the protec-
tions of the Fair Housing Act to per-
sons suffering discrimination on the
basis of sexual orientation or gender
identity, and for other purposes.
S. 1253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1253, a bill to apply requirements
relating to delivery sales of cigarettes
to delivery sales of electronic nicotine
delivery systems, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1365
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1365, a bill to provide
emergency assistance to States, terri-
tories, Tribal nations, and local areas
affected by the opioid epidemic and to
make financial assistance available to
States, territories, Tribal nations,
local areas, and public or private non-
profit entities to provide for the devel-
opment, organization, coordination,
and operation of more effective and
cost efficient systems for the delivery
of essential services to individuals with
substance use disorder and their fami-
lies.
S. 1394
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN), the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) and the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1394, a bill to
provide collective bargaining rights for
public safety officers employed by
States or their political subdivisions.
S. 1409
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1409, a bill to enhance the
ability of the Office of the National
Ombudsman to assist small businesses
in meeting regulatory requirements
and develop outreach initiatives to pro-
mote awareness of the services the Of-
fice of the National Ombudsman pro-
vides, and for other purposes.
S. 1426
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1426, a bill to amend the Endan-
gered Species Act of 1973 to establish a
procedure for approval of certain set-
tlements.
S. 1429
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) and the Senator from
Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1429, a bill to amend
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to
require publication on the Internet of
the basis for determinations that spe-
cies are endangered species or threat-
ened species, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 80
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 80, a resolution estab-
lishing the John S. McCain III Human
Rights Commission.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 120, a resolution opposing ef-
forts to delegitimize the State of Israel
and the Global Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions Movement targeting
Israel.
S. RES. 183
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 183, a resolution re-
affirming the vital role of the United
States-Japan alliance in promoting
peace, stability, and prosperity in the
Indo-Pacific region and beyond, and for
other purposes.
S. RES. 184
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 184, a resolution condemning the
Easter Sunday terrorist attacks in Sri
Lanka, offering sincere condolences to
the victims, to their families and
friends, and to the people and nation of
Sri Lanka, and expressing solidarity
and support for Sri Lanka.
S. RES. 188
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.041 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2819
May 14, 2019
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 188, a resolution encouraging a
swift transfer of power by the military
to a civilian-led political authority in
the Republic of the Sudan, and for
other purposes.
S. RES. 189
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 189, a resolution
condemning all forms of antisemitism.
S. RES. 203
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 203, a resolution rec-
ognizing the 80th anniversary of the
Aircraft Owners and Pilots Associa-
tion.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Mr. ENZI, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BARRASSO, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. CRAMER, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms.
HIRONO, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
TESTER, Ms. COLLINS, Ms. HAS-
SAN, and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 1438. A bill to amend title 39,
United States Code, to extend the au-
thority of the United States Postal
Service to issue a semipostal to raise
funds for breast cancer research; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to introduce, along with my
friend Senator ENZI, the ‘‘Breast Can-
cer Research Stamp Reauthorization
Act.’’
Breast cancer remains one of the
most commonly diagnosed cancers in
women. One in eight women will re-
ceive a diagnosis during her lifetime—
and more than 40,000 women will die
from the disease this year.
The Breast Cancer Research Stamp
was first issued in 1998 and has since
raised almost $90 million for research
into new, innovative treatments for
breast cancer.
A 2018 study that was partially fund-
ed by revenue from stamp sales found
that most women diagnosed with a
common early-stage breast cancer do
not actually need chemotherapy as a
part of their cancer treatment. Results
from this study are expected to spare
up to 70,000 U.S. patients a year from
the cost and side effects associated
with chemotherapy without it hurting
their chances of beating the disease.
Think about it. Simply purchasing a
stamp could help spare thousands of
women the pain they may experience
when undergoing chemotherapy and
side effects that range from hair loss to
long-term organ damage. Not to men-
tion the expense, with one basic round
of chemo costing anywhere from $10,000
to $100,000. The stamp’s ability to fund
critical research like this study helps
us take big steps forward in treating
breast cancer for only a few more cents
over the standard price of sending a
letter.
As we come back to work after Moth-
er’s Day, I invite the Senate to pause
and remember all the women who have
faced a diagnosis of breast cancer, not
knowing what the outcome would be. I
applaud as well the family and friends
who have tirelessly supported them.
The Breast Cancer Stamp currently
costs 65 cents, 10 cents more than a tra-
ditional Forever stamp. The additional
10 cents helps support breast cancer re-
search at the National Institutes of
Health and the Department of De-
fense’s Medical Research Program. Our
bill would reauthorize the stamp for 8
more years through 2027.
For these women and their families,
this stamp is as meaningful to them as
it is impactful to how we combat the
disease now and in the future.
I am honored to be joined by Sen-
ators BALDWIN, BARRASSO, CAPITO,
CASEY, CRAMER, COLLINS, DAINES,
DUCKWORTH, DURBIN, GRASSLEY, HAS-
SAN, HIRONO, HYDE-SMITH, KLOBUCHAR,
ROSEN, SCHATZ, SHAHEEN, STABENOW,
and TESTER.
I am very grateful for supporters of
this bill, including the American Can-
cer Society Cancer Action Network,
the American College of Surgeons,
Susan G. Komen, the American Asso-
ciation for Cancer Research, the Amer-
ican College of Obstetrics and Gyne-
cologists, the Breast Cancer Research
Foundation, and Are You Dense, Inc.
As we celebrate the mothers in our
lives this week, I urge my colleagues to
join us in taking meaningful action to
improve women’s health.
Thank you Mr. President and I yield
the floor.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 1442. A bill to amend the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 to strengthen school security; to
the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, as we
pause this week to remember the 10
people who lost their lives and the 13
people who were wounded 1 year ago,
we should reflect on what has changed
but also on what still needs to be done
to stop this epidemic of mass shootings
and school shootings, in particular.
Last year I was very proud that Con-
gress authorized nearly $1 billion in
school safety funding—legislation that
I was a cosponsor of. That is nearly $1
billion that schools can use to improve
school safety, including hardening
doors so that shooters can’t shoot
through the school doors anymore,
shrinking the number of entrances and
exits, installing metal detectors, and
hiring armed police officers to keep our
kids safe. That was an important first
step, but we need to do more.
That is why I am reintroducing this
week two important bills. First, I am
reintroducing legislation to authorize
more funding for school safety and to
enable greater targeting of the felons
and fugitives who try to buy firearms
illegally. If a felon or fugitive tries to
purchase a firearm illegally, that felon
or fugitive should be prosecuted and
they should be put in Federal jail.
In 2013, my first year in the Senate, I
introduced legislation with my friend
Senator GRASSLEY from Iowa to create
a gun crime task force at the Federal
Department of Justice to ensure that
Federal convictions are in the national
database and to direct the Department
of Justice to prosecute the felons and
fugitives who try to illegally buy guns
and to put them in jail before they can
take the lives of more innocents.
Sadly, cynically, Senate Democrats
filibustered that legislation. They pre-
vented it from passing into law by de-
manding a 60-vote threshold.
In light of the tragedies of Santa Fe,
Parkland, and Highlands Ranch High
School, just last week, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in making this com-
monsense bill law in this Congress.
Let’s direct law enforcement resources
to stop violent criminals before they
commit more heinous murders.
I am also reintroducing the bipar-
tisan School Security Enhancement
Act with Democratic Senator DOUG
JONES, which would allow local com-
munities to utilize student support and
academic enrichment grants to rein-
force school safety infrastructure and
technology. Installing metal detectors,
bulletproof doors and windows, and es-
tablishing an efficient system for com-
municating important information to
law enforcement and to parents are all
important steps in improving school
safety.
I hope we can join together and pass
these bills so that our students are
safer, and so we can do more to prevent
future mass shootings.
What happened in Santa Fe a year
ago was a tragedy. On the night of the
shooting, there was a candlelight pray-
er vigil in the community at a public
park in downtown Santa Fe. Even as
you saw families grieving and in un-
speakable agony, and their hearts
breaking, you also saw people coming
together. When I was at the vigil that
night, as you wept and mourned with
students and parents experiencing the
ultimate agony, you saw at the same
time students and parents in the com-
munity leaning on each other, holding
each other, holding each other up,
praying alongside each other, praying
with each other, and giving thanks for
the heroism and strength. I think that
is the only way a community makes it
out of a tragedy like that.
The last year has been an extremely
difficult year for the Santa Fe families
and the community. That morning is
indelibly marked onto that commu-
nity. At the same time, they have been
able to lean on each other, to rely on
each other, to support each other, and
to lift each other up in prayer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.042 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2820 May 14, 2019
I want to conclude by saying to the
families in Santa Fe: We are with you.
We support you. We love you, and we
are there for you.
To my colleagues in Congress, we
need to unite together to make our
schools safer, to prosecute felons and
fugitives before they commit acts of
murder, and to do everything to stop
this horrific mass shooting epidemic.
We need to do it now. End the partisan
battles. Focus on the bad guys, and
stop them before more lives and inno-
cents are taken.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. LEAHY, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. CARPER, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. CARDIN, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. BENNET, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. REED, Ms. WARREN,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. KAINE, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. HEINRICH, and
Mr. KING):
S. 1445. A bill to provide a coordi-
nated regional response to manage ef-
fectively the endemic violence and hu-
manitarian crisis in El Salvador, Gua-
temala, and Honduras; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1445
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Central America Reform and Enforce-
ment Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
TITLE I—ADVANCING REFORMS IN CEN-
TRAL AMERICA TO ADDRESS THE FAC-
TORS DRIVING MIGRATION
Subtitle A—Strengthening the Capacity of
Central American Governments To Protect
and Provide for Their Own People
Sec. 111. United States Strategy for Engage-
ment in Central America.
Sec. 112. Authorization of appropriations for
United States Strategy for En-
gagement in Central America.
Sec. 113. Strengthening the rule of law and
combating corruption.
Sec. 114. Combating criminal violence and
improving citizen security.
Sec. 115. Tackling extreme poverty and ad-
vancing economic development.
Subtitle B—Conditions, Limitations, and
Certifications on United States Assistance
Sec. 121. Assistance funding available with-
out condition.
Sec. 122. Conditions on assistance related to
combating, smuggling, and pro-
viding for screening and safety
of migrants.
Sec. 123. Conditions on assistance related to
progress on specific issues.
Sec. 124. Additional limitations.
Sec. 125. Restrictions on reprogramming.
Subtitle C—Effectively Coordinating United
States Engagement in Central America
Sec. 131. United States Coordinator for En-
gagement in Central America.
Subtitle D—United States Leadership for
Engaging International Donors and Partners
Sec. 141. Requirement for strategy to secure
support of international donors
and partners.
TITLE II—CRACKING DOWN ON CRIMINAL
GANGS, CARTELS, AND COMPLICIT OF-
FICIALS
Subtitle A—Strengthening Cooperation
Among Law Enforcement Agencies To Tar-
get Smugglers and Traffickers
Sec. 211. Enhanced international coopera-
tion to combat human smug-
gling and trafficking.
Sec. 212. Enhanced investigation and pros-
ecution of human smuggling
and trafficking.
Sec. 213. Information campaign on dangers
of irregular migration.
Subtitle B—Strengthening the Ability of the
United States Government To Crack Down
on Smugglers, Traffickers, and Drug Car-
tels
Sec. 221. Enhanced penalties for organized
smuggling schemes.
Sec. 222. Expanding financial sanctions on
narcotics trafficking and
money laundering.
Sec. 223. Support for FBI transnational anti-
gang task forces for countering
criminal gangs.
Sec. 224. Sense of Congress regarding the ex-
pansion of targeted sanctions
related to corruption and
human rights abuses.
Subtitle C—Creating New Penalties for Hin-
dering Immigration, Border, and Customs
Controls
Sec. 231. Hindering immigration, border, and
customs controls.
TITLE III—MINIMIZING BORDER CROSS-
INGS BY EXPANDING PROCESSING OF
REFUGEE CHILDREN AND FAMILIES IN-
COUNTRY AND IN THE REGION AND BY
STRENGTHENING REPATRIATION INI-
TIATIVES
Subtitle A—Providing Alternative Safe
Havens in Mexico and the Region
Sec. 311. Strengthening internal asylum sys-
tems in Mexico and other coun-
tries.
Subtitle B—Expanding Refugee Processing
in Mexico and Central America for Third
Country Resettlement
Sec. 321. Expanding refugee processing in
Mexico and Central America for
third country resettlement.
Subtitle C—Establishing Legal Channels to
the United States
Sec. 331. Program to adjust the status of
certain vulnerable refugees
from Central America.
TITLE IV—MONITORING AND SUP-
PORTING UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN
CHILDREN AFTER PROCESSING AT THE
BORDER
Sec. 401. Definitions; authorization of appro-
priations.
Sec. 402. Family reunification.
Sec. 403. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle A—Strengthening the Government’s
Ability To Oversee the Safety and Well-
being of Children and Support Children
Forcibly Separated From Their Families
Sec. 411. Health care in shelters for unac-
companied alien children.
Sec. 412. Services to unaccompanied alien
children after placement.
Sec. 413. Background checks to ensure the
safe placement of unaccom-
panied alien children.
Sec. 414. Responsibility of sponsor for immi-
gration court compliance and
child well-being.
Sec. 415. Monitoring unaccompanied alien
children.
Subtitle B—Funding to States and School
Districts; Supporting Education and Safety
Sec. 421. Funding to States to conduct State
criminal checks and child abuse
and neglect checks.
Sec. 422. Unaccompanied alien children in
schools.
TITLE V—ENSURING ORDERLY AND HU-
MANE MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN
AND FAMILIES SEEKING PROTECTION
Subtitle A—Providing a Fair and Efficient
Legal Process for Children and Vulnerable
Families Seeking Asylum
Sec. 511. Court appearance compliance and
legal orientation.
Sec. 512. Fair day in court for kids.
Sec. 513. Access to counsel and legal orienta-
tion at detention facilities.
Sec. 514. Report on access to counsel.
Sec. 515. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Reducing Significant Delays in
Immigration Court
Sec. 521. Eliminate immigration court back-
logs.
Sec. 522. Improved training for immigration
judges and members of the
Board of Immigration Appeals.
Sec. 523. New technology to improve court
efficiency.
Subtitle C—Reducing the Likelihood of
Repeated Migration to the United States
Sec. 531. Establishing reintegration and
monitoring services for repa-
triating children.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Since 2008, incidents of murder, other
violent crime, and corruption perpetrated by
criminal networks, armed gangs and groups,
and illicit trafficking organizations have re-
mained at alarming levels in El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Honduras.
(2) In 2017, El Salvador and Honduras—
(A) continued to be among the most vio-
lent countries in Latin America and the
world, with 60 and 42 murders for every
100,000 people, respectively; and
(B) were characterized by a high preva-
lence of gang-related violence and crimes in-
volving sexual and gender-based violence.
(3) El Salvador and Honduras are both
among the top 3 countries in the world with
the highest child homicide rates, with more
than 22 and 32 deaths per 100,000 children re-
spectively, according to the nongovern-
mental organization Save the Children.
(4) A November 2017 report by the United
Nations Development Programme and UN
Women stated that femicide ‘‘is taking on a
devastating magnitude and trend in Central
America, where 2 in every 3 women mur-
dered, are killed because of their gender.’’.
(5) Since 2014, elevated numbers of unac-
companied minors, women, and other vulner-
able individuals have fled violence in Central
America’s Northern Triangle and left for the
United States in search of protection.
(6) Unaccompanied minors emigrating
from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.029 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2821
May 14, 2019
cite violence, forced gang recruitment, ex-
tortion, poverty, and lack of opportunity as
reasons for leaving their home countries.
(7) Challenges to the rule of law in the
Northern Triangle continue to be exacer-
bated by high levels of impunity related to
murders and violent crime. In 2015, approxi-
mately 95 percent of murders taking place in
Honduras and El Salvador remained unre-
solved.
(8) The presence of major drug trafficking
organizations in the Northern Triangle con-
tributes to violence, corruption, and crimi-
nality. According to the Department of
State’s 2017 International Narcotics Control
Strategy Report, El Salvador, Guatemala,
and Honduras continue to be transit coun-
tries for illicit drugs originating from coun-
tries in South America that are destined for
the United States.
(9) In June 2018, the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights found that in El Salvador, a pattern
of behavior among security personnel and
weak institutional responses may have re-
sulted in extrajudicial executions and exces-
sive use of force, with official figures indi-
cating an alarming increase in the number of
persons (alleged gang-members) who have
been killed by security personnel.
(10) Widespread public sector corruption in
the Northern Triangle undermines economic
and social development and directly affects
regional political stability.
(11) Human rights defenders, journalists,
trade unionists, social leaders, and LGBT ac-
tivists in the Northern Triangle face dire
conditions, as evidenced by—
(A) the March 2016 murder of the promi-
nent Honduran environmental activist,
Berta Caceres; and
(B) the ongoing targeted killing of civil so-
ciety leaders in all 3 countries in the North-
ern Triangle.
(12) The Northern Triangle struggles with
high levels of economic insecurity. In 2016,
60.9 percent of Hondurans and 38 percent of
Salvadorans lived below the poverty line. In
2014, 59.3 percent of Guatemalans lived below
the poverty line.
(13) Weak investment climates, low levels
of tax collection, and low levels of edu-
cational opportunity are barriers to inclu-
sive economic growth and social develop-
ment in the Northern Triangle.
(14) In January 2018 and May 2018, the
Trump Administration announced the termi-
nation of Temporary Protected Status des-
ignations for Honduras and El Salvador, re-
spectively, which would affect more than
500,000 individuals and their United States
citizen children who may have to return to
dangerous conditions in those countries.
(15) In a November 2017 letter to the De-
partment of Homeland Security, then Sec-
retary of State Rex Tillerson warned that as
a result of ending Temporary Protected Sta-
tus, the Governments of El Salvador and
Honduras ‘‘may take retaliatory actions
counter to our long-standing national secu-
rity and economic interests like withdrawing
their counternarcotics and anti-gang co-
operation with the United States, reducing
their willingness to accept the return of
their deported citizens, or refraining from ef-
forts to control illegal migration.’’.
SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) United States support is necessary to
address irregular migration by addressing
the violence and humanitarian crisis in the
Northern Triangle, which has resulted in the
elevated numbers of Central American unac-
companied children, women, and other refu-
gees and migrants arriving at the South-
western border of the United States;
(2) the violence and humanitarian crisis is
linked to the severe challenges posed by—
(A) high rates of homicide, sexual and gen-
der-based violence, and violent crime per-
petrated by armed criminal actors, including
drug trafficking organizations and criminal
gangs, such as the MS-13 and 18th Street
gangs;
(B) endemic corruption carried out by or-
ganized networks and the weak rule of law,
including the limited institutional capacity
of national police forces, public prosecutors,
and court systems; and
(C) the limited capabilities and lack of po-
litical will on the part of Northern Triangle
governments to establish the rule of law,
guarantee security, and ensure the well-
being of their citizens;
(3) the United States must work with
international partners—
(A) to address the complicated conditions
in the Northern Triangle that contribute to
the violence and humanitarian crisis; and
(B) to guarantee protections for vulnerable
populations, particularly women and chil-
dren, fleeing violence in the region;
(4) the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity
in the Northern Triangle, which was devel-
oped by the Governments of El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Honduras, with the tech-
nical assistance of the Inter-American De-
velopment Bank, represents a comprehensive
approach to address the complex situation in
the Northern Triangle;
(5) the United States Strategy for Engage-
ment in Central America, as first developed
by President Obama and Vice President
Biden, provides important support for the
Alliance for Prosperity and other United
States national security priorities, including
rule of law and anti-corruption initiatives;
(6) President Trump’s decision to reduce
United States foreign assistance to El Sal-
vador, Guatemala, and Honduras from fund-
ing levels set in fiscal years 2017 and 2018—
(A) poses a serious risk to United States
national security; and
(B) will damage the efforts of the United
States to address the underlying conditions
causing citizens of El Salvador, Guatemala,
and Honduras to flee their homelands and
migrate to the United States;
(7) the Trump Administration’s proposed
cuts in United States foreign assistance for
Central America for fiscal year 2020, if imple-
mented, would undermine the United States
ability to work with the Governments of El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to ad-
dress critical United States national secu-
rity priorities and the factors driving migra-
tion to the United States;
(8) the Trump Administration must reverse
its decision to terminate the Temporary Pro-
tected Status designations for El Salvador
and Honduras in order to prevent negative
consequences to United States foreign policy
objectives;
(9) the United States should partner with
the Government of Mexico—
(A) to strengthen Mexico’s internal asylum
system; and
(B) ensure that Mexico upholds inter-
national and humanitarian standards;
(10) combating corruption in the Northern
Triangle must remain a critical priority and
the United States must continue its public
and financial support for the United Nation’s
Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala
(CICIG) and the Organization of American
States’ Mission to Support the Fight Against
Corruption and Impunity in Honduras
(MACCIH) as part of this effort;
(11) the Government of Guatemala should
reverse its efforts—
(A) to terminate CICIG’s mandate; and
(B) to undermine the effectiveness of
CICIG’s ongoing operations, including pro-
hibiting the current CICIG Commissioner
from entering the country; and
(12) it is imperative for the United States
to implement a multi-year strategy and sus-
tain a long-term commitment to addressing
the underlying factors causing Central
Americans to flee their countries by
strengthening citizen security, the rule of
law, democratic governance, the protection
of human rights, and inclusive economic
growth in the Northern Triangle.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 3(4) of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
(2) NORTHERN TRIANGLE.—The term ‘‘North-
ern Triangle’’ means El Salvador, Guate-
mala, and Honduras.
(3) PLACEMENT.—The term ‘‘placement’’
means the placement of an unaccompanied
alien child with a sponsor.
(4) PLAN.—The term ‘‘Plan’’ means the
Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the
Northern Triangle.
(5) SPONSOR.—The term ‘‘sponsor’’ means a
sponsor referred to in section 462(b)(4) of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
279(b)(4)).
(6) UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILD.—The term
‘‘unaccompanied alien child’’ has the mean-
ing given the term in section 462(g) of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
279(g)).
TITLE I—ADVANCING REFORMS IN CEN-
TRAL AMERICA TO ADDRESS THE FAC-
TORS DRIVING MIGRATION
Subtitle A—Strengthening the Capacity of
Central American Governments To Protect
and Provide for Their Own People
SEC. 111. UNITED STATES STRATEGY FOR EN-
GAGEMENT IN CENTRAL AMERICA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State shall submit to Con-
gress a 5-year, interagency strategy, titled
‘‘the United States Strategy for Engagement
in Central America’’, to advance reforms in
Central American countries that address the
factors driving migration.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The strategy under sub-
section (a) shall include efforts to—
(1) strengthen the rule of law, improve ac-
cess to justice, and bolster the effectiveness
and independence of judicial systems and
public prosecutors’ offices, and the effective-
ness of civilian police forces;
(2) combat corruption and improve public
sector transparency;
(3) confront and counter the violence and
crime perpetrated by armed criminal gangs,
illicit trafficking organizations, and orga-
nized crime;
(4) disrupt money laundering operations
and the illicit financial operations of crimi-
nal networks, armed gangs, illicit traf-
ficking organizations, and human smugglers;
(5) strengthen democratic governance and
promote greater respect for internationally
recognized human rights, labor rights, funda-
mental freedoms, and the media, including
through the protection of human rights and
environmental defenders, other civil society
activists, and journalists;
(6) enhance the capability of Central Amer-
ican governments to protect and provide for
vulnerable and at-risk populations;
(7) address the underlying causes of pov-
erty and inequality;
(8) address the constraints to inclusive eco-
nomic growth in Central America;
(9) prevent and respond to endemic levels
of sexual and gender-based violence; and
(10) enhance accountability for govern-
ment officials, including security force per-
sonnel, credibly alleged to have committed
gross violations of human rights or other
crimes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2822 May 14, 2019
(c) COORDINATION AND CONSULTATION.—In
formulating the strategy under subsection
(a), the Secretary of State shall—
(1) coordinate with the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Attorney
General, and the Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment; and
(2) consult with the Director of National
Intelligence.
(d) SUPPORT FOR CENTRAL AMERICAN EF-
FORTS.—To the degree feasible, the strategy
under subsection (a) shall support or com-
plement efforts being carried out by the Gov-
ernments of El Salvador, of Guatemala, and
of Honduras under the Plan, in coordination
with the Inter-American Development Bank
and other bilateral and multilateral donors.
(e) PRIORITIZATION.—The strategy under
subsection (a) shall prioritize programs and
initiatives to address the key factors in Cen-
tral American countries that contribute to
the flight of unaccompanied alien children
and other individuals to the United States.
SEC. 112. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR UNITED STATES STRATEGY FOR
ENGAGEMENT IN CENTRAL AMER-
ICA.
There are authorized to be appropriated
$1,500,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 to carry out
the strategy described in section 111.
SEC. 113. STRENGTHENING THE RULE OF LAW
AND COMBATING CORRUPTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In advancing the strategy
described in section 111, of the amounts au-
thorized to be appropriated pursuant to sec-
tion 112, $550,000,000 are authorized to be
made available to the Secretary of State and
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development to
strengthen the rule of law, combat corrup-
tion, consolidate democratic governance,
and defend human rights.
(b) ASSISTANCE FOR CENTRAL AMERICA.—
The Secretary and the Administrator may
use the amounts made available under sub-
section (a) to provide assistance for Central
American countries through the activities
described in subsection (c).
(c) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—Activities de-
scribed in this section include—
(1) strengthening the rule of law in Central
American countries by providing support
for—
(A) the Office of the Attorney General,
public prosecutors, judges, and courts in
each such country, including the enhance-
ment of their forensics capabilities and serv-
ices;
(B) reforms leading to independent, merit-
based, selection processes for judges and
prosecutors, independent internal controls,
and relevant ethics and professional train-
ing, including training on sexual and gender-
based violence;
(C) the improvement of victim and witness
protection and access to justice; and
(D) the reform and improvement of prison
facilities and management;
(2) combating corruption by providing sup-
port for—
(A) inspectors general and oversight insti-
tutions, including relevant training for in-
spectors and auditors;
(B) international commissions against im-
punity, including the International Commis-
sion Against Impunity in Guatemala and the
Support Mission Against Corruption and Im-
punity in Honduras;
(C) civil society watchdogs conducting
oversight of executive branch officials and
functions, police and security forces, and ju-
dicial officials and public prosecutors; and
(D) the enhancement of freedom of infor-
mation mechanisms;
(3) consolidating democratic governance by
providing support for—
(A) the reform of civil services, related
training programs, and relevant career laws
and processes that lead to independent,
merit-based, selection processes;
(B) national legislatures and their capacity
to conduct oversight of executive branch
functions;
(C) the reform and strengthening of polit-
ical party and campaign finance laws and
electoral tribunals; and
(D) local governments and their capacity
to provide critical safety, education, health,
and sanitation services to citizens; and
(4) defending human rights by providing
support for—
(A) human rights ombudsman offices;
(B) government protection programs that
provide physical protection to human rights
defenders, journalists, trade unionists, and
civil society activists at risk;
(C) civil society organizations that pro-
mote and defend human rights, freedom of
expression, freedom of the press, labor
rights, environmental protection, and LGBT
rights; and
(D) civil society organizations that address
sexual, domestic, and inter-partner violence
against women and protect victims of such
violence.
SEC. 114. COMBATING CRIMINAL VIOLENCE AND
IMPROVING CITIZEN SECURITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In advancing the strategy
described in section 111, of the amounts au-
thorized to be appropriated pursuant to sec-
tion 112, $550,000,000 are authorized to be
made available to the Secretary of State and
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development to
counter the violence and crime perpetrated
by armed criminal gangs, illicit trafficking
organizations, and human smugglers.
(b) ASSISTANCE FOR CENTRAL AMERICA.—
The Secretary and the Administrator may
use the amounts made available under sub-
section (a) to provide assistance for Central
American countries through the activities
described in subsection (c).
(c) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—Activities de-
scribed in this section include—
(1) professionalizing civilian police forces
by providing support for—
(A) the reform of personnel recruitment,
vetting and dismissal processes, including
the enhancement of polygraph capability for
use in such processes;
(B) inspectors general and oversight of-
fices, including relevant training for inspec-
tors and auditors, and independent oversight
mechanisms, as appropriate;
(C) community policing policies and pro-
grams;
(D) the establishment of special vetted
units;
(E) training and the development of proto-
cols regarding the appropriate use of force
and human rights;
(F) training on civilian intelligence collec-
tion (including safeguards for privacy and
basic civil liberties), investigative tech-
niques, forensic analysis, and evidence pres-
ervation;
(G) training on the management of com-
plex, multi-actor criminal cases; and
(H) equipment, such as nonintrusive in-
spection equipment;
(2) countering illicit trafficking by pro-
viding assistance to the civilian law enforce-
ment and armed forces of Central American
countries, including support for—
(A) the establishment of special vetted
units;
(B) the enhancement of intelligence collec-
tion capacity (including safeguards for pri-
vacy and basic civil liberties);
(C) the reform of personnel recruitment,
vetting, and dismissal processes, including
the enhancement of polygraph capability for
use in such processes; and
(D) port, airport, and border security sys-
tems, including—
(i) computer infrastructure and data man-
agement systems;
(ii) secure communications technologies;
(iii) nonintrusive inspection equipment;
(iv) radar and aerial surveillance equip-
ment;
(v) canine units; and
(vi) training on the equipment, tech-
nologies, and systems listed in clauses (i)
through (v);
(3) disrupting illicit financial networks, in-
cluding by providing support for—
(A) finance ministries, including the en-
hancement of the capacity to use financial
sanctions to block the assets of individuals
and organizations involved in money laun-
dering and the financing of armed criminal
gangs, illicit trafficking networks, human
smugglers, and organized crime;
(B) financial intelligence units, including
the establishment and enhancement of anti-
money laundering programs; and
(C) the reform of bank secrecy laws; and
(4) improving crime prevention by pro-
viding support for—
(A) educational initiatives to reduce sexual
and gender-based violence;
(B) the enhancement of police and judicial
capacity to identify, investigate, and pros-
ecute sexual and gender-based violence;
(C) the enhancement of programs for at-
risk and criminal-involved youth, including
the improvement of community centers
throughout El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras; and
(D) alternative livelihood programs.
(d) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) operational technology transferred to
governments in Central America for intel-
ligence or law enforcement purposes should
be used solely for the purposes for which the
technology was intended;
(2) the United States should take all nec-
essary steps to ensure that the use of oper-
ation technology described in paragraph (1)
is consistent with United States law, includ-
ing protections of freedom of expression,
freedom of movement, and freedom of asso-
ciation; and
(3) the assistance to Central American
armed forces described in subsection (c)(2)
should be limited to assistance that relates
to—
(A) the armed forces activities to combat
illicit maritime and riverine trafficking; and
(B) illicit trafficking occurring at national
borders.
SEC. 115. TACKLING EXTREME POVERTY AND AD-
VANCING ECONOMIC DEVELOP-
MENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated pursuant to section
112, $400,000,000 are authorized to be made
available to the Secretary of State and the
Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development to improve
economic development and the underlying
causes of poverty.
(b) ASSISTANCE FOR CENTRAL AMERICA.—
The Secretary and the Administrator may
use the amounts made available under sub-
section (a) to provide assistance for Central
American countries through the activities
described in subsection (c).
(c) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—Activities de-
scribed in this section include—
(1) strengthening human capital, including
by providing support for—
(A) workforce development and entrepre-
neurship training programs that are driven
by market demand, specifically programs
that prioritize women, at-risk youth, and
minorities;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2823
May 14, 2019
(B) improving early-grade literacy and the
improvement of primary and secondary
school curricula;
(C) relevant professional training for
teachers and educational administrators;
and
(D) educational policy reform and improve-
ment of education sector budgeting;
(2) enhancing economic competitiveness
and investment climate by providing support
for—
(A) small business development centers
and programs that strengthen supply chain
integration;
(B) trade facilitation and customs harmo-
nization programs;
(C) reducing energy costs through invest-
ments in clean technologies and the reform
of energy policies and regulations;
(D) the improvement of protections for in-
vestors, including dispute resolution and ar-
bitration mechanisms; and
(E) the improvement of labor and environ-
mental standards, in accordance with the
Dominican Republic–Central America Free
Trade Agreement;
(3) strengthening food security, including
by providing support for—
(A) small-scale agriculture, including—
(i) technical training;
(ii) initiatives that facilitate access to
credit; and
(iii) policies and programs that incentivize
government agencies and private institu-
tions to buy from local producers;
(B) agricultural value chain development
for farming communities;
(C) nutrition programs to reduce childhood
stunting rates; and
(D) investment in scientific research on
climate change and climate resiliency; and
(4) improving the state of fiscal and finan-
cial affairs, including by providing support
for—
(A) domestic revenue generation, including
programs to improve tax administration,
collection, and enforcement;
(B) strengthening public sector financial
management, including strategic budgeting
and expenditure tracking; and
(C) reform of customs and procurement
policies and processes.
Subtitle B—Conditions, Limitations, and
Certifications on United States Assistance
SEC. 121. ASSISTANCE FUNDING AVAILABLE
WITHOUT CONDITION.
The Secretary of State or the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, as appropriate, may
obligate up to 25 percent of the amounts ap-
propriated pursuant to section 112 that are
made available for the Governments of El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to carry
out the United States Strategy for Engage-
ment in Central America.
SEC. 122. CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE RELATED
TO COMBATING, SMUGGLING, AND
PROVIDING FOR SCREENING AND
SAFETY OF MIGRANTS.
(a) NOTIFICATION AND COOPERATION.—In ad-
dition to the amounts authorized to be made
available under sections 121 and 123, 25 per-
cent of the amounts appropriated pursuant
to section 112 that are made available for as-
sistance for the Governments of El Salvador,
of Guatemala, and of Honduras may only be
made available after the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Home-
land Security, consults with, and subse-
quently certifies and reports to the appro-
priate congressional committees that such
governments are taking effective steps, in
addition to steps taken during previous
years, to—
(1) combat human smuggling and traf-
ficking, including investigating, prosecuting,
and increasing penalties for individuals re-
sponsible for such crimes;
(2) improve border security and border
screening to detect and deter illicit smug-
gling and trafficking, while respecting the
rights of individuals fleeing violence and
seeking humanitarian protection asylum, in
accordance with international law;
(3) cooperate with United States Govern-
ment agencies and other governments in the
region to facilitate the safe and timely repa-
triation of migrants who do not qualify for
refugee or other protected status, in accord-
ance with international law;
(4) improve reintegration services, in open
partnership with civil society organizations,
for repatriated migrants in a manner that
ensures the safety and well-being of the indi-
vidual and reduces the likelihood of repeated
migration to the United States; and
(5) cooperate with the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees to improve pro-
tections for, and the processing of, vulner-
able populations, particularly women and
children fleeing violence.
SEC. 123. CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE RELATED
TO PROGRESS ON SPECIFIC ISSUES.
(a) EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION.—In addi-
tion to the amounts authorized to be obli-
gated under sections 121 and 122, 50 percent
of the amounts appropriated pursuant to sec-
tion 112 that are made available for assist-
ance for the Governments of El Salvador, of
Guatemala, and of Honduras may only be
made available after the Secretary consults
with, and subsequently certifies and reports
to, the appropriate congressional commit-
tees that such governments are taking effec-
tive steps in their respective countries, in
addition to steps taken during the previous
calendar year, to—
(1) combat corruption, including inves-
tigating and prosecuting government offi-
cials, military personnel, and civilian police
officers credibly alleged to be corrupt;
(2) implement reforms and strengthen the
rule of law, including increasing the capacity
and independence of the judiciary and public
prosecutors;
(3) counter the activities of armed criminal
gangs, illicit trafficking networks, and orga-
nized crime;
(4) establish and implement a plan to cre-
ate a professional, accountable civilian po-
lice force and curtail the role of the military
in internal policing;
(5) investigate and prosecute, through the
civilian justice system, military and police
personnel who are credibly alleged to have
violated human rights, and to ensure that
the military and the police are cooperating
in such cases;
(6) counter and prevent sexual and gender-
based violence;
(7) cooperate, as appropriate, with inter-
national human rights entities and inter-
national commissions against impunity, in-
cluding the United Nation’s Commission
Against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG), the
Organization of American States’ Mission to
Support the Fight Against Corruption and
Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH), and any
other similar entities that may be estab-
lished;
(8) implement electoral and political re-
forms, including reforms related to improv-
ing the transparency of financing political
campaigns and political parties;
(9) protect the right of political opposition
parties, journalists, trade unionists, human
rights defenders, and other civil society ac-
tivists to operate without interference;
(10) increase government revenues, includ-
ing by enhancing tax collection, strength-
ening customs agencies, and reforming pro-
curement processes;
(11) implement reforms to strengthen edu-
cational systems, vocational training pro-
grams, and programs for at-risk youth;
(12) resolve commercial disputes, including
the confiscation of real property, between
United States entities and the respective
governments; and
(13) implement a policy by which local
communities, civil society organizations (in-
cluding indigenous and marginalized groups),
and local governments are consulted in the
design, implementation, and evaluation of
the activities of the Plan that affect such
communities, organizations, or governments.
(b) ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS.—The Secretary
of State may not certify that the Govern-
ment of Guatemala is taking effective steps
to address the issues listed in subsection (a)
until after the Government of Guatemala—
(1) extends the mandate of the Inter-
national Commission against Impunity in
Guatemala (CICIG) beyond 2019; and
(2) permits the CICIG Commissioner and
CICIG staff to carry out their work with gov-
ernment obstruction.
(c) EXCEPTION.—The certification and re-
porting requirements under subsection (a)
and section 122(a) shall not apply to the
amounts appropriated pursuant to section
112 for assistance to the International Com-
mission against Impunity in Guatemala and
the Mission to Support the Fight against
Corruption and Impunity in Honduras.
SEC. 124. ADDITIONAL LIMITATIONS.
(a) DEPORTATIONS AND REPATRIATIONS.—
None of the amounts authorized to be appro-
priated pursuant to this title may be used or
transferred to any other Federal agency to
assist in the removal or repatriation of any
individual from a third country to his or her
country of origin or to another country.
(b) FUND TRANSFERS.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the Secretary of
State may not transfer amounts appro-
priated for the Department of State to any
account managed by the Department of
Homeland Security for the purpose of assist-
ing in the deportation or repatriation of any
foreign person from a third country to his or
her country of origin or to another country,
absent a specific authorization from Con-
gress for such transfer.
SEC. 125. RESTRICTIONS ON REPROGRAMMING.
(a) UNITED STATES STRATEGY FOR ENGAGE-
MENT IN CENTRAL AMERICA.—Amounts appro-
priated pursuant to section 112 may not be
reprogrammed for any activities other than
those authorized under this title.
(b) BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE AND
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR EL
SALVADOR, GUATEMALA, AND HONDURAS.—The
Secretary of State and the Administrator of
the United States Agency for International
Development may not reprogram amounts
made available for assistance for El Sal-
vador, of Guatemala, and of Honduras
under—
(1) titles III and IV of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2019 (division F of
Public Law 116–6);
(2) titles III and IV of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of
Public Law 115–141);
(3) titles III and IV of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of
Public Law 115–31); or
(4) titles III and IV of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of
Public Law 114–113).
Subtitle C—Effectively Coordinating United
States Engagement in Central America
SEC. 131. UNITED STATES COORDINATOR FOR EN-
GAGEMENT IN CENTRAL AMERICA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2824 May 14, 2019
the President shall designate a senior offi-
cial to coordinate all of the Federal Govern-
ment’s efforts, including coordination with
international partners—
(1) to strengthen citizen security, the rule
of law, and economic prosperity in Central
America; and
(2) to protect vulnerable populations in the
region.
(b) SUPERVISION.—The official designated
under subsection (a) shall report directly to
the President.
(c) DUTIES.—The official designated under
subsection (a) shall coordinate all of the ef-
forts, activities, and programs related to
United States Strategy for Engagement in
Central America, including—
(1) coordinating with the Department of
State, the Department of Justice (including
the Federal Bureau of Investigation), the De-
partment of Homeland Security, the intel-
ligence community, and international part-
ners regarding United States efforts to dis-
mantle and disrupt armed criminal gangs, il-
licit trafficking networks, and organized
crime responsible for high levels of violence,
extortion, and corruption in Central Amer-
ica;
(2) coordinating with the Department of
State, the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and international
partners regarding United States efforts to
prevent and mitigate the effects of violent
criminal gangs and transnational criminal
organizations on vulnerable Central Amer-
ican populations, including women and chil-
dren;
(3) coordinating with the Department of
State, the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and international partners regarding
United States efforts to counter human
smugglers illegally transporting Central
American migrants to the United States;
(4) coordinating with the Department of
State, the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and international
partners, including the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, to increase pro-
tections for vulnerable Central American
populations, improve refugee processing, and
strengthen asylum and migration systems
throughout the region;
(5) coordinating with the Department of
State, the Department of Defense, the De-
partment of Justice (including the Drug En-
forcement Administration), the Department
of the Treasury, the intelligence community,
and international partners regarding United
States efforts to combat illicit narcotics
traffickers, interdict transshipments of il-
licit narcotics, and disrupt the financing of
the illicit narcotics trade;
(6) coordinating with the Department of
State, the Department of the Treasury, the
Department of Justice, the intelligence com-
munity, the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and international
partners regarding United States efforts to
combat corruption, money laundering, and
illicit financial networks;
(7) coordinating with the Department of
State, the Department of Justice, the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, and international partners regarding
United States efforts to strengthen the rule
of law, democratic governance, and human
rights protections; and
(8) coordinating with the Department of
State, the Department of Agriculture, the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment, the Overseas Private Investment
Corporation, the United States Trade and
Development Agency, the Department of
Labor, and international partners, including
the Inter-American Development Bank, to
strengthen the foundation for inclusive eco-
nomic growth and improve food security, in-
vestment climate, and protections for labor
rights.
(d) CONSULTATION.—The official designated
under subsection (a) shall consult with Con-
gress, multilateral organizations and institu-
tions, foreign governments, and domestic
and international civil society organiza-
tions.
Subtitle D—United States Leadership for
Engaging International Donors and Partners
SEC. 141. REQUIREMENT FOR STRATEGY TO SE-
CURE SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL
DONORS AND PARTNERS.
(a) DEFINED TERM.—In this section, the
term ‘‘appropriate congressional commit-
tees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate;
(3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives; and
(4) the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(b) STRATEGY.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State shall submit a 3-year
strategy to the appropriate congressional
committees that—
(1) describes how the United States will se-
cure support from international donors and
regional partners (including Colombia and
Mexico) for the implementation of the Plan;
(2) identifies governments that are willing
to provide financial and technical assistance
for the implementation of the Plan and a de-
scription of such assistance; and
(3) identifies the financial and technical
assistance to be provided by multilateral in-
stitutions, including the Inter-American De-
velopment Bank, the World Bank, the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, the Andean Devel-
opment Corporation—Development Bank of
Latin America, and the Organization of
American States, and a description of such
assistance.
(c) DIPLOMATIC ENGAGEMENT AND COORDINA-
TION.—The Secretary of State, in coordina-
tion with the Secretary of the Treasury, as
appropriate, shall—
(1) carry out diplomatic engagement to se-
cure contributions of financial and technical
assistance from international donors and
partners in support of the Plan; and
(2) take all necessary steps to ensure effec-
tive cooperation among international donors
and partners supporting the Plan.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
submitting the strategy under subsection
(b), and annually thereafter, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the appro-
priate congressional committees that de-
scribes—
(1) the progress made in implementing the
strategy; and
(2) the financial and technical assistance
provided by international donors and part-
ners, including the multilateral institutions
listed in subsection (b)(3).
(e) BRIEFINGS.—Upon a request from 1 of
the appropriate congressional committees,
the Secretary of State shall provide a brief-
ing to such committee that describes the
progress made in implementing the strategy
submitted under subsection (b).
TITLE II—CRACKING DOWN ON CRIMINAL
GANGS, CARTELS, AND COMPLICIT OFFI-
CIALS
Subtitle A—Strengthening Cooperation
Among Law Enforcement Agencies To Tar-
get Smugglers and Traffickers
SEC. 211. ENHANCED INTERNATIONAL COOPERA-
TION TO COMBAT HUMAN SMUG-
GLING AND TRAFFICKING.
The Secretary of State, in coordination
with the heads of relevant Federal agencies,
shall expand partnership efforts with law en-
forcement entities in El Salvador, Guate-
mala, Honduras, and Mexico seeking to com-
bat human smuggling and trafficking in
those countries, including—
(1) the creation or expansion of
transnational criminal investigative units to
identify, disrupt, and prosecute human
smuggling and trafficking operations;
(2) participation by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and the Department of
Justice in the Bilateral Human Trafficking
Enforcement Initiative with their Mexican
law enforcement counterparts; and
(3) advanced training programs for inves-
tigators and prosecutors from El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico.
SEC. 212. ENHANCED INVESTIGATION AND PROS-
ECUTION OF HUMAN SMUGGLING
AND TRAFFICKING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall expand collaborative programs aimed
at investigating and prosecuting human
smugglers and traffickers targeting Central
American children and families and oper-
ating at the southwestern border of the
United States, including the continuation
and expansion of anti-trafficking coordina-
tion teams.
(b) HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS.—
The Secretary of Homeland Security, in con-
sultation with the Director of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, shall in-
crease the resources available to Homeland
Security Investigations to facilitate the ex-
pansion of its smuggling and trafficking in-
vestigations.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out sub-
sections (a) and (b).
SEC. 213. INFORMATION CAMPAIGN ON DANGERS
OF IRREGULAR MIGRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the heads of relevant
Federal agencies, shall design and imple-
ment public information campaigns in El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras—
(1) to disseminate information about the
dangers of travel across Mexico to the
United States; and
(2) to combat misinformation about United
States immigration law or policy; and
(3) to provide accurate information about
the right to seek asylum.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The information cam-
paigns implemented pursuant to subsection
(a) shall, to the greatest extent possible—
(1) be targeted at populations and local-
ities with high migration rates;
(2) be in local languages;
(3) employ a variety of communications
media; and
(4) be developed in consultation with pro-
gram officials at the Department of Home-
land Security, the Department of State, and
other government, nonprofit, or academic
entities in close contact with migrant popu-
lations from El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras, including repatriated migrants.
Subtitle B—Strengthening the Ability of the
United States Government To Crack Down
on Smugglers, Traffickers, and Drug Car-
tels
SEC. 221. ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR ORGA-
NIZED SMUGGLING SCHEMES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 274(a)(1)(B) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1324(a)(1)(B)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv) as
clauses (iv) and (v), respectively;
(2) by inserting after clause (ii) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(iii) in the case of a violation of subpara-
graph (A)(i) during and in relation to which
the person, while acting for profit or other
financial gain, knowingly directs or partici-
pates in an effort or scheme to assist or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2825
May 14, 2019
cause 10 or more persons (other than a par-
ent, spouse, sibling, or child of the offender)
to enter or to attempt to enter the United
States at the same time at a place other
than a designated port of entry or place
other than designated by the Secretary, be
fined under title 18, United States Code, im-
prisoned not more than 15 years, or both;’’;
and
(3) in clause (iv), as redesignated, by in-
serting ‘‘commits or attempts to commit
sexual assault of,’’ after ‘‘section 1365 of title
18, United States Code) to,’’.
(b) BULK CASH SMUGGLING.—Section
5332(b)(1) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘TERM OF IMPRISONMENT’’ and inserting ‘‘IN
GENERAL’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, fined under title 18, or
both’’ after ‘‘5 years’’.
SEC. 222. EXPANDING FINANCIAL SANCTIONS ON
NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING AND
MONEY LAUNDERING.
(a) FINANCIAL SANCTIONS EXPANSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury, the Attorney General, the Sec-
retary of State, the Secretary of Defense,
and the Director of Central Intelligence shall
expand investigations, intelligence collec-
tion, and analysis pursuant to the Foreign
Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act to in-
crease the identification and application of
sanctions against—
(A) significant foreign narcotics traf-
fickers, their organizations and networks;
and
(B) foreign persons who provide material,
financial, or technological support to such
traffickers, organizations, and networks.
(2) TARGETS.—The activities described in
paragraph (1) shall specifically target foreign
narcotics traffickers, their organizations and
networks, and the foreign persons who pro-
vide material, financial, or technological
support to such traffickers, organizations,
and networks that are present and operating
in Central America.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out sub-
section (a).
SEC. 223. SUPPORT FOR FBI TRANSNATIONAL
ANTI-GANG TASK FORCES FOR
COUNTERING CRIMINAL GANGS.
(a) TASK FORCE EXPANSION.—The Director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in co-
ordination with the Secretary of State, shall
expand the efforts of the Transnational Anti-
Gang Task Forces in El Salvador, Guate-
mala, and Honduras, including by—
(1) expanding transnational criminal inves-
tigations focused on criminal gangs in El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, such as
MS-13 and 18th Street;
(2) expanding training and partnership ef-
forts with Salvadoran, Guatemalan, and
Honduran law enforcement entities in order
to disrupt and dismantle criminal gangs,
both internationally and in their respective
countries;
(3) establishing or expanding special vetted
investigative units; and
(4) collecting and disseminating intel-
ligence to support related United States-
based investigations.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated, to
the Bureau of International Narcotics and
Law Enforcement Affairs, such sums as may
be necessary to carry out subsection (a).
SEC. 224. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE
EXPANSION OF TARGETED SANC-
TIONS RELATED TO CORRUPTION
AND HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the President should intensify targeting
of and impose sanctions regularly on a range
of foreign persons from or in Central Amer-
ica determined to be responsible for human
rights abuses, corruption-related mis-
conduct, and other misconduct identified
pursuant to the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act (22 U.S.C. 2656
note);
(2) the Director of National Intelligence, in
coordination with the Director of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency and other United
States intelligence agencies, as appropriate,
should expand intelligence collection and
analysis in support of the efforts described in
paragraph (1); and
(3) the efforts described in paragraph (1)
should specifically target foreign persons, in-
cluding foreign government officials,
complicit in acts that weaken, run counter
to, or undermine the strategy described in
section 111.
Subtitle C—Creating New Penalties for Hin-
dering Immigration, Border, and Customs
Controls
SEC. 231. HINDERING IMMIGRATION, BORDER,
AND CUSTOMS CONTROLS.
(a) IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT.—
The Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended by inserting
after section 274D the following:
‘‘SEC. 274E. HINDERING IMMIGRATION, BORDER,
AND CUSTOMS CONTROLS.
‘‘(a) ILLICIT SPOTTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful to
knowingly surveil, track, monitor, or trans-
mit the location, movement, or activities of
any officer or employee of a Federal, State,
or tribal law enforcement agency—
‘‘(A) with the intent to gain financially;
and
‘‘(B) in furtherance of any violation of the
immigration laws, the customs and trade
laws of the United States (as defined in sec-
tion 2 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade
Enforcement Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–
125)), any other Federal law relating to
transporting controlled substances, agri-
culture, or monetary instruments into the
United States, or any Federal law relating to
border controls measures of the United
States.
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
paragraph (1) shall be fined under title 18,
United States Code, imprisoned for not more
than 5 years, or both.
‘‘(b) DESTRUCTION OF UNITED STATES BOR-
DER CONTROLS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful to
knowingly and without lawful authoriza-
tion—
‘‘(A) destroy or significantly damage any
fence, barrier, sensor, camera, or other phys-
ical or electronic device deployed by the
Federal Government to control an inter-
national border of, or a port of entry to, the
United States; or
‘‘(B) otherwise seek to construct, excavate,
or make any structure intended to defeat,
circumvent or evade such a fence, barrier,
sensor camera, or other physical or elec-
tronic device deployed by the Federal Gov-
ernment to control an international border
of, or a port of entry to, the United States.
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
paragraph (1) shall be fined under title 18,
United States Code, imprisoned for not more
than 5 years, or both.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 274D the following:
‘‘Sec. 274E. Hindering immigration, border,
and customs controls.’’.
TITLE III—MINIMIZING BORDER CROSS-
INGS BY EXPANDING PROCESSING OF
REFUGEE CHILDREN AND FAMILIES IN-
COUNTRY AND IN THE REGION AND BY
STRENGTHENING REPATRIATION INI-
TIATIVES
Subtitle A—Providing Alternative Safe
Havens in Mexico and the Region
SEC. 311. STRENGTHENING INTERNAL ASYLUM
SYSTEMS IN MEXICO AND OTHER
COUNTRIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Home-
land Security, shall work with international
partners, including the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, to support and
provide technical assistance to strengthen
the domestic capacity of Mexico and other
countries in the region to provide asylum to
eligible children and families, in accordance
with international law and best practices,
by—
(1) establishing and expanding temporary
and long-term in-country reception centers
and shelter capacity to meet the humani-
tarian needs of those seeking asylum or
other forms of international protection;
(2) improving the asylum registration sys-
tem to ensure that all individuals seeking
asylum or other humanitarian protection—
(A) are provided with adequate information
about their rights, including their right to
seek protection;
(B) are properly screened for security, in-
cluding biographic and biometric capture;
(C) receive due process and meaningful ac-
cess to existing legal protections; and
(D) receive proper documents in order to
prevent fraud and ensure freedom of move-
ment and access to basic social services;
(3) creating or expanding a corps of trained
asylum officers capable of evaluating and de-
ciding individual asylum claims consistent
with international law and obligations; and
(4) developing the capacity to conduct best
interest determinations for unaccompanied
alien children to ensure that their needs are
properly met, which may include family re-
unification or resettlement in the United
States or another country based on inter-
national protection needs and the best inter-
ests of the child.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall sub-
mit a report that describes the plans of the
Secretary of State to assist in developing the
asylum processing capabilities described in
subsection (a) to—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(3) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate;
(4) the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate;
(5) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives;
(6) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(7) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives; and
(8) the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out this
section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2826 May 14, 2019
Subtitle B—Expanding Refugee Processing in
Mexico and Central America for Third
Country Resettlement
SEC. 321. EXPANDING REFUGEE PROCESSING IN
MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA
FOR THIRD COUNTRY RESETTLE-
MENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Home-
land Security, shall coordinate with the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refu-
gees to support and provide technical assist-
ance to the Government of Mexico and the
governments of other countries in the region
to increase access to global resettlement for
eligible children and families with protec-
tion needs, in accordance with international
law and best practices, by—
(1) establishing and expanding in-country
refugee reception centers to meet the hu-
manitarian needs of those seeking inter-
national protection;
(2) improving the refugee registration sys-
tem to ensure that all refugees—
(A) are provided with adequate information
about their rights, including their right to
seek protection;
(B) are properly screened for security, in-
cluding biographic and biometric capture;
(C) receive due process and meaningful ac-
cess to existing legal protections; and
(D) receive proper documents in order to
prevent fraud and ensure freedom of move-
ment and access to basic social services;
(3) creating or expanding a corps of trained
refugee officers capable of evaluating and de-
ciding individual claims for protection, con-
sistent with international law and obliga-
tions; and
(4) developing the capacity to conduct best
interest determinations for unaccompanied
alien children to ensure that—
(A) such children with international pro-
tection needs are properly registered; and
(B) their needs are properly met, which
may include family reunification or resettle-
ment in the United States or another coun-
try based on international protection needs
and the best interests of the child.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall sub-
mit a report to the committees listed in sec-
tion 311(b) that describes the plans of the
Secretary of State to assist in developing the
refugee processing capabilities described in
subsection (a).
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the conditions in Mexico, as of the date
of the enactment of this Act, do not meet
the necessary threshold for the United
States Government to sign a safe third coun-
try agreement with the Government of Mex-
ico; and
(2) individuals of any nationality, who
enter the United States from Mexico and re-
quest humanitarian protection, such as asy-
lum, in the United States—
(A) are not subject to section 235(b)(2)(C) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1225(b)(2)(C)); and
(B) cannot be returned to Mexico while
their request for humanitarian protection is
pending.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out sub-
section (a).
Subtitle C—Establishing Legal Channels to
the United States
SEC. 331. PROGRAM TO ADJUST THE STATUS OF
CERTAIN VULNERABLE REFUGEES
FROM CENTRAL AMERICA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) REFUGEE STATUS.—The term ‘‘refugee
status’’ has the meaning given the term in
section 101(a)(42) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), except
that the alien may apply inside his or her
country of nationality if there is a des-
ignated application processing center
present.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to establish a refugee processing program
for nationals of El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras to respond to country conditions
and the growing need to provide an alter-
native to the dangerous journey to the
United States of America.
(c) ADMISSION OF ELIGIBLE CENTRAL AMER-
ICAN ALIENS AS REFUGEES.—Notwithstanding
the numerical limitations set forth in sec-
tions 201, 202, and 207 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151, 1152, and 1157),
the Secretary shall adjust the status of an
alien who is a national of El Salvador, Gua-
temala, or Honduras to that of an alien ad-
mitted as a refugee if the alien—
(1) applies for such refugee status at a Des-
ignated Application Processing Center (as
defined in subsection (e)); and
(2) is eligible under subsection (d).
(d) CENTRAL AMERICANS ELIGIBLE FOR REF-
UGEE ADMISSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Admission as a refugee or
adjustment of status to that of a refugee
shall be available to any alien, or members
of the alien’s family, if—
(A) the alien is a national of El Salvador,
Guatemala, or Honduras;
(B) the alien otherwise meets the defini-
tion of a refugee, except that the alien may
apply from inside his or her country of na-
tionality;
(C)(i) the alien presents himself or herself
at a Designated Application Processing Cen-
ter for consideration of refugee status under
this section; or
(ii) in the case of an alien who is a minor,
a parent or legal guardian of the alien pre-
sents an application for the alien; and
(D) the alien passes all relevant medical,
national security, and background checks.
(2) EFFECT OF DENIAL OF REFUGEE STATUS.—
The denial of refugee status under the Cen-
tral American Minors Program—
(A) shall not be held determinative with
respect to an adjudication under this sec-
tion; and
(B) shall not prejudice the results of an ad-
judication under this section.
(e) DESIGNATED APPLICATION PROCESSING
CENTERS.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of State shall establish a
minimum of 4 Designated Application Proc-
essing Centers in 4 different physical loca-
tions in the countries referred to in para-
graph (2), with the consent of the host coun-
try, if necessary.
(2) LOCATIONS.—The Secretary of State
shall ensure that at least 1 Designated Appli-
cation Processing Center is established in—
(A) El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and
Mexico; and
(B) any other country in Central America
selected by the Secretary of State.
(3) APPLICATION FOR REFUGEE STATUS.—The
Secretary of State shall ensure that any
alien who is physically present at a Des-
ignated Application Processing Center is
permitted—
(A) to apply for refugee status under this
section;
(B) to include his or her family in the ap-
plication for refugee status, regardless of
such alien’s status; and
(C) if the alien applying for refugee status
is an unaccompanied minor, to have legal
counsel present at all interviews.
(4) ADJUDICATION.—Applications submitted
at a Designated Application Processing Cen-
ter under this section shall be adjudicated by
refugee officers from the Refugee, Asylum
and International Operations Directorate of
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
(5) ADJUDICATION DEADLINES.—
(A) FIRST YEAR.—Applications submitted
under this section during the 1-year period
beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act shall be adjudicated not later than
1 year after submission.
(B) SUBSEQUENT APPLICATIONS.—Applica-
tions submitted under this section after the
period described in subparagraph (A) shall be
adjudicated not later than 6 months after
submission.
(f) EXCEPTIONS.—Subsections (c)(1) and
(d)(1)(C) shall be waived by the Secretary if
the alien, or his or her family—
(1) is a national of El Salvador or Hon-
duras;
(2) was in temporary protected status
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a) on the date on
which his or her country of nationality’s des-
ignation under subsection (b) of such section
was terminated;
(3) has maintained physical presence in the
United States since the effectiveness date of
the most recent designation, extension, or
termination; and
(4) would be eligible to reapply, under such
section 244, if his or her country of national-
ity’s designation had not been terminated.
(g) APPLICATION FEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Secretary shall ensure
that applicants for refugee status are not
charged fees in order to apply for humani-
tarian relief under this section.
(2) PREVIOUS DENIAL.—The Secretary may
charge a reasonable fee to an alien who ap-
plies for refugee status under this section
after having previously been denied refugee
status unless such denial occurred before the
alien attained 21 years of age.
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out this
section.
TITLE IV—MONITORING AND SUP-
PORTING UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN
CHILDREN AFTER PROCESSING AT THE
BORDER
SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS; AUTHORIZATION OF AP-
PROPRIATIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this title:
(1) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’
means the Department of Health and Human
Services.
(2) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the Office of Refugee Reset-
tlement of the Department.
(3) FLORES SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Flores settlement agreement’’ means
the Stipulated Settlement Agreement filed
in the United States District Court for the
Central District of California on January 17,
1997 (CV 85–4544–RJK).
(4) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY.—The term
‘‘local educational agency’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 8101 of the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 7801).
(5) RESIDENT ADULT.—The term ‘‘resident
adult’’ means any individual who is at least
18 years of age and regularly lives, shares
common areas, and sleeps in a sponsor or
prospective sponsor’s home.
(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Health and Human
Services.
(7) SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT
PERSONNEL; SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAL SUP-
PORT SERVICES.—The terms ‘‘specialized in-
structional support personnel’’ and ‘‘special-
ized instructional support services’’ have the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2827
May 14, 2019
meanings given such terms in section 8101 of
the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(8) ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY.—The term
‘‘zero tolerance policy’’ means the policy de-
scribed in the memorandum of the Attorney
General entitled ‘‘Zero-Tolerance for Of-
fenses Under 8 U.S.C. § 1325(a)’’, issued on
April 6, 2018.
SEC. 402. FAMILY REUNIFICATION.
(a) DIRECTIVES TO FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
(1) FAMILY REUNIFICATION.—Consistent
with section 235 of the William Wilberforce
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1232) and other ap-
plicable Federal law, the Secretary shall re-
allocate resources to facilitate the imme-
diate family reunification of each child sepa-
rated from his or her parent or guardian at
or near a port of entry or within 100 miles of
the border or otherwise removed from her or
her parent or legal guardian by the Sec-
retary, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Attorney General, the Director of the
Bureau of Prisons, or any agent or agency
thereof, if such reunification is in the best
interest of the child.
(2) COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL LAW.—The
Secretary, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, the Attorney General, the Director of
the Bureau of Prisons, and any other head of
a Federal agency involved in the proceedings
against a parent or guardian separated from
the parent or guardian’s child (as described
in paragraph (1) shall immediately change
policies, procedures, and practices—
(A) to reunify the child separated from his
or her parent or guardian; and
(B) to comply with section 235 of the Wil-
liam Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Pro-
tection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C.
1232), the Flores settlement agreement, and
other applicable Federal law.
(b) PARENTAL RIGHTS.—Consistent with the
laws of the State in which the child is lo-
cated, only an order from a court of com-
petent jurisdiction may terminate the rights
of a parent or guardian over an unaccom-
panied alien child, including any such child
separated from the parent or guardian at
such a border.
SEC. 403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated
such sums as may be necessary to carry out
this title.
Subtitle A—Strengthening the Government’s
Ability To Oversee the Safety and Well-
being of Children and Support Children
Forcibly Separated From Their Families
SEC. 411. HEALTH CARE IN SHELTERS FOR UNAC-
COMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.
(a) ACCESS TO SERVICES.—The Secretary
shall direct the Director, in carrying out the
functions transferred to the Director under
section 462(a) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(a))—
(1) to ensure that unaccompanied alien
children who have not been placed with a
sponsor have access to comprehensive, age-
appropriate medical, behavioral, and mental
health care services, including evidence-
based and trauma-informed treatments, pro-
vided by qualified health care professionals
with the appropriate certifications, licen-
sure, training, and expertise in treating chil-
dren, including infants, toddlers, and other
children who are younger than 13 years of
age; and
(2) to issue guidance to grantees, not later
than 60 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, on the procedures for pre-
scribing, reporting, and administration of
psychotropic medication.
(b) NATIONAL CHILD TRAUMATIC STRESS INI-
TIATIVE.—
(1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—Out of amounts
appropriated pursuant to section 403 to carry
out this section, the Secretary shall award
grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements
to public and nonprofit private entities and
Indian tribes and tribal organizations (as de-
fined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Educational Assistance Act (25
U.S.C. 5304)), for the purpose of developing
and maintaining programs that respond to
the needs of unaccompanied alien children in
the care of the Office of Refugee Resettle-
ment.
(2) BEST PRACTICES FOR TRAUMATIZED CHIL-
DREN.—The National Child Traumatic Stress
Initiative coordinating center described in
section 582(a)(1) of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 290hh–1(a)(1)) shall develop,
and make publically available, best practices
for providing evidence-based and trauma-in-
formed health care treatment to unaccom-
panied alien children in the care of the Office
of Refugee Resettlement (including such
children who are traumatized by separation
from parents or guardians by the Federal
Government to facilitate enforcement of the
zero tolerance policy and other infants, tod-
dlers, and children who are younger than 13
years of age)—
(A) to carry out programs under paragraph
(1);
(B) to provide services under section 412(a);
and
(C) to conduct assessments under section
412(a)(1)(A).
(c) OVERSIGHT ON ACCESS TO QUALITY
HEALTH CARE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and every 3 years thereafter, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall conduct
an evaluation of the medical, behavioral, and
mental health services provided to unaccom-
panied alien children in the care of the Office
of Refugee Resettlement and submit a report
and recommendations to the Department,
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate, the Committee
on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, and the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(2) CONTENT.—Each report under paragraph
(1) shall address—
(A) the extent to which entities with which
the Office of Refugee Resettlement contracts
meet established standards for ensuring the
safety and well-being of alien children in
their care;
(B) the quality and appropriateness of the
health care services provided to such chil-
dren, including the administration of medi-
cations and treatment;
(C) the extent to which medical, behav-
ioral, and mental health services address the
needs of traumatized children and mitigate
the long-term health consequences of trauma
exposure;
(D) the adequacy of practices to assess the
qualifications, including training and licen-
sure, of the professionals administering care,
including the expertise of such professionals
in providing trauma-informed care;
(E) the adequacy of appropriately-trained
health care staff at the Office of Refugee Re-
settlement tasked with assessing the ade-
quacy of care provided to children in their
care; and
(F) oversight, investigations, and actions
taken to address allegations against con-
tracted entities of mistreatment, abuse, or
neglect of children under any program under
Federal or State law.
SEC. 412. SERVICES TO UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN
CHILDREN AFTER PLACEMENT.
(a) TRAUMA-INFORMED, RISK-BASED, POST-
PLACEMENT SERVICES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Using amounts appro-
priated pursuant to section 403 to carry out
this section, the Secretary shall assist each
unaccompanied alien child in a placement
with a sponsor by—
(A) completing an individualized assess-
ment of the need for services to be provided
after placement; and
(B) providing such post-placement services
during the pendency of all immigration pro-
ceedings or until no longer necessary, which-
ever is later.
(2) MINIMUM SERVICES.—The services re-
ferred to in paragraph (1)(B) shall include—
(A) for the unaccompanied alien child, at
least 1 post-placement case management
services visit not later than 30 days after
placement with a sponsor and the referral of
the child to service providers in the commu-
nity;
(B) for the family of the child’s sponsor,
orientation and other functional family sup-
port services, as determined to be necessary
in the individualized assessment; and
(C) for each unaccompanied alien child
traumatized by separation of such child from
the child’s parent or guardian by the Federal
Government, comprehensive, trauma-in-
formed services to assist such child.
(b) EFFECTIVE USE OF CHILD ADVOCATES
FOR THE MOST VULNERABLE UNACCOMPANIED
ALIEN CHILDREN.—The Secretary shall—
(1) direct the Director—
(A) to identify and track the referral rates
of unaccompanied alien children to child ad-
vocates by care providers and investigate in-
stances in which such a rate is low;
(B) to ensure that the referral criteria es-
tablished by the Director are appropriately
applied when a care provider determines if
such a child is eligible for referral to a child
advocate;
(C) to provide technical assistance to care
providers to ensure compliance with such
criteria;
(D) to establish a process for stakeholders
and the public to refer unaccompanied alien
children, including those placed with a spon-
sor, to the child advocate program to deter-
mine if such child meets the referral criteria
for appointment of a child advocate; and
(E) to refer to a child advocate each unac-
companied alien child described in sub-
section (a)(2)(C); and
(2) ensure that each child advocate for an
unaccompanied alien child—
(A) is provided access to materials nec-
essary to advocate effectively for the best in-
terest of the child, including direct access to
significant incident reports, home studies,
and similar materials and information; and
(B) is notified when new materials and in-
formation described in subparagraph (A) re-
lating to the child are created or become
available.
SEC. 413. BACKGROUND CHECKS TO ENSURE THE
SAFE PLACEMENT OF UNACCOM-
PANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.
(a) CRIMINAL AND CIVIL RECORD CHECKS.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—In carrying out the
functions transferred to the Director under
section 462(a) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(a)), from amounts appro-
priated pursuant to section 403 to carry out
this section, the Director shall perform, con-
sistent with best practices in the field of
child welfare, and a prospective sponsor and
all resident adults in the home of the pro-
spective sponsor shall submit to the fol-
lowing record checks (which shall be com-
pleted as expeditiously as possible):
(A) Fingerprint-based checks (except as de-
scribed in paragraph (2)) in national crime
information databases, as defined in section
534(e)(3) of title 28, United States Code.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2828 May 14, 2019
(B) A search of the State criminal registry
or repository for any State (except as de-
scribed in paragraph (3)) in which the pro-
spective sponsor or resident adult has re-
sided during the 5 years preceding the
search.
(C) A search of the National Sex Offender
Registry established under section 119 of the
Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act
of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16919).
(D) A search (except as described in para-
graphs (2) and (3)) of State-based child abuse
and neglect registries and databases for any
State in which the prospective sponsor or
resident adult has resided during the 5 years
preceding the search.
(2) PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.—For purposes
of paragraph (1), if the prospective sponsor is
the parent or guardian of the child involved,
the Director shall have discretion to deter-
mine whether the Director shall perform,
and the prospective sponsor and resident
adults described in paragraph (1) shall sub-
mit to, a check described in subparagraph
(A) or (D) of paragraph (1).
(3) WAIVERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that it is not feasible to conduct the
check described in subparagraph (B) or (D) of
paragraph (1) for a State, including infeasi-
bility due to a State’s refusal or nonresponse
in response to a request for related informa-
tion, or that the average time to receive re-
sults from a State for such a check is more
than 10 business days, the Secretary may
waive the requirements of that subparagraph
with respect to the State involved for a pe-
riod of not more than 1 year. The Secretary
may renew the waiver in accordance with
this subparagraph.
(B) PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION.—The Sec-
retary may not delegate the responsibility
under subparagraph (A) to another officer or
employee of the Department.
(C) STATES WHERE WAIVERS APPLY.—The
Secretary shall make available, on a website
of the Department, the list of States for
which the requirements of subparagraph (B)
or (D) of paragraph (1) are waived under this
paragraph.
(4) USE OF RECORD CHECKS.—The informa-
tion revealed by a record check performed
pursuant to this section shall be used only
by the Director for the purpose of deter-
mining whether a potential sponsor is a suit-
able sponsor for a placement for an unaccom-
panied alien child.
(b) PLACEMENT DETERMINATIONS GEN-
ERALLY.—
(1) DENIALS REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN
CRIMES.—The Director shall deny any place-
ment for a prospective sponsor (other than
the parent or guardian of the child involved),
and may deny any placement for a prospec-
tive sponsor who is the parent or guardian of
the child involved subject to subsection (c),
if the record checks performed pursuant to
this section reveal that the prospective spon-
sor or a resident adult in the home of the
prospective sponsor was convicted at age 18
or older of a crime that is a felony consisting
of any of the following:
(A) Domestic violence, stalking, child
abuse, child neglect, or child abandonment,
if the prospective sponsor or resident adult
served at least 1 year imprisonment for a
crime specified in this subparagraph, or if
the prospective sponsor or resident adult was
convicted of 2 or more crimes specified in
this subparagraph, not arising out of a single
scheme of criminal misconduct.
(B) A crime against a child involving por-
nography.
(C) Human trafficking.
(D) Rape or sexual assault.
(E) Homicide.
(2) DENIALS CONSIDERED FOR CERTAIN OF-
FENSES.—The Director may deny a place-
ment for a prospective sponsor if the record
checks performed pursuant to this section
reveal that the prospective sponsor or a resi-
dent adult in the home of a prospective spon-
sor was adjudged guilty of a civil offense or
was convicted of a crime not covered by
paragraph (1). The Director, in making a de-
termination about whether to approve or
deny the placement, shall consider all of the
following factors:
(A) The type of offense.
(B) The number of offenses the sponsor or
resident adult has been adjudged guilty or
convicted of.
(C) The length of time that has elapsed
since the adjudication or conviction.
(D) The nature of the offense.
(E) The age of the individual at the time of
the adjudication or conviction.
(F) The relationship between the offense
and the capacity to care for a child.
(G) Evidence of rehabilitation of the indi-
vidual.
(H) Opinions of community and family
members concerning the individual.
(c) PLACEMENT DETERMINATIONS CON-
CERNING PARENTS OR GUARDIANS.—The Direc-
tor may deny a placement for a prospective
sponsor who is the parent or guardian of the
child involved if the record checks performed
pursuant to this section reveal that the pro-
spective sponsor or a resident adult in the
home of a prospective sponsor was adjudged
guilty of a civil offense or was convicted of
a crime. The Director, in making a deter-
mination about whether to approve or deny
the placement, shall consider all of the fac-
tors described in subsection (b)(2).
(d) APPEALS PROCESS.—
(1) INFORMATION.—The Secretary shall pro-
vide information to each prospective sponsor
on how such sponsor may appeal—
(A) a placement determination under this
section, including—
(i) prompt notice of the opportunity to so
appeal; and
(ii) instructions about how to participate
in the appeals process; and
(B) the results of a record check performed
pursuant to this section or the accuracy or
completeness of the information yielded by
the record check, as provided in paragraph
(2), including—
(i) prompt notice of the opportunity to so
appeal; and
(ii) instructions about how to participate
in the appeals process.
(2) APPEAL.—Each Federal agency respon-
sible for administering or maintaining the
information in a database, registry, or repos-
itory used in a record check performed pur-
suant to this section or responsible for the
accuracy or completeness of the information
yielded by the record check shall—
(A) establish a process for an appeal con-
cerning the results of that record check, or
that accuracy or completeness; and
(B) complete such process not later than 30
days after the date on which such an appeal
is filed.
(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to prohibit the
Director from establishing additional checks
or procedures (besides the checks required in
this section) for sponsors, to enable the Di-
rector—
(1) to oversee and promote the health, safe-
ty, and well-being of unaccompanied alien
children; or
(2) to prevent the exploitation, neglect, or
abuse of unaccompanied alien children.
SEC. 414. RESPONSIBILITY OF SPONSOR FOR IM-
MIGRATION COURT COMPLIANCE
AND CHILD WELL-BEING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Using amounts appro-
priated pursuant to section 403 to carry out
this section, the Secretary, in consultation
with the Attorney General, shall establish
procedures to ensure that legal orientation
programs regarding immigration court and
rights and responsibilities for the well-being
of unaccompanied alien children are pro-
vided to all prospective sponsors of unaccom-
panied alien children prior to an unaccom-
panied alien child’s placement with such a
sponsor.
(b) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.—The procedures
described in subsection (a) shall include a re-
quirement that each legal orientation pro-
gram described in such subsection shall pro-
vide information on the sponsor’s rights and
responsibilities to—
(1) ensure the unaccompanied alien child
appears at immigration proceedings and
communicate with the court involved re-
garding the child’s change of address and
other relevant information;
(2) immediately enroll the child in school,
and shall provide information and resources
if the sponsor encounters difficulty enrolling
such child in school;
(3) provide access to health care, including
mental health care as needed, and any nec-
essary age-appropriate health screening to
the child;
(4) report potential child traffickers and
other persons seeking to victimize or exploit
unaccompanied alien children, or otherwise
engage such children in criminal, harmful,
or dangerous activity;
(5) seek assistance from the Department
regarding the health, safety, and well-being
of the child placed with the sponsor; and
(6) file a complaint, if necessary, with the
Secretary or the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity regarding treatment of unaccom-
panied alien children while under the care of
the Office of Refugee Resettlement or the
Department of Homeland Security, respec-
tively.
SEC. 415. MONITORING UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN
CHILDREN.
(a) RISK-BASED POST-PLACEMENT SERV-
ICES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Using amounts appro-
priated pursuant to section 403 to carry out
this section, the Secretary shall assist each
unaccompanied alien child in a placement
with a sponsor by—
(A) completing an individualized assess-
ment of the need for services to be provided
after placement; and
(B) providing such post-placement services
during the pendency of removal proceedings
or until no longer necessary.
(2) MINIMUM SERVICES.—For the purposes of
paragraph (1), the services shall, at a min-
imum, include—
(A) for the unaccompanied alien child, at
least one post-placement case management
services visit within 30 days after placement
with a sponsor and the referral of unaccom-
panied alien children to service providers in
the community; and
(B) for the family of the child’s sponsor,
orientation and other functional family sup-
port services, as determined to be necessary
in the individualized assessment.
(b) EFFECTIVE USE OF CHILD ADVOCATES
FOR THE MOST VULNERABLE UNACCOMPANIED
ALIEN CHILDREN.—The Secretary shall—
(1) direct the Director—
(A) to identify and track the referral rates
of unaccompanied alien children to child ad-
vocates by care providers and investigate in-
stances in which such a rate is low;
(B) to ensure that the referral criteria es-
tablished by the Director are appropriately
applied when a care provider determines if
such a child is eligible for referral to a child
advocate;
(C) to provide technical assistance to care
providers to ensure compliance with such
criteria; and
(D) to establish a process for stakeholders
and the public to refer unaccompanied alien
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2829
May 14, 2019
children, including those placed with a spon-
sor, to the child advocate program to deter-
mine if such child meets the referral criteria
for appointment of a child advocate; and
(2) ensure that each child advocate for an
unaccompanied alien child shall—
(A) be provided access to materials nec-
essary to advocate effectively for the best in-
terest of the child, including direct access to
significant incident reports, home studies,
and similar materials and information; and
(B) be notified when new materials and in-
formation described in subparagraph (A) re-
lating to the child are created or become
available.
Subtitle B—Funding to States and School
Districts; Supporting Education and Safety
SEC. 421. FUNDING TO STATES TO CONDUCT
STATE CRIMINAL CHECKS AND
CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT
CHECKS.
(a) DEFINED TERM.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ means each of the 50 States of
the United States and the District of Colum-
bia.
(b) PAYMENTS TO STATES TO CONDUCT
STATE CRIMINAL REGISTRY OR REPOSITORY
SEARCHES AND TO CONDUCT CHILD ABUSE AND
NEGLECT CHECKS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Using amounts appro-
priated pursuant to section 403 to carry out
this section, the Secretary shall, in accord-
ance with this subsection, make payments to
States, through each agency in each State
tasked with administering the State crimi-
nal registry or repository required under sec-
tion 413(a)(1)(B) or the State child abuse and
neglect registry required under section
413(a)(1)(D), to assist with searches of such
registries, repositories, or databases for pro-
spective sponsors of unaccompanied alien
children and resident adults in the home of
such prospective sponsors, in accordance
with section 413.
(2) ALLOTMENTS.—
(A) STATE CRIMINAL REGISTRY AND REPOSI-
TORY SEARCHES.—In each fiscal year, using
amounts appropriated pursuant to section
403 to carry out this section with respect to
the program providing payments to States to
assist with criminal registry or repository
searches, the Secretary shall allot to each
State participating in such program,
through the agency in each such State
tasked with administering the State crimi-
nal registry or repository described in sec-
tion 413(a)(1)(B), an amount that bears the
same relationship to such funds as the num-
ber of searches of such State criminal reg-
istry or repository conducted in accordance
with section 413(a)(1)(B) in the State bears to
the total number of such searches in all
States participating in the program.
(B) CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT CHECKS.—In
each fiscal year, using amounts appropriated
pursuant to section 403 to carry out this sec-
tion with respect to the program providing
payments to States to assist with child
abuse and neglect registry and database
searches, the Secretary shall allot to each
State participating in such program,
through the agency in each such State
tasked with administering the State child
abuse and neglect registries and databases
described in section 413(a)(1)(D), an amount
that bears the same relationship to such
funds as the number of searches of such child
abuse and neglect registries and databases
conducted in accordance with such section in
the State bears to the total number of such
searches in all States participating in the
program.
(C) TRANSITION RULE.—In the first fiscal
year in which funds are made available under
this title to carry out this section, the Sec-
retary shall make allotments to each State
participating in the programs under this sec-
tion in accordance with subparagraphs (A)
and (B), based on the Secretary’s estimate of
the number of the searches described in each
such subparagraph, respectively, that each of
the States are expected to conduct in such
fiscal year.
(3) STATE APPLICATIONS.—Each State agen-
cy described in paragraph (1) desiring an al-
lotment under subparagraph (A) or (B) of
paragraph (2) shall submit an application at
such time, in such manner, and containing
such information as the Secretary may re-
quire, which shall include an assurance that
the State agency will respond promptly to
all requests from the Director, within a rea-
sonable time period determined by the Direc-
tor, to conduct a search required under sec-
tion 413 in a timely manner, and a descrip-
tion of how funds will be used to meet such
assurance.
SEC. 422. UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN IN
SCHOOLS.
(a) IMMEDIATE ENROLLMENT.—To be eligible
for funding under the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301
et seq.), a local educational agency shall—
(1) ensure that unaccompanied alien chil-
dren in the area served by the local edu-
cational agency are immediately enrolled in
school following placement with a sponsor,
and any available academic or other records
are transferred to such school; and
(2) remove barriers to enrollment and full
participation in educational programs and
services offered by the local educational
agency for unaccompanied alien children (in-
cluding barriers related to documentation,
age, language, and lack of a parent or guard-
ian), which shall include reviewing and revis-
ing policies that may have a negative effect
on such children.
(b) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—Using amounts
appropriated pursuant to section 403 to carry
out this section, the Secretary of Education
shall award grants, on a competitive basis,
to eligible local educational agencies, or con-
sortia of neighboring local educational agen-
cies, described in subsection (c) to enable the
local educational agencies or consortia to
enhance opportunities for, and provide serv-
ices to, immigrant children and youth, in-
cluding unaccompanied alien children, in the
area served by the local educational agencies
or consortia.
(c) ELIGIBLE LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGEN-
CIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A local educational agen-
cy, or a consortium of neighboring local edu-
cational agencies, is eligible for a grant
under subsection (b) if, during the fiscal year
for which a grant is awarded under this sec-
tion, there are 25 or more unaccompanied
alien children enrolled in the public schools
served by the local educational agency or the
consortium, respectively.
(2) DETERMINATIONS OF NUMBER OF UNAC-
COMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.—The Secretary
of Education shall determine the number of
unaccompanied alien children for purposes of
paragraph (1) based on the most accurate
data available that is provided to the Sec-
retary of Education by the Director or the
Department of Homeland Security.
(d) APPLICATIONS.—A local educational
agency, or a consortia of neighboring local
educational agencies, desiring a grant under
this section shall submit an application to
the Secretary of Education, which shall in-
clude a description of how the grant will be
used to enhance opportunities for, and pro-
vide services to, immigrant children and
youth (including unaccompanied alien chil-
dren) and their families, provide trauma-in-
formed services and supports (including men-
tal health care services for such children and
youth), improve engagement with the spon-
sors of such children or youth, and provide
specialized instructional support services
(which may include hiring specialized in-
structional support personnel with expertise
in providing services to such children and
youth).
TITLE V—ENSURING ORDERLY AND HU-
MANE MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN AND
FAMILIES SEEKING PROTECTION
Subtitle A—Providing a Fair and Efficient
Legal Process for Children and Vulnerable
Families Seeking Asylum
SEC. 511. COURT APPEARANCE COMPLIANCE AND
LEGAL ORIENTATION.
(a) ACCESS TO LEGAL ORIENTATION PRO-
GRAMS TO ENSURE COURT APPEARANCE COM-
PLIANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security, in consultation with the At-
torney General, shall establish procedures,
consistent with the procedures established
pursuant to section 414, to ensure that legal
orientation programs are available for all
aliens detained by the Department of Home-
land Security.
(2) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.—Programs under
paragraph (1) shall inform aliens described in
such paragraph regarding—
(A) the basic procedures of immigration
hearings;
(B) their rights and obligations relating to
such hearings under Federal immigration
laws to ensure appearance at all immigra-
tion proceedings;
(C) their rights under Federal immigration
laws, including available legal protections
and the procedure for requesting such pro-
tection;
(D) the consequences of filing frivolous
legal claims and of failing to appear for pro-
ceedings; and
(E) any other subject that the Attorney
General considers appropriate, such as a con-
tact list of potential legal resources and pro-
viders.
(3) ELIGIBILITY.—An alien shall be given ac-
cess to legal orientation programs under this
subsection regardless of the alien’s current
immigration status, prior immigration his-
tory, or potential for immigration relief.
(b) PILOT PROJECT FOR NONDETAINED
ALIENS IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
shall develop and administer a 2-year pilot
program at not fewer than 2 immigration
courts to provide nondetained aliens with
pending asylum claims access to legal infor-
mation.
(2) REPORT.—At the conclusion of the pilot
program under this subsection, the Attorney
General shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the Senate and
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives that describes the extent
to which nondetained aliens are provided
with access to counsel.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Executive Office of Immigration Review of
the Department of Justice such sums as may
be necessary to carry out this section.
SEC. 512. FAIR DAY IN COURT FOR KIDS.
(a) APPOINTMENT OF COUNSEL IN REMOVAL
PROCEEDINGS; RIGHT TO REVIEW CERTAIN DOC-
UMENTS IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS.—Section
240(b) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1229a(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘, at no expense to the Gov-
ernment,’’; and
(ii) by striking the comma at the end and
inserting a semicolon;
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and
(C) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respec-
tively;
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2830 May 14, 2019
‘‘(B) the Attorney General may appoint or
provide counsel, at Government expense, to
aliens in immigration proceedings;
‘‘(C) the alien, or the alien’s counsel, not
later than 7 days after receiving a notice to
appear under section 239(a), shall receive a
complete copy of the alien’s immigration file
(commonly known as an ‘A-file’) in the pos-
session of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity (other than documents protected from
disclosure under section 552(b) of title 5,
United States Code);’’; and
(D) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated,
by striking ‘‘, and’’ and inserting ‘‘; and’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) FAILURE TO PROVIDE ALIEN REQUIRED
DOCUMENTS.—A removal proceeding may not
proceed until the alien, or the alien’s coun-
sel, if the alien is represented—
‘‘(A) has received the documents required
under paragraph (4)(C); and
‘‘(B) has been provided at least 10 days to
review and assess such documents.’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION REGARDING THE AUTHOR-
ITY OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO APPOINT
COUNSEL TO ALIENS IN IMMIGRATION PRO-
CEEDINGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 292 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1362) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 292. RIGHT TO COUNSEL.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsections (b) and (c), in any removal pro-
ceeding and in any appeal proceeding before
the Attorney General from any such removal
proceeding, the subject of the proceeding
shall have the privilege of being represented
by such counsel as may be authorized to
practice in such proceeding as he or she may
choose. This subsection shall not apply to
screening proceedings described in section
235(b)(1)(A).
‘‘(b) ACCESS TO COUNSEL FOR UNACCOM-
PANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In any removal pro-
ceeding and in any appeal proceeding before
the Attorney General from any such removal
proceeding, an unaccompanied alien child (as
defined in section 462(g) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act on 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g))) shall be
represented by Government-appointed coun-
sel, at Government expense.
‘‘(2) LENGTH OF REPRESENTATION.—Once a
child is designated as an unaccompanied
alien child under paragraph (1), the child
shall be represented by counsel at every
stage of the proceedings from the child’s ini-
tial appearance through the termination of
immigration proceedings, and any ancillary
matters appropriate to such proceedings
even if the child attains 18 years of age or is
reunified with a parent or legal guardian
while the proceedings are pending.
‘‘(3) NOTICE.—Not later than 72 hours after
an unaccompanied alien child is taken into
Federal custody, the alien shall be notified
that he or she will be provided with legal
counsel in accordance with this subsection.
‘‘(4) WITHIN DETENTION FACILITIES.—The
Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure
that unaccompanied alien children have ac-
cess to counsel inside all detention, holding,
and border facilities.
‘‘(c) PRO BONO REPRESENTATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Attorney General should
make every effort to utilize the services of
competent counsel who agree to provide rep-
resentation to such children under sub-
section (b) without charge.
‘‘(2) DEVELOPMENT OF NECESSARY INFRA-
STRUCTURES AND SYSTEMS.—The Attorney
General shall develop the necessary mecha-
nisms to identify counsel available to pro-
vide pro bono legal assistance and represen-
tation to children under subsection (b) and
to recruit such counsel.
‘‘(d) CONTRACTS; GRANTS.—The Attorney
General may enter into contracts with, or
award grants to, nonprofit agencies with rel-
evant expertise in the delivery of immigra-
tion-related legal services to children to
carry out the responsibilities under this sec-
tion, including providing legal orientation,
screening cases for referral, recruiting,
training, and overseeing pro bono attorneys.
Nonprofit agencies may enter into sub-
contracts with, or award grants to, private
voluntary agencies with relevant expertise
in the delivery of immigration related legal
services to children in order to carry out this
section.
‘‘(e) MODEL GUIDELINES ON LEGAL REP-
RESENTATION OF CHILDREN.—
‘‘(1) DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDELINES.—The Ex-
ecutive Office for Immigration Review, in
consultation with voluntary agencies and
national experts, shall develop model guide-
lines for the legal representation of alien
children in immigration proceedings, which
shall be based on the children’s asylum
guidelines, the American Bar Association
Model Rules of Professional Conduct, and
other relevant domestic or international
sources.
‘‘(2) PURPOSE OF GUIDELINES.—The guide-
lines developed under paragraph (1) shall be
designed to help protect each child from any
individual suspected of involvement in any
criminal, harmful, or exploitative activity
associated with the smuggling or trafficking
of children, while ensuring the fairness of
the removal proceeding in which the child is
involved.
‘‘(f) DUTIES OF COUNSEL.—Counsel provided
under this section shall—
‘‘(1) represent the unaccompanied alien
child in all proceedings and matters relating
to the immigration status of the child or
other actions involving the Department of
Homeland Security;
‘‘(2) appear in person for all individual
merits hearings before the Executive Office
for Immigration Review and interviews in-
volving the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity;
‘‘(3) owe the same duties of undivided loy-
alty, confidentiality, and competent rep-
resentation to the child as is due to an adult
client; and
‘‘(4) carry out other such duties as may be
proscribed by the Attorney General or the
Executive Office for Immigration Review.
‘‘(g) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to supersede—
‘‘(1) any duties, responsibilities, discipli-
nary, or ethical responsibilities an attorney
may have to his or her client under State
law;
‘‘(2) the admission requirements under
State law; or
‘‘(3) any other State law pertaining to the
admission to the practice of law in a par-
ticular jurisdiction.’’.
(2) RULEMAKING.—The Attorney General
shall promulgate regulations to implement
section 292 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act, as added by paragraph (1), in ac-
cordance with the requirements set forth in
section 3006A of title 18, United States Code.
SEC. 513. ACCESS TO COUNSEL AND LEGAL ORI-
ENTATION AT DETENTION FACILI-
TIES.
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
provide access to counsel for all aliens de-
tained in a facility under the supervision of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or the
Department of Health and Human Services,
or in any private facility that contracts with
the Federal Government to house, detain, or
hold aliens.
SEC. 514. REPORT ON ACCESS TO COUNSEL.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than December 31 of
each year, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, in consultation with the Attorney Gen-
eral, shall prepare and submit a report to the
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives regarding the ex-
tent to which aliens described in section
292(b) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act, as added by section 512(b), have been
provided access to counsel.
(b) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (a) shall include, for the im-
mediately preceding 1-year period—
(1) the number and percentage of aliens de-
scribed in section 292(b) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act, as added by section
512(b), who were represented by counsel, in-
cluding information specifying—
(A) the stage of the legal process at which
each such alien was represented;
(B) whether the alien was in government
custody; and
(C) the nationality and ages of such aliens;
and
(2) the number and percentage of aliens
who received legal orientation presentations,
including the nationality and ages of such
aliens.
SEC. 515. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to the Executive Office of Im-
migration Review of the Department of Jus-
tice such sums as may be necessary to carry
out sections 512 through 514.
(b) BUDGETARY EFFECTS.—The budgetary
effects of this Act, for the purpose of com-
plying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-
Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference
to the latest statement titled ‘‘Budgetary
Effects of PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act,
submitted for printing in the Congressional
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budg-
et Committee, provided that such statement
has been submitted prior to the vote on pas-
sage.
Subtitle B—Reducing Significant Delays in
Immigration Court
SEC. 521. ELIMINATE IMMIGRATION COURT
BACKLOGS.
(a) ANNUAL INCREASES IN IMMIGRATION
JUDGES.—The Attorney General shall in-
crease the total number of immigration
judges to adjudicate pending cases and effi-
ciently process future cases by at least 75
judges during each of the fiscal years 2019,
2020, 2021, and 2022.
(b) QUALIFICATION; SELECTION.—The Attor-
ney General shall—
(1) ensure that all newly hired immigration
judges and Board of Immigration Appeals
members are highly qualified and trained to
conduct fair, impartial adjudications in ac-
cordance with applicable due process re-
quirements; and
(2) in selecting immigration judges, may
not give any preference to candidates with
prior government experience compared to
equivalent subject-matter expertise result-
ing from nonprofit, private bar, or academic
experience.
(c) NECESSARY SUPPORT STAFF FOR IMMI-
GRATION JUDGES.—To address the shortage of
support staff for immigration judges, the At-
torney General shall ensure that each immi-
gration judge has sufficient support staff,
adequate technological and security re-
sources, and appropriate courtroom facili-
ties.
(d) ANNUAL INCREASES IN BOARD OF IMMI-
GRATION APPEALS PERSONNEL.—The Attorney
General shall increase the number of Board
of Immigration Appeals staff attorneys (in-
cluding necessary additional support staff)
to efficiently process cases by at least—
(1) 23 attorneys during fiscal year 2019;
(2) an additional 23 attorneys during fiscal
year 2020; and
(3) an additional 23 attorneys during fiscal
year 2021.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2831
May 14, 2019
(e) GAO REPORT.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall—
(1) conduct a study of the hurdles to effi-
cient hiring of immigration court judges
within the Department of Justice; and
(2) propose solutions to Congress for im-
proving the efficiency of the hiring process.
SEC. 522. IMPROVED TRAINING FOR IMMIGRA-
TION JUDGES AND MEMBERS OF
THE BOARD OF IMMIGRATION AP-
PEALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—To ensure efficient and
fair proceedings, the Director of the Execu-
tive Office for Immigration Review shall fa-
cilitate robust training programs for immi-
gration judges and members of the Board of
Immigration Appeals.
(b) MANDATORY TRAINING.—Training facili-
tated under subsection (a) shall include—
(1) expanding the training program for new
immigration judges and Board members;
(2) continuing education regarding current
developments in immigration law through
regularly available training resources and an
annual conference; and
(3) methods to ensure that immigration
judges are trained on properly crafting and
dictating decisions and standards of review,
including improved on-bench reference mate-
rials and decision templates.
SEC. 523. NEW TECHNOLOGY TO IMPROVE COURT
EFFICIENCY.
The Director of the Executive Office for
Immigration Review will modernize its case
management and related electronic systems,
including allowing for electronic filing, to
improve efficiency in the processing of immi-
gration proceedings.
Subtitle C—Reducing the Likelihood of
Repeated Migration to the United States
SEC. 531. ESTABLISHING REINTEGRATION AND
MONITORING SERVICES FOR REPA-
TRIATING CHILDREN.
(a) CONSULTATION WITH UNHCR.—The Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, and the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘UNHCR’’),
Central American governments, and non-
governmental organizations with expertise
in child welfare and unaccompanied migrant
children to develop a child-centered repatri-
ation process for unaccompanied children
being returned to their country of origin
that requires a determination of the best in-
terest of the child before the child is repatri-
ated to his or her country of origin.
(b) COLLABORATION WITH REGIONAL GOV-
ERNMENTS AND NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZA-
TIONS.—The Secretary of State and the Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, in coordination
with the Secretary of Homeland Security,
shall collaborate with regional governments
and international and domestic nongovern-
mental organizations to reduce children’s
need to emigrate again by—
(1) establishing and expanding comprehen-
sive long-term reintegration services at the
municipal level for repatriated unaccom-
panied children once returned to their com-
munities of origin;
(2) establishing monitoring and
verification services to determine the well-
being of repatriated children in order to de-
termine if United States protection and
screening functioned effectively in identi-
fying persecuted and trafficked children;
(3) providing emergency referrals to the
UNHCR for registration and safe passage to
an established emergency transit center for
refugees for any repatriated children who are
facing immediate risk of harm; and
(4) ensuring that international and domes-
tic civil society organizations with expertise
in child welfare, unaccompanied migrant
children, and international protection needs
have access to government run reception
centers for repatriated children—
(A) to identify children with protection
needs; and
(B) to offer child services following their
return to their communities.
By Mr. JONES:
S. 1453. A bill to amend the Trade Act
of 1974 to provide adjustment assist-
ance to farmers adversely affected by
reduced exports resulting from tariffs
imposed as retaliation for United
States tariff increases, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, I rise be-
cause I am deeply concerned about
what is happening across the country
to our farmers as a result of the Presi-
dent’s trade war with China.
Let me first say, I agree with the
President 100 percent that we need fair
trade deals and that we have to make
sure American workers and consumers
are not being taken for a ride by other
countries, especially rogue countries
and bad actors like China. Yet, since
this trade war began last year, these
tariffs are having the complete oppo-
site effect on the people they are sup-
posed to help. That is because tariffs
are taxes, plain and simple. Tariffs are
taxes, and they are being raised every
day by the administration.
The President insists that tariffs
force China to pay money to the U.S.
Treasury, which is just not true. It is
just not factually accurate at all. It is
also misleading to the American peo-
ple. When a tariff is placed on a Chi-
nese good, it is the American company
that is importing that product, in addi-
tion to the American consumer who ul-
timately buys it, that pays that addi-
tional price. It is just like adding a
sales tax to any consumer good or to
any commodity on which a tariff has
been levied. From businesses to farm-
ers, to consumers, these taxes are
being paid for by Americans. That is
not politics; that is economics.
The President thinks these tariffs
will somehow punish China for its bad
behavior, but it is our people who are
suffering right now. Last week, we saw
a report that showed that the cost of
these tariffs had fallen entirely on U.S.
businesses and on U.S. households. Just
yesterday, China announced it is plan-
ning on retaliating, once again, with
increased tariffs on $60 billion worth of
American-made goods, which sent the
stock market into a tailspin.
Unemployment is incredibly low
today, and the economy is doing well
today, but across the country, there
are so many people who don’t always
feel the effects of that booming econ-
omy. Yes, they have jobs, but they also
have families, healthcare costs, and
other costs, so they don’t always feel
the economy is doing as well for them
as it is for others whom they see on the
news, on TV, and in Washington, DC.
Working folks aren’t going to feel the
true benefits from this economic
growth and from the tax cuts of 2017 if
they are paying higher taxes on the
products they are buying every single
day.
Just yesterday, the President was
talking about the tariffs and feeling a
little bit of pain but about how great a
deal this is going to be and how our
government will be happy. The Presi-
dent said: ‘‘[O]ur government is happy
because we’re taking in tens of billions
of dollars.’’ Yet that money is being
brought into the Treasury on the backs
of working people—hard-working
American taxpayers. It is not the Chi-
nese companies; it is not the Chinese
people; it is not the Mexican people;
and it is not the Canadian people. It is
the American public that is paying
that money into the U.S. Treasury.
Tariffs are taxes, and we are all going
to pay because of this trade war. Call
them whatever you want, but that is
the effect they are going to have on the
wallets of American taxpayers. Even
the President’s own economic advisers
admitted this week that it will be the
Americans who will suffer as a result of
this trade war, with the increased
taxes being placed on them every day
through the consumer goods they are
purchasing.
In Alabama, our farmers, in par-
ticular, are hurting, and that is an un-
derstatement. Tariffs are affecting a
cross-section of our manufacturing
workforce. It has our automobile deal-
ers concerned because of the threat of
foreign automobile tariffs. Yet, even in
the best of times, it is the farmers who
are at the most risk. Farming is a
risky business, and their margins are
very tight. Many farmers in Alabama
have already suffered devastating
losses from natural disasters, like Hur-
ricane Michael. Quite frankly, they are
suffering another congressional dis-
aster right now—in the words of my
colleague and friend Senator ISAKSON
from Georgia—because we can’t put
politics aside quickly enough to get
disaster aid to farmers in the South, to
folks who have suffered from flooding,
or to folks who have suffered from
wildfires. We can’t do this because of
politics, so now they are suffering. The
farmers whom I visited back in South
Alabama after Hurricane Michael are
suffering now from the congressional
disaster.
The last thing in the world they need
is another administration disaster that
is being manufactured because of the
Chinese tariffs on their crops. In par-
ticular, soybeans are being hit. Soy-
bean farming supports more than 11,000
jobs in Alabama, but soybean prices
are at the lowest they have been in a
decade. You can see from this chart
how they started up. It was over $10
just in April of 2018—over $10. Now it is
just above $8, and it is continuing to
slide. The longer this goes on, the more
it hurts.
Cotton farmers have been hit. Cotton
has had an almost 25-percent reduction
in the market price since these tariffs
took effect. We have record low unem-
ployment in the country right now; yet
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.052 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2832 May 14, 2019
we have a growing number of bank-
ruptcies in farm country. I was looking
at reports just today that showed the
rise in the number of bankruptcies, the
point being that these are hitting peo-
ple now.
We all want a great deal. We all want
to make sure the President gets a good
deal for the American public, for the
American consumer, but this is hurting
people right now, and they will not be
able to recover if this does not end
soon. Unless the President can reach a
deal soon, we can expect prices to con-
tinue to deteriorate and for the eco-
nomic conditions in farm country to
get even worse, which will put in jeop-
ardy generations of farmers who may
get run out of business.
This is a dire situation. I am not try-
ing to just light fire somewhere. This is
really serious for these folks. You only
have to watch the news every day.
These are people who have supported
the President of the United States and
who voted for the President of the
United States. They want a good deal,
and they want a fair deal, but this has
been going on for a long time, and
there does not seem to be any end in
sight. Many of my State’s farmers—
probably most of my State’s farmers—
support the President, as do others
around the country. They have had his
back over the last 2 or 3 years, even
during the campaign. Yet, in return,
these trade policies have taken money
out of their pockets.
When this first started over a year
ago, they believed they would get a
good deal soon. They believed they
could get crops in the field, that they
could get their loans paid, and that
they could recover from the disasters
that had hit them, but it has just
dragged on and on. Every time we see
a new round of tweets or a new press
conference, we talk about what a great
deal this is going to be. Yet, when you
look behind the curtain, everything is
different, and the trade war goes on
and on and on.
I fear he is not listening to these
farmers or to the Members of Congress
on both sides of the aisle—like our Fi-
nance chairman—who are telling him
that these policies are hurting farmers,
that they are devastating farmers. I
am not sure how much longer they can
hang on in this trade war. Many will.
Many can hang on. Yet others cannot.
Whether the next generation of farmers
will take up the mantle of farming re-
mains to be seen.
This is one reason I am introducing a
bill today to update the Trade Adjust-
ment Assistance Program, which was
originally created by my colleague
Senator CHUCK GRASSLEY, a Republican
from Iowa, to provide help for farmers
and producers who have been hurt by
these retaliatory tariffs. TAA was
originally created to help provide as-
sistance to workers who were impacted
by trade, but it was updated in 2002 to
include assistance to growers, pro-
ducers, and fishermen. This bill that I
introduce today, as well as a com-
panion bill that has been introduced in
the House, would, once again, update
the program to help folks who are
hurting because of trade actions that
have been carried out by our govern-
ment—not by another government but
by ours.
Look, the fact is, no matter how
many legislative stopgaps my col-
leagues and I propose or bailouts the
President offers, the massive losses
from which farmers and producers suf-
fer are not going to end until the Presi-
dent calls off this trade war.
We all want better trade deals, and
farmers want access to global markets.
China has, without a doubt, been a bad
actor on many trade issues—a rogue
country on trade issues. We should be
working with our allies in Europe and
elsewhere to hold China accountable.
Instead, the administration has decided
to go it alone. We are picking fights
with friends over our own trade issues
with them rather than working
through diplomacy to try to work
those deals. We are picking fights with
them, and we are going it alone against
China when we so desperately need our
friends to help us. China is a growing
concern around the world, and we need
global partners to help us with our
trade issues to try to make sure the
global economy stays stable.
I will be absolutely thrilled if the
President of the United States nego-
tiates a great deal. I hope he negotiates
the best deal ever—the one that he
says he is going to negotiate. I hope
and pray we get that great deal and
that we can do a trade deal with China
that is fair and better for America than
it has ever been in the history of this
country. For all of our sakes, I hope it
happens. I really do. This is not a par-
tisan issue. This is about where we are
as a country. I hope for the best for
him, but, right now, these tariffs are
having the opposite effect, and it is
hurting so many people.
What many of us fear is going to hap-
pen in the cynical world we live in
today—and we all get caught up in it,
including Members of this body—is
that when the President finally wakes
up and realizes he has done irreparable
harm and irreparable damage to so
many of his own supporters with these
tariffs and when he wakes up and ap-
proaches 2020 and understands that his
support may be eroding among those
who form the core backbone of his sup-
port, he will scramble to make a deal
regardless of whether it will be a good
deal or not but a deal nonetheless and
regardless of whether America will
come out on top.
When all is said and done, we can
claim victory, but it may be a very hol-
low victory because, in going forward,
we may have a little bit better deal or
we may have a much better deal, but it
will not change what is happening
today or what has happened over the
last year. Even if a deal is struck, we
have already lost.
Farmers will still have to be digging
themselves out of this financial hole
for a very long time. Many will have to
declare bankruptcy and lose their
farms because they couldn’t wait out
the President’s trade gamble and his
tough talk.
To mitigate the tariffs’ harmful im-
pacts, the administration is providing
some aid to help farmers who are
struggling as a result of the trade war.
They did so last year, and they need it,
but those government bailouts—and
that is what they are, they are bail-
outs—are being paid by other American
taxpayers in order to alleviate the pain
inflicted by the administration’s poli-
cies.
That is right. Working families
across the country are being asked to
step up. We do those things. We are
charitable people. If somebody is in
pain, we want to do that and help, but
when the pain is being caused by the
very person who is causing us to then
step up, that makes no sense.
Folks, these handouts will not come
close to making up for the losses these
farmers have suffered, and it is sure
not a long-term solution for a healthy
trade market.
The biggest problem for these farm-
ers is that they don’t want handouts.
They don’t want government subsidies.
They don’t want handouts to them for
the problems they are facing because of
these trade policies. They want their
markets. They want to go to China.
They want to go to places around the
world and share their products. They
are proud of their products. We should
be proud of those products.
We should not be just simply telling
farmers: Do not worry because we will
pay for you to grow your product. We
are not worried about your markets be-
cause we will buy your soybeans. We
will buy the cotton. We will buy those
things if China doesn’t do it. That is
not what these farmers want. They
don’t want that charity. They want
their markets. They work hard for
those markets.
So how much more can our farmers
take? How much more? How long can
they go on like this? At what point will
they be forced to cut their losses and
find another way to support their fami-
lies while we negotiate with China,
while we tweet the fact that a good
deal is coming?
At what point will Members of this
body and the House of Representatives
who ignore the math and the suffering
of their constituents—at what point
will those in this body and the House of
Representatives who ignore the suf-
fering of their constituents by sup-
porting these harmful trade policies, at
what point do they stand up?
There are so many people I have
talked to who do not support these
trade policies, but yet they are silent,
and they say: Give the President time.
He is going to get a good deal.
At what point does it come where
they recognize the suffering of the
farmers of the United States and my
State of Alabama? At what point do
they finally stand up and say enough is
enough?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.024 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2833
May 14, 2019
Over the years, the Congress of the
United States has ceded a lot of au-
thority to the executive branch of gov-
ernment, and now it is coming home to
roost. We can’t do much of anything
except give speeches like this. We can
try to introduce bills that probably
will never get to the Senate floor. We
can go home and listen to the pain, lis-
ten to the suffering, listen to people
who so badly want to support the
President and what he is doing, as all
of us do for these new trade deals, but
the fact is, we have ceded so much
power to the executive branch of gov-
ernment. It is time for Congress to
stand up. It is time for people to speak
out to help their farmers, to let the ad-
ministration know that this cannot go
on much longer. We have to stand up
and stop this pain as quickly as we can.
We can do it. The President can do it.
He has smart people surrounding him.
They need to explain to him again that
these tariffs are being paid by the
American people, not another country.
Let’s get this negotiated, and let’s stop
the bleeding for the American farmer
as soon as we possibly can.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HARRIS,
and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 1469. A bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit inter-
fering in elections with agents of a for-
eign government; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to introduce the Prevent
Foreign Interference with Elections
Act of 2019. This bill provides enhanced
criminal penalties and additional safe-
guards to prevent foreign interference
in our elections.
To be clear, there are already laws on
the books to prosecute those who inter-
fere in U.S. elections. Indeed, Special
Counsel Mueller charged Russian intel-
ligence officers who hacked into U.S.
computers and stole documents, for the
purpose of interfering in the 2016 presi-
dential elections.
Special Counsel Mueller also charged
the Russian Internet Research Agency
and several of its employees for their
role in the social media campaign that
was designed to manipulate American
voters.
This bill, however, makes election in-
terference a separate criminal offense.
It makes clear that those who conspire
with foreign actors to interfere in U.S.
elections will be punished appro-
priately for striking at the bedrock of
our democracy,
This bill does five main things.
First, it explicitly makes it a crime
to conspire with foreign nationals to
interfere in U.S. elections.
Interference can be accomplished
through breaking a federal criminal
law, such as committing fraud, or by
hacking into someone’s computer, or
by violating federal, state, or local
election laws.
As I mentioned, this bill simply
leaves no doubt that working with a
foreign actor to commit these offenses
with the goal of interfering in a U.S.
election is a crime.
And it requires that those who break
this law will be sentenced separately,
and in addition to any other laws that
were broken.
Second, it makes it so that people
convicted of interfering in our elec-
tions would be inadmissible into the
United States.
There is, however, an important ex-
ception. Those who cooperate with law
enforcement to help catch those re-
sponsible for interference would be eli-
gible for an S visa.
Third, it creates a civil action, allow-
ing the Attorney General to imme-
diately address foreign interference
once U.S. law enforcement learns of it.
This is important because foreign in-
terference can then be stopped as soon
as it is discovered.
Fourth, it prohibits foreign-financed
elections ads, including foreign-fi-
nanced issue ads and foreign-financed
digital ads.
These expansions will help protect
the integrity of our electoral process.
Fifth and finally, it prohibits pro-
viding ‘‘substantial assistance’’ to for-
eign nationals trying to interfere in
our elections.
It is important that we also hold our-
selves accountable by not providing aid
to those wishing to do us harm.
To be clear, there was foreign inter-
ference in the 2016 Presidential elec-
tion.
The Intelligence Community unani-
mously concluded that the Russian
government interfered by ‘‘blend[ing]
covert intelligence operations—such as
cyber activity—with overt efforts by
Russian government agencies, state-
funded media, third-party inter-
mediaries, and paid social media users
or ‘trolls.’ ’’ After a nearly two-year in-
vestigation, Special Counsel Mueller
confirmed these core conclusions.
Along the way, his office indicted 12
Russian intelligence officers in connec-
tion with Russian hacking operations
and three companies, including the
Internet Research Agency and 13 of its
employees for their role in the social
media campaign to influence American
voters.
Unless we do something, this inter-
ference will happen again. And to stop
it, we need to not only make clear that
interference will result in criminal
punishment, we must also update our
election laws so that they can combat
these new cyber-attacks. This bill does
both.
I am introducing this bill today with
strong Democratic support, and I
would particularly like to thank Sen-
ator BLUMENTHAL for his leadership on
this issue.
It is my sincere hope, however, that
my Republican colleagues will join us
in this important effort as well.
The issue I speak about today is one
that goes to the core of our democracy.
It is a bi-partisan issue that I hope
both Democrats and Republicans can
join in addressing.
Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the
floor.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 205—EX-
PRESSING THE GRATITUDE OF
THE SENATE FOR THE PEOPLE
WHO OPERATE OR SUPPORT DIA-
PER BANKS AND DIAPER DIS-
TRIBUTION PROGRAMS IN THEIR
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. JONES, Mr. BRAUN, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. COL-
LINS, Ms. SMITH, Mr. ROBERTS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. HOEVEN) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions:
S. RES. 205
Whereas the lack of a sufficient clean dia-
per supply can adversely affect the physical,
mental, and economic well-being of infants,
toddlers, and their families;
Whereas diapers are a material basic need
of every infant and toddler;
Whereas an infant requires up to 12 diapers
per day, at a cost of $70 to $80 per month;
Whereas low-wage families and families
living in poverty often rely on community
donations for diapers;
Whereas addressing diaper need in local
communities can improve health conditions
and economic opportunities for infants, tod-
dlers, and their families;
Whereas many families delay changing a
diaper to extend their diaper supply, thereby
increasing the incidence of diaper derma-
titis, urinary tract infections, and other
health ailments;
Whereas families displaced by natural dis-
asters experience an acute need for diapers,
particularly as diapers are not consistently
provided through relief efforts;
Whereas diapers provided by diaper banks
and volunteer distribution projects amplify
the impact of resources deployed by larger
disaster relief organizations;
Whereas, in September 2011, the National
Diaper Bank Network was created to support
children and their families and to raise
awareness of diaper need among the general
public;
Whereas more than 1,000,000 diapers were
distributed along the Gulf Coast in the wake
of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma by nonprofit
diaper banks and diaper pantries that are
members of the National Diaper Bank Net-
work;
Whereas the National Diaper Bank Net-
work coordinates ongoing diaper supply ef-
forts in the aftermath of natural disasters
such as Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria,
the California wildfires, and the Midwestern
floods; and
Whereas, during 2017, the more than 300
nonprofit diaper banks and diaper pantries
that are members of the National Diaper
Bank Network distributed more than
64,000,000 donated diapers, helping ensure
that each month more than 225,000 children
in need received diapers: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) expresses its gratitude for the people
who operate or support diaper banks and dia-
per distribution programs in their local com-
munities;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.025 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2834 May 14, 2019
(2) supports the important efforts made by
diaper banks and diaper distribution pro-
grams in response to natural disasters; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to address diaper need by donating
generously to diaper banks, diaper pantries,
diaper drives, and organizations that dis-
tribute diapers to families in need.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 206—MARK-
ING THE 70TH ANNIVERSARY OF
THE FOUR GENEVA CONVEN-
TIONS OF 1949, EXPRESSING CON-
CERN ABOUT SIGNIFICANT VIO-
LATIONS OF INTERNATIONAL
HUMANITARIAN LAW ON CON-
TEMPORARY BATTLEFIELDS,
AND ENCOURAGING UNITED
STATES LEADERSHIP IN ENSUR-
ING GREATER RESPECT FOR
INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN
LAW IN CURRENT CONFLICTS,
PARTICULARLY WITH ITS SECU-
RITY PARTNERS
Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 206
Whereas the four Geneva Conventions of
1949, along with their Additional Protocols,
are the foundation of international humani-
tarian law (IHL), also known as the law of
armed conflict, the body of law that seeks to
ensure wars have limits;
Whereas 2019 marks the 70th anniversary of
the four Geneva Conventions of 1949 and
serves as a reminder of the importance and
continued relevance of IHL in a world with
proliferating and protracted armed conflicts,
unprecedented displacement, and immense
suffering;
Whereas the four Geneva Conventions of
1949 reflect more than just law; they reflect
the universal recognition that wars must be
fought humanely;
Whereas, at its core, IHL sets out a funda-
mental obligation that people, even in times
of armed conflict, must be treated with hu-
manity;
Whereas IHL requires all parties to armed
conflicts, whether states or non-state armed
groups, to comply with rules and basic prin-
ciples that seek to preserve the lives and dig-
nity of human beings, such as that: civilians
and civilian objects must not be targeted;
hospitals and medical personnel must be re-
spected and must not be attacked; no one
shall be subjected to torture or other forms
of ill treatment; and rape and other forms of
sexual violence are prohibited;
Whereas today’s conflicts are marred by
significant violations of IHL, the effects of
which are apparent across armed conflicts,
from restrictions on humanitarian access
contributing to the world’s worst cholera
outbreak in Yemen, to the use of chemical
weapons in Syria, in addition to attacks
against civilians, and attacks on medical
personnel and health facilities; to the Is-
lamic State’s use of civilians as human
shields; to widespread killings, sexual vio-
lence, and forced displacement in countries
such as Nigeria, South Sudan, the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia, and
elsewhere;
Whereas people detained in armed conflict,
including prisoners of war (POWs), often suf-
fer torture, abuse, and inhumane living con-
ditions, such as insufficient food, water, and
health services;
Whereas, while many states have taken
significant steps to ensure humane treat-
ment of detainees, and adequate living con-
ditions, many others still fail to comply with
basic standards of treatment and care as re-
quired by IHL;
Whereas, as mandated by the Geneva Con-
ventions, the International Committee of the
Red Cross (ICRC) plays a vital role in vis-
iting detainees in situations of armed con-
flict with a view to preventing torture and
other forms of ill-treatment, preventing dis-
appearances, improving overall detention
conditions, maintaining family contacts, and
promoting judicial guarantees;
Whereas the United States has an ex-
pressed preference for pursuing its military
objectives ‘‘by, with, and through’’ its secu-
rity partners in some parts of the world, but
state militaries and non-state armed groups
with which the United States partners may
lack sufficient commitment to IHL prin-
ciples or capabilities to conduct their oper-
ations in a manner that effectively mini-
mizes civilian harm;
Whereas it is essential, as a critical com-
ponent of its policies and diplomatic rela-
tions, that the United States affirms its
commitment to not only respect the rules of
IHL but to ensure respect by its partners and
adopt policies conditioning its security as-
sistance in this regard;
Whereas, as the nature of warfare changes,
IHL remains relevant to ensure wars are
fought with limits;
Whereas IHL was created to respond to
new developments and domains in warfare,
such as cyber operations, and new challenges
do not undermine the importance or rel-
evance of IHL, but rather call for affirming,
applying, and ensuring compliance with IHL;
Whereas sweeping counterterrorism meas-
ures and country-based sanctions have some-
times impeded neutral, impartial lifesaving
humanitarian action in countries like Soma-
lia and Syria;
Whereas the United States has a long tra-
dition of implementing and upholding IHL,
not just as a matter of legal obligation but
also because respect for human life and pro-
tecting the vulnerable reflects the best tra-
ditions of a professional military force;
Whereas United States senior military
leadership often publicly recognizes that
minimizing civilian harm is central to mis-
sion effectiveness and therefore serves the
United States national security interests;
and
Whereas, as long as armed conflict remains
a reality, there must also be a limit to suf-
fering, and IHL, as outlined 70 years ago in
the four Geneva Conventions of 1949, sets out
these limits: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) upon the 70th anniversary of the four
Geneva Conventions of 1949, respect for
international humanitarian law (IHL) re-
mains critical to upholding humanity in war,
protecting people affected by war, and pre-
venting suffering;
(2) the Executive branch and Congress
must ensure that the United States Govern-
ment, as the largest donor of lifesaving hu-
manitarian aid—
(A) does not employ counterterrorism
measures or other sanctions that unduly im-
pede lifesaving humanitarian action and
thereby jeopardize vulnerable people’s access
to resources critical to their survival; and
(B) upholds the longstanding United States
commitment to supporting principled hu-
manitarian action; and
(3) the United States must continue to be
a global leader in promoting and ensuring
compliance with IHL by upholding high
standards of conduct within the United
States Armed Forces, taking stronger meas-
ures to ensure compliance with IHL by
United States security partners, holding per-
petrators of violations of IHL accountable,
and seeking compliance with IHL by all par-
ties to armed conflict.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 207—CON-
GRATULATING THE SENATE
GLASS CAUCUS STAFF ASSOCIA-
TION FOR LESBIAN, GAY, BISEX-
UAL, AND TRANSGENDER SEN-
ATE STAFF ON THE 15-YEAR AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE ASSOCIA-
TION
Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
KAINE, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. BENNET, Ms. HIRONO, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. HEINRICH,
Mr. DURBIN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Ms. HAR-
RIS) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 207
Whereas, on April 23, 2004, several Senate
staffers joined to form a first-of-its-kind
staff association for lesbian, gay, bisexual,
and transgender (referred to in this preamble
as ‘‘LGBT’’) Senate staff and the allies of
LGBT Senate staff;
Whereas that staff association, known as
the Gay, Lesbian, Allies Senate Staff Cau-
cus, and commonly referred to as the ‘‘Sen-
ate GLASS Caucus’’, continues to serve the
Senate community by raising awareness of
issues affecting the LGBT community;
Whereas the Senate GLASS Caucus con-
tinues to promote the welfare and dignity of
LGBT Senate employees;
Whereas, for the first time in the 15-year
history of the Senate Glass Caucus, the Sen-
ate GLASS Caucus celebrates the fact that 2
openly LGBT Members are serving simulta-
neously in the Senate; and
Whereas the Senate GLASS Caucus strives
to provide a safe environment for social
interaction and professional development:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the Senate GLASS Cau-
cus staff association on the occasion of the
15th anniversary of the association;
(2) commends the late Senator Frank Ra-
leigh Lautenberg of New Jersey for—
(A) the critical role that Senator Lauten-
berg played in the formation of the Senate
GLASS Caucus; and
(B) the steadfast support of Senator Lau-
tenberg for equality; and
(3) recognizes the members of the inau-
gural Senate GLASS Caucus Steering Com-
mittee for the vision and hard work of those
members in establishing the Senate GLASS
Caucus, including—
(A) Lynden Armstrong;
(B) Brett Bearce;
(C) Josh Brekenfeld;
(D) John Fossum;
(E) Jason Knapp;
(F) Jeffrey Levensaler;
(G) Kelsey Phipps; and
(H) Mat Young.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 208—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF JULY AS
‘‘AMERICAN GROWN FLOWER
MONTH’’
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
HARRIS, and Mr. SULLIVAN) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.054 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2835
May 14, 2019
S. RES. 208
Whereas cut flower growers in the United
States are hard-working, dedicated individ-
uals who bring beauty, economic stimulus,
and pride to their communities and the
United States;
Whereas the people of the United States
have a long history of using flowers and
greens grown in the United States to bring
beauty to important events and express af-
fection for loved ones;
Whereas consumers spend almost
$27,000,000,000 each year on floral products,
including cut flowers, garden plants, bed-
ding, and indoor plants;
Whereas, each year, nearly 30 percent of
households in the United States purchase
fresh cut flowers and greens from more than
16,000 florists and floral establishments;
Whereas the people of the United States in-
creasingly want to support domestically pro-
duced foods and agricultural products and
would prefer to buy locally grown flowers
whenever possible, yet a majority of domes-
tic consumers do not know where the flowers
they purchase are grown;
Whereas, in response to increased demand,
the ‘‘Certified American Grown Flowers’’
logo was created in July 2014 in order to edu-
cate and empower consumers to purchase
flowers from domestic producers;
Whereas, as of April 2017, millions of stems
of domestically grown flowers are now ‘‘Cer-
tified American Grown’’;
Whereas domestic flower farmers produce
thousands of varieties of flowers across the
United States, such as peonies in Alaska,
Gerbera daisies in California, lupines in
Maine, tulips in Washington, lilies in Or-
egon, and larkspur in Texas;
Whereas the five flower varieties produced
in the largest quantities in the United States
are tulips, Gerbera daisies, lilies, gladiolas,
and irises;
Whereas people in every State have access
to domestically grown flowers, yet only one
in five flowers sold in the United States is
domestically grown;
Whereas the domestic cut flower industry
creates almost $42,000,000 in economic impact
daily and supports hundreds of growers,
thousands of small businesses, and tens of
thousands of jobs in the United States;
Whereas more people in the United States
are expressing interest in growing flowers lo-
cally, which has resulted in an increase of
approximately 20 percent in the number of
domestic cut flower farms between 2007 and
2012;
Whereas most domestic cut flowers and
greens are sold in the United States within
24 to 48 hours after harvest and last longer
than flowers shipped longer distances;
Whereas flowers grown domestically en-
hance the ability of the people of the United
States to festively celebrate weddings and
births and honor those who have passed;
Whereas flower giving has been a holiday
tradition in the United States for genera-
tions;
Whereas flowers speak to the beauty of
motherhood on Mother’s Day and to the spir-
it of love on Valentine’s Day;
Whereas flowers are an essential part of
other holidays such as Thanksgiving, Christ-
mas, Hanukkah, and Kwanzaa;
Whereas flowers help commemorate the
service and sacrifice of members of the
Armed Forces on Memorial Day and Vet-
erans Day; and
Whereas the Senate encourages the cul-
tivation of flowers in the United States by
domestic flower farmers: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of July as
‘‘American Grown Flower Month’’;
(2) recognizes that purchasing flowers
grown in the United States supports the
farmers, small businesses, jobs, and economy
of the United States;
(3) recognizes that growing flowers and
greens in the United States is a vital part of
the agricultural industry of the United
States;
(4) recognizes that cultivating flowers do-
mestically enhances the ability of the people
of the United States to festively celebrate
holidays and special occasions; and
(5) urges all people of the United States to
proactively showcase flowers and greens
grown in the United States in order to show
support for the flower farmers, processors,
and distributors in the United States as well
as agriculture in the United States overall.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 209—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF MAY 12
THROUGH MAY 18, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL POLICE WEEK’’
Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr. COONS,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. BROWN, Mr. DAINES,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. COR-
NYN, Mr. KING, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. CASEY,
Ms. MCSALLY, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. MCCON-
NELL, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
SULLIVAN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. JOHNSON,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. ISAKSON, Ms. ROSEN,
Mr. ENZI, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. ROUNDS,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. ROBERTS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BURR,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr.
JONES, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr. CAR-
PER, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
MORAN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. TOOMEY,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. REED, Mr. WICKER,
Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. GARDNER, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. UDALL, Mr. ROMNEY, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. COTTON, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. CASSIDY, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. LEE,
Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mr. THUNE, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. RISCH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. BLUNT, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. ERNST, Mr. SASSE, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. SHELBY, and
Mr. KENNEDY) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 209
Whereas Federal, State, local, and Tribal
police officers, sheriffs, and other law en-
forcement officers across the United States
serve with valor, dignity, and integrity;
Whereas law enforcement officers are
charged with—
(1) pursuing justice for all individuals; and
(2) performing the duties of a law enforce-
ment officer with fidelity to the constitu-
tional and civil rights of the public the offi-
cers serve;
Whereas law enforcement officers swear an
oath to uphold the public trust even though,
through the performance of the duties of a
law enforcement officer, the officers may be-
come targets for senseless acts of violence;
Whereas, in 1962, President John Fitzgerald
Kennedy signed Public Law 87–726 (36 U.S.C.
136) (referred to in this preamble as the
‘‘Joint Resolution’’), which authorizes the
President to proclaim May 15 of every year
as Peace Officers Memorial Day in honor of
the Federal, State, and local officers who
have been killed, disabled, or otherwise in-
jured in the line of duty;
Whereas the Joint Resolution also author-
izes the President to designate the week in
which Peace Officers Memorial Day falls as
National Police Week;
Whereas the National Law Enforcement
Officers Memorial, dedicated on October 15,
1991, is the national monument to honor
those law enforcement officers who have died
in the line of duty;
Whereas the 38th Annual National Peace
Officers Memorial Service honors the 159 law
enforcement officers killed in the line of
duty in 2018, including—
(1) William H. Allee;
(2) Michael J. Anson;
(3) Christopher T. Bacon;
(4) Daniel S. Baker;
(5) Thomas J. Barnitt;
(6) Mark J. Baserman;
(7) Paul R. Bauer;
(8) Steven Belanger;
(9) Benton H. Bertram;
(10) Justin T. Billa;
(11) Edward R. Bollman;
(12) John J. Brant;
(13) William H. Briggs;
(14) Jermaine T. Brown;
(15) Samuel N. Bullard;
(16) Lonnie V. Burton;
(17) Amy S. Caprio;
(18) Terrence F. Carraway;
(19) Greggory Casillas V;
(20) Michael C. Chesna;
(21) Anthony L. Christie;
(22) Nicholas F. Clark;
(23) Eugene P. Cole;
(24) Timothy D. Cole, Sr.;
(25) Jarate D. Condit;
(26) Kevin K. Conner;
(27) Jesus M. Cordova;
(28) Thomas M. Coulter;
(29) Mark A. Cox;
(30) Brian L. Crews;
(31) Kevin F. Crossley;
(32) Brian S. Cuscino;
(33) Glenn A. Doss;
(34) Micheal R. Doty;
(35) Christopher J. Driver;
(36) Keith O. Earle;
(37) Tyler J. Edenhofer;
(38) Hunter A. Edwards;
(39) Kyle L. Eng;
(40) Timothy A. Ensley;
(41) Pedro Esponda, Jr.;
(42) William P. Farley;
(43) Micah L. Flick;
(44) Edgar Flores;
(45) Jeffrey W. Francis;
(46) Jared W. Franks;
(47) Jarrod K. Friddle;
(48) Mark S. Gado;
(49) Sean M. Gannon;
(50) Conrad C. Gary;
(51) William J. Gentry, Jr.;
(52) Earl J. Givens III;
(53) Joseph B. Gomm;
(54) Walter Greene, Jr.;
(55) Kirk A. Griess;
(56) Heath M. Gumm;
(57) Richard W. Hale;
(58) Dale S. Hallman;
(59) Scotty Hamilton;
(60) Ron L. Helus;
(61) Christopher D. Hill;
(62) Tony Hinostroza III;
(63) Toshio Hirai;
(64) Garrett W. Hull;
(65) Jerry L. Hurd, Jr.;
(66) Charles G. Irvine, Jr.;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.056 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2836 May 14, 2019
(67) Samuel Jimenez;
(68) Raymond B. Jimmerson;
(69) Adam E. Jobbers-Miller;
(70) Eric J. Joering;
(71) Bronson K. Kaliloa;
(72) Theresa S. King;
(73) James L. Kirk, Jr.;
(74) Gary L. Koch;
(75) Robert K. Kunze III;
(76) Christopher M. Lawton;
(77) Andres Laza-Caraballo;
(78) Michael L. Ledek;
(79) David J. LeValley;
(80) Taylor F. Lindsey;
(81) Alexis T.E. Locklear;
(82) Richard Lopez;
(83) Chase L. Maddox;
(84) David Manning;
(85) Tawanna V. Marin;
(86) Eduardo Marmolejo;
(87) Larry E. Marrero;
(88) Mathew J. Mazany;
(89) Dennis P. McCarthy;
(90) Daniel A. McCartney;
(91) Francis A. McClelland, Jr.;
(92) Phillip L. Meacham;
(93) Deidre I. Mengedoht;
(94) Michael J. Michalski;
(95) Kevin M. Miller;
(96) W. Zachery M. Moak;
(97) Anthony P. Morelli;
(98) Diego Moreno;
(99) Matthew T. Moreno;
(100) Emmett P. Morris;
(101) Melissa S. Morrow;
(102) Christopher R. Morton;
(103) Stephen J. Mullen;
(104) Paul Murphy;
(105) Robert E. Nagle;
(106) Mark J. Natale;
(107) Vu X. Nguyen;
(108) Kathleen O’Connor-Funigiello;
(109) Joel A. Pantojas Fuentes;
(110) Joseph M. Parise;
(111) Jacob M. Pickett;
(112) Robert S. Pitts;
(113) Jason B. Quick;
(114) P. Scott Ragsdale;
(115) Noel Ramirez-Beltran, Jr.;
(116) Mujahid A.M. Ramzziddin;
(117) Dennis W. Reichardt;
(118) Nole E. Remagen;
(119) Oscar A. Reyes;
(120) Kirt R. Ricks III;
(121) Christopher Robateau;
(122) Aaron P. Roberts;
(123) Patrick T. Rohrer;
(124) David P. Romrell;
(125) Alex I. Sable;
(126) Charles R. Salaway;
(127) Rogelio Santander, Jr.;
(128) Jason M. Seals;
(129) David C. Sherrard;
(130) Casey L. Shoemate;
(131) Fadi M. Shukur;
(132) Basilio A. Simons;
(133) Leann Simpson;
(134) Ronil Singh;
(135) Michael W. Smith;
(136) Rodney S. Smith;
(137) Kevin J. Stanton;
(138) Mark V. Stasyuk;
(139) Kent D. Swanson;
(140) Sally A. Thompson;
(141) David A. Tinsley;
(142) Antwan D. Toney;
(143) Farrah B.G. Turner;
(144) Harry Valentin;
(145) Loren Y. Vasquez;
(146) Dennis B. Vincent;
(147) Benjamin D. Wallace;
(148) William H. Wanser;
(149) Darren M. Weathers;
(150) Lance C. Whitaker;
(151) Chase S. White;
(152) James K. White;
(153) Charles M. Whites, Jr.;
(154) Ayrian M. Williams;
(155) Malcus Williams II;
(156) Tamby Yagan;
(157) Kristopher D. Youngberg;
(158) Benjamin L. Zirbel; and
(159) Ryan D. Zirkle; and
Whereas, since the beginning of 2019, 41 law
enforcement officers from across the United
States have made the ultimate sacrifice:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of May 12 through
May 18, 2019, as ‘‘National Police Week’’;
(2) expresses strong support for law en-
forcement officers across the United States
in the efforts that those officers undertake
to build safer and more secure communities;
(3) recognizes the need to ensure that law
enforcement officers have the equipment,
training, and resources necessary to protect
the health and safety of the officers while
the officers are protecting the public;
(4) recognizes the law enforcement commu-
nity for the continual selfless acts of sac-
rifice and bravery carried out by the mem-
bers of that community;
(5) acknowledges that police officers and
other law enforcement personnel, especially
those who have made the ultimate sacrifice,
should be remembered and honored;
(6) expresses condolences to the loved ones
of each law enforcement officer who has
made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of
duty; and
(7) encourages the people of the United
States to observe National Police Week with
appropriate ceremonies and activities that
promote awareness of the vital role that law
enforcement officers perform in service to
the United States and the communities in
which those officers serve.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 210—SUP-
PORTING THE DESIGNATION OF
MAY 15, 2019, AS ‘‘NATIONAL SEN-
IOR FRAUD AWARENESS DAY’’
TO RAISE AWARENESS ABOUT
THE INCREASING NUMBER OF
FRAUDULENT SCHEMES TAR-
GETING SENIORS IN THE UNITED
STATES, TO ENCOURAGE THE IM-
PLEMENTATION OF POLICIES TO
PREVENT THOSE SCHEMES, AND
TO IMPROVE PROTECTIONS
FROM THOSE SCHEMES FOR
SENIORS
Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. CASEY,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. JONES, Mr. SCOTT of
Florida, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. MCSALLY, Ms.
WARREN, and Ms. SINEMA) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 210
Whereas, in 2035, there will be an estimated
78,000,000 individuals age 65 or older in the
United States (referred to in this preamble
as ‘‘seniors’’), compared to an estimated
76,700,000 individuals under the age of 18;
Whereas senior fraud is a growing concern
as millions of seniors in the United States
are targeted by scams each year, including
Internal Revenue Service impersonation
scams, identify theft or identity fraud in-
volving Social Security benefits and other
identity theft, sweepstakes and lottery
scams, grandparent scams, computer tech
support scams, romance scams, work-at-
home scams, charity scams, home improve-
ment scams, and fraudulent investment
schemes;
Whereas other types of fraud perpetrated
against seniors include health care fraud,
health insurance fraud, counterfeit prescrip-
tion drug fraud, funeral and cemetery fraud,
‘‘anti-aging’’ product fraud, telemarketing
fraud, and internet fraud;
Whereas the Government Accountability
Office has estimated that seniors lose a stag-
gering $2,900,000,000 each year to an ever-
growing array of financial exploitation
schemes and scams;
Whereas, since 2013, the fraud hotline of
the Special Committee on Aging of the Sen-
ate has received more than 8,200 complaints
reporting possible scams from individuals in
all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
Whereas the ease with which criminals
contact seniors through the internet and
telephone increases as more creative
schemes emerge;
Whereas, according to the Consumer Sen-
tinel Network Data Book 2018, released by
the Federal Trade Commission, people age 60
or older were defrauded of approximately
$391,000,000 in 2018, with the median loss to
defrauded victims age 80 or older averaging
$1,700 per person, more than double the aver-
age amount lost by victims between the ages
of 50 and 59;
Whereas senior fraud is underreported by
victims due to embarrassment and lack of
information about where to report fraud; and
Whereas May 15, 2019, is an appropriate day
to establish as ‘‘National Senior Fraud
Awareness Day’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of May 15, 2019,
as ‘‘National Senior Fraud Awareness Day’’;
(2) recognizes National Senior Fraud
Awareness Day as an opportunity to raise
awareness about the barrage of scams that
individuals age 65 or older in the United
States (referred to in this resolution as ‘‘sen-
iors’’) face in person, by mail, on the phone,
and online;
(3) recognizes that law enforcement, con-
sumer protection groups, area agencies on
aging, and financial institutions all play
vital roles in preventing scams targeting
seniors and educating seniors about those
scams;
(4) encourages implementation of policies
to prevent scams targeting seniors and to
improve measures to protect seniors from
those scams; and
(5) honors the commitment and dedication
of the individuals and organizations that
work tirelessly to fight against scams tar-
geting seniors.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 7
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to ru1e XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the fullowing committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, May 14, 2019, at time coin-
ciding with votes, to conduct a busi-
ness meeting.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, May 14, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.058 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2837
May 14, 2019
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, May 14, 2019, at 10:
15 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, May 14, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
May 14, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a
closed briefing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON AVIATION AND SPACE
The Subcommittee on Aviation and
Space of the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, May 14, 2019, at 3
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON PUBLIC LANDS, FORESTS,
AND MINING
The Subcommittee on Public Lands,
Forests, and Mining of the Committee
on Energy, and Natural Resources is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, May 14, 2019,
at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Robert Yu and
Laura Cannon, who are legislative fel-
lows in my office, be granted floor
privileges for the remainder of this
Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 986 AND H.R. 2157
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand that there are two bills at
the desk, and I ask for their first read-
ing en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 986) to provide that certain
guidance related to waivers for State innova-
tion under the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act shall have no force or ef-
fect.
A bill (H.R. 2157) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for a
second reading, and I object to my own
request, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
read the second time on the next legis-
lative day.
f
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 209, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 209) designating the
week of May 12 through May 18, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Police Week.’’
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 209) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
SUPPORTING THE DESIGNATION
OF MAY 15, 2019, AS ‘‘NATIONAL
SENIOR FRAUD AWARENESS
DAY’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 210, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 210) supporting the
designation of May 15, 2019, as ‘‘National
Senior Fraud Awareness Day’’ to raise
awareness about the increasing number of
fraudulent schemes targeting seniors in the
United States, to encourage the implementa-
tion of policies to prevent those schemes,
and to improve protections from those
schemes for seniors.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 210) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
REAUTHORIZING THE BULLET-
PROOF VEST PARTNERSHIP
GRANT PROGRAM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 82, S. 1231.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1231) to reauthorize the Bullet-
proof Vest Partnership Grant Program.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on the Judiciary with amendments, as
follows:
(The parts of the bill intended to be
stricken are shown in boldface brack-
ets and the parts of the bill intended to
be inserted are shown in italics.)
S. 1231
øBe it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,¿
SECTION 1. BULLETPROOF VEST PARTNERSHIP
GRANT PROGRAM REAUTHORIZA-
TION.
ø(a)¿ IN GENERAL.—Section 1001(a)(23) of
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10261(a)(23)) is amended by striking ‘‘part Y’’
and all that follows and inserting ‘‘part Y,
$30,000,000 for fiscal year 2020, and each fiscal
year thereafter.’’.
ƒ(b) PROGRAM NAME.—Part Y of title I of the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10531 et seq.) is amended by in-
serting before section 2501 the following:
ƒ‘‘SEC. 2500. PATRICK LEAHY BULLETPROOF VEST
PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.
ƒ‘‘The program under this part shall be
known as the ‘Patrick Leahy Bulletproof Vest
Partnership Grant Program’.’’.≈
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the committee-reported
amendments be agreed to; that the bill,
as amended, be considered read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendments
were agreed to.
The bill (S. 1231), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed, as follows:
S. 1231
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. BULLETPROOF VEST PARTNERSHIP
GRANT PROGRAM REAUTHORIZA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1001(a)(23) of title
I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10261(a)(23)) is
amended by striking ‘‘part Y’’ and all that
follows and inserting ‘‘part Y, $30,000,000 for
fiscal year 2020, and each fiscal year there-
after.’’.
(b) PROGRAM NAME.—Part Y of title I of the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10531 et seq.) is amended by
inserting before section 2501 the following:
‘‘SEC. 2500. PATRICK LEAHY BULLETPROOF VEST
PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.
‘‘The program under this part shall be
known as the ‘Patrick Leahy Bulletproof
Vest Partnership Grant Program’.’’.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, MAY 15,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY6.059 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2838 May 14, 2019
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Wednesday, May
15; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Lee nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. If there is no fur-
ther business to come before the Sen-
ate, I ask unanimous consent that it
stand adjourned under the previous
order, following the remarks of our
Democratic colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
f
NOMINATION OF WENDY VITTER
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, later this week, Wendy Vitter
will receive a vote on her nomination
to the U.S. District Court for the East-
ern District of Louisiana. Once our
votes are cast, she almost certainly
will be confirmed by a slim margin on
largely partisan lines, and she will join
the Federal judiciary for a lifetime
tenure. My hope is that my Republican
colleagues will think again and that
some of them will demonstrate some
conscience and conviction based on
principles that I think are more impor-
tant than any single district court
judge and indeed more important than
any of us individually, because Ms. Vit-
ter will never again face public ac-
countability for her fitness, her moral
character, and her fidelity to the bed-
rock norms of our time. She will be in-
sulated from all political process.
That is what we afford our judiciary.
It is the right thing to do. They ought
to be, in effect, guardians of the Con-
stitution with lifetime appointments
that protect them from political vin-
dictiveness or revenge. But that inde-
pendence must be earned. It is earned
by vetting through a public confirma-
tion process. The Founders placed that
responsibility in this body with us, and
for nearly a century, these confirma-
tion hearings have helped the Amer-
ican public judge our would-be judges
and weed out our wildly radical or
unfit nominees. The confirmation proc-
ess is a vetting that includes a hearing
and then a committee vote and then a
vote here in the Senate.
On the most basic principles of the
confirmation process, Ms. Vitter fails
to pass muster. She failed to produce
more than 100 speeches, interviews, and
press articles to the Senate Judiciary
Committee for review. She defiantly
declined to answer my question on one
of the baseline notions of constitu-
tional liberty—the correctness of the
Supreme Court’s decision in Brown v.
Board of Education.
As a member of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, I ask these questions to
every nominee when they appear be-
cause I believe it is unquestionably an
important reason for considering
whether to vote for these nominees—
their beliefs as to whether Brown v.
Board of Education and other well-es-
tablished precedents are indeed cor-
rectly decided.
This iconic ruling of the U.S. Su-
preme Court is special even among
those well-established decisions. Any-
one who fails to endorse such a sac-
rosanct decision is clearly out of the
legal and societal mainstream and un-
worthy of confirmation.
When I asked Ms. Vitter if she
thought Brown v. Board was correctly
decided, here is how she responded:
I don’t mean to be coy, but I think I can
get into a difficult, difficult area when I
start commenting on Supreme Court deci-
sions which are correctly decided and which
I may disagree with. Again, my personal, po-
litical, or religious views I would set aside.
That is Supreme Court precedent.
I was stunned by her answer. I am
still stunned to read it back. I am
tempted to read it again out of dis-
belief. Brown is woven into the fabric
of our Nation. How could anyone sug-
gest disagreeing with Brown, as she
did, and then say: Well, even though I
disagree with Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation, I would follow it. That answer
says something very profound about
the person giving it.
In 2019, the only reasonable answer to
my question—‘‘Do you think Brown v.
Board of Education was correctly de-
cided?’’—is a resounding yes. Brown is
about more than just its historic rul-
ing; a separate but equal school is in-
herently unequal and unconstitutional.
A segregated school, even if it is called
equal, is inherently unequal. That is
Brown. It is about core values and prin-
ciples deeply embedded in the constitu-
tional consensus that binds and bonds
our constitutional democracy. It is
about more than just the words on
paper; it is about our values and our
principles, what holds us together as a
nation.
When nominees like Ms. Vitter refuse
to say that a seminal case like Brown
was correctly decided and instead
merely says that it is precedent, that
it is a binding decision, what they are
asserting essentially is that a case that
is decided is only a decision, that it is
only good law until it is reversed.
The reason for giving such an answer
is that Ms. Vitter and the vast major-
ity of President Trump’s nominees do
not really think that a lot of Supreme
Court precedent is correct, and they
would be perfectly happy for reversals.
We know that the President has a lit-
mus test for his judicial nominees. He
has told us repeatedly that he will ap-
point judges who will overturn another
landmark Supreme Court decision, Roe
v. Wade.
What is particularly striking and
pernicious about Ms. Vitter’s answer to
my question on Brown is that her ex-
treme views on Roe, abortion, and re-
productive rights are already well
known and authoritatively established.
In May 2013, at an anti-choice protest
outside the future site of a Planned
Parenthood clinic, Ms. Vitter said:
Planned Parenthood says they promote
women’s health. It is the saddest of ironies
that they kill over 150,000 females a year.
The first step in promoting women’s health
is to let them live.
This is a radical view. It is wrong on
the facts. It makes no secret of what
Ms. Vitter thinks about the precedent
of Roe, and it is worth noting that Ms.
Vitter initially didn’t even disclose
this speech to the Senate.
In November of 2013, Ms. Vitter mod-
erated a panel at the conference for
Louisiana Right to Life titled ‘‘Abor-
tion Hurts Women’s Health.’’ Again,
Ms. Vitter did not disclose this to the
Senate. On the panel was a so-called
‘‘expert’’ who falsely claimed that con-
traception pills are linked to cancer,
an absurd and very dangerous lie. Ms.
Vitter advocated that viewers
download this speaker’s brochure and
ask their doctors to display it saying:
‘‘Each one of you can be a pro-life ad-
vocate.’’
At her confirmation hearing, a num-
ber of Senators asked Ms. Vitter
whether she believed the claims made
in the brochure. She refused to answer
and insisted she had not studied the de-
tails of the brochure. How strange that
she asked the audience of her panel dis-
cussion to have their doctors display
it. At the same Louisiana Right to Life
event, Ms. Vitter applauded Texas for
the ‘‘great strides in making it very
difficult to get abortions in Texas.’’
Ms. Vitter was applauding a law that
requires physicians who perform abor-
tions to have admitting privileges at a
nearby hospital, and it required abor-
tion clinics in the State to have facili-
ties comparable to an ambulatory sur-
gical center. The Supreme Court
struck down the law as unconstitu-
tional because it would have closed
most clinics in Texas and placed an
undue burden on Texas women to ac-
cess safe, legal abortion services.
As a district court judge, Ms. Vitter
undoubtedly would have upheld this
unconstitutional restriction of a wom-
an’s right to choose. She celebrated a
Louisiana law that forced women to
look at an ultrasound before having an
abortion. These kinds of requirements
serve no medical purpose, which is why
they have been struck down. They are
only an obstruction to a woman’s right
over her own reproductive health, and
they conflict with basic Supreme Court
principles about the rights of privacy
under the Constitution.
Federal judges are entrusted with
this kind of lifetime appointment be-
cause they will be neutral arbiters.
They will give everyone a fair, impar-
tial hearing and rule on the facts and
the law. That is the theory. Ms. Vitter,
despite her best efforts to hide her
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.032 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2839
May 14, 2019
record, despite her continuing sugges-
tion about different views and her re-
fusal to answer questions on bedrock
principles, has showed what her true
beliefs are in her writings, her state-
ments, and her activities. We know
about Wendy Vitter, for sure. She will
not be an unbiased umpire. When it
comes to abortion and reproductive
rights, we know that she is too ideolog-
ical to simply call balls and strikes.
That is why she was nominated, and
that is why she was chosen. She passed
that litmus test imposed by this ad-
ministration and this President. She is
part of those efforts to remake the
Federal judiciary in the image of the
far-right, extremist fringe.
I cannot support this nominee, and I
urge my colleagues to oppose her. I will
be voting against her on Thursday of
this week when her confirmation vote
is scheduled.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, cli-
mate change is already wreaking havoc
on the American economy, and anyone
who cares today about having a strong
economy in 10, 20, or 30 years needs to
be committed to acting now.
We are already seeing the economic
risks related to climate change. Tem-
peratures are rising, sea levels are ris-
ing, and extreme weather events are
becoming more frequent and more se-
vere.
Ask families in California whose
homes and businesses have been burned
to the ground in record-setting fires or
construction workers in Texas who
have to cut their hours because of the
heat or farmers in Nebraska, where the
State Farm Bureau estimates that this
spring’s flood will cost ranchers $500
million and will cost grain farmers $400
million. Farm bankruptcies were al-
ready at a 10-year high even before the
flooding.
We are getting closer to long-term
tipping points. Within 30 years, which
is a typical span of a mortgage, nearly
400,000 existing homes in the U.S.
coastal areas are at risk of being un-
inhabitable. These homes collectively
are worth about $210 billion. That is
more than four times the estimated in-
sured losses of Hurricane Katrina.
The ‘‘National Climate Assessment’’
says that $1 trillion worth of coastal
real estate in the United States is
threatened by the effects of climate
change. The assessment also shows
that labor productivity will take a hit.
Under one scenario, the Southeast
United States alone could lose $47 bil-
lion in productivity each year.
The ‘‘National Climate Assessment’’
also predicts that maize and soybean
yields will each be down as much as 25
percent across the Midwest by
midcentury, mostly due to hot tem-
peratures. In other words, we are look-
ing at a real estate bubble, massive
changes in productivity, and increased
disaster costs for State and Federal
governments.
It is no wonder that experts say that
climate change is the top economic
risk facing our planet today. The World
Economic Forum has warned us that
we are ‘‘sleepwalking into catas-
trophe.’’ Citigroup estimates that
world economies could lose at least $44
trillion in economic activity between
now and the year 2060. Actuaries name
climate change the No. 1 risk to insur-
ers in North America.
All of those individuals and institu-
tions and companies and agencies that
just described the risks related to cli-
mate change—I have no idea how they
feel about birds and butterflies. I have
no idea if they care about conservation
on a personal level. I don’t know if
they surf or they snowboard or they
hike or they bird-watch. I don’t know
how much they care about the natural
environment. I do know they care
about money, and they are paid to care
about money, and they are very wor-
ried about the impact that climate
change will have on our economy.
You will notice that this is not a tra-
ditional climate speech. I got involved
in climate because I care, but I under-
stand that not everybody has the lux-
ury of worrying about the birds and the
butterflies and the creatures in the
ocean. A lot of people worry every day
about whether they are going to be
able to put food on the table, and a lot
of people worry about the value of
their home and value of their 401(k)
and whether the government is going
to be consumed with these disaster
costs.
You should be worried about the new
and growing risks of droughts, floods,
storms, wildfires, and sea level rise be-
cause these events reduce the value of
assets. They decrease investment in-
come. They can increase insured and
uninsured losses. In other words, they
promise to disrupt financial institu-
tions. That means the health of our fi-
nancial system is at stake.
There are now 36 central banks and
financial regulators around the world
who are worried about climate’s eco-
nomic impact and how to plan for it,
including the UK, Germany, Australia,
Canada, France, Japan, and China.
They have come together to work on
developing the tools to assess climate
change risk to the financial system.
This is not the ecological system, and
these are not communities. This is
about money and how much money is
at risk when it comes to climate
change.
The Bank of England is planning to
include climate impacts in its bank’s
stress tests as early as next year, and
the central bank of the Netherlands is
doing more to include climate-related
risks in its financial supervision. Yet
guess who is not part of this group of 36
countries that is trying to develop the
analytic tools to figure out what im-
pacts climate change is going to have
on our economic system—the United
States.
The three Federal Government Agen-
cies that oversee the financial system
are taking a unique approach to this
problem by putting their heads in the
sand. I know this because I asked
them. I was part of a group of 20 Sen-
ators who sent a letter to the Federal
Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC, and
asked them how they are accounting
for climate change risks to our finan-
cial system. Their response was basi-
cally—listen, extreme weather shocks
happen all the time. As for the risks of
climate change, since they are so far
out and hard to quantify, our regu-
lators book that risk at zero. Now
think about the absurdity of this. It is
not that they are saying the risk
doesn’t exist. They are conceding that
it exists. They are just saying it is so
hard to quantify that they have de-
cided it is nothing.
There are all kinds of risks that all
of these supervisory institutions evalu-
ate on a regular basis. That is their
job. They have these big manuals that
they use—these thick manuals—to su-
pervise banks and financial institu-
tions. They can look at how much ex-
cess capital you have, how much expo-
sure you have to a real estate bubble,
or how much exposure you may have to
a downturn in the economy. They have
decided the risk related to climate
change is nothing at all.
This is in direct contrast to almost
every other industrialized country and
its regulatory agency. It doesn’t mat-
ter what their politics are—whether
they are run by rightwing or leftwing
governments; everyone else is taking
the financial risk related to climate
change seriously except the United
States. Everyone—the insurance indus-
try, the defense community, the intel-
ligence community, the international
community—knows that climate is at
increasing risk. They all know that cli-
mate change is real and that it is im-
pacting our financial system right now,
that it is impacting the finances of
publicly held corporations and banks
and the government itself. The U.S. fi-
nancial community needs to join them.
Let me end by saying this: We don’t
have to agree on the many ways in
which we should be acting on climate
change. It is OK if you hate my bill,
with my good friend Senator WHITE-
HOUSE, on a carbon fee. It is OK if you
think we should do the Green New Deal
or not do the Green New Deal. It is OK
if you think the Paris Agreement is
bad or good. You get to think what you
want, but you cannot ignore the risk
that climate change is imposing on our
financial system. You don’t get to
think that this cost—that this risk—is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.033 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2840 May 14, 2019
not material. You don’t get to think
that we should do nothing.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, let me first thank my friend Sen-
ator SCHATZ, of Hawaii, for joining me
on the floor today to talk about the fi-
nancial hazards that are associated
with ignoring climate change. He has
been a really terrific leader on this
subject. I have to say that I am some-
times a little bit embarrassed that
Rhode Island is the Ocean State when
Hawaii has so much ocean out there in
the Pacific. I guess that is what you
get for getting there first, but I am de-
lighted that Senator SCHATZ is here.
What I want to do in my time here,
in my following up on Senator SCHATZ’
remarks, is to go through some of the
recent warnings that have come out.
One I will go back to from last year,
and the other ones I will follow up on
quickly. They are all between March 25
of this year and now, just in the last
couple of months.
The one from last year is a Wall
Street Journal article that documented
the increasing climate risk and the in-
surance industry’s need to recalculate.
It had the legendary investor—the
‘‘Wizard of Omaha’’—Warren Buffett
warning that if reinsurance contracts—
and he is a reinsurance guy—covered 30
years, he would be crazy not to include
climate risks. Those were his words.
The article goes on to point out that
climate change may be gradual but
that its effects are volatile. It is like
something steady for a long time and
then, in the words of the article, a sud-
den large, unexpected hit. ‘‘You can
have an increased potential for an out-
sized loss in a single year,’’ and they
conclude ‘‘there’s a cost for inaction.’’
What we are doing here, which is noth-
ing on climate change, has a very sig-
nificant cost.
The article points out that after Hur-
ricane Andrew hit Florida, 13 insurance
companies were ordered liquidated be-
cause they were not adequately well
prepared. The risks are going up pre-
cipitously. The probability of a Texas
storm dropping about 20 inches of rain
was about 1 percent a year until 2000,
and it is expected to increase to 18 per-
cent a year—an 18-times increase in
the risk of that level of storm and
flooding.
Swiss Re says in the article that
coastal flooding could leave certain
coastal areas ‘‘so exposed, insurance
becomes no longer viable. It becomes
uninsurable.’’ Indeed, in this article, it
points out that if you take climate
change into account, flood losses could
exceed $1 trillion per year by 2050. In
saying this, it aligns with Moody’s, the
famous bond evaluator and insurer,
which is going to start evaluating mu-
nicipal bonds for coastal communities
based on their preparation for coastal
risk. This is not some green organiza-
tion. When it is starting to evaluate,
something is going on.
Freddie Mac has warned of a coastal
property values crash that could be as
serious as the 2008 mortgage meltdown.
Again, Freddie Mac is not a green or
environmental group. It is warning
about a coming risk. We will not listen
to those risks because too many people
here are told what to do and what to
think by the fossil fuel industry.
Just recently, on March 25, 2019, a
Federal Reserve research paper warned
that climate risk could cause a finan-
cial crisis: Losses from natural disas-
ters magnified by higher temperatures
and elevated sea levels could spark a fi-
nancial crisis. The article identified
the three key forces that are trans-
forming the economy in our time, and
one of those three is climate change.
This is not some side-bar issue. It
quoted the latest National Climate As-
sessment. ‘‘Without substantial and
sustained global mitigation and re-
gional adaptation efforts, climate
change is expected to cause growing
losses to American infrastructure and
property and impede the rate of eco-
nomic growth over this century.’’ The
reason, it describes, is due to a funda-
mental market failure. ‘‘Carbon fuel
prices do not properly account for cli-
mate change costs.’’ Of course, the fos-
sil fuel industry loves that market fail-
ure, but we should not tolerate it if we
purport to believe in a market econ-
omy.
Senator SCHATZ and I support a car-
bon fee. They call it a carbon tax,
pointing out that it can appropriately
incentivize innovations, which we need,
and that it should equal the social cost
of carbon, which our bill does. It also
points out that we are creating a risk
for generations to come. We might get
off pretty free in terms of the punch
that comes back, but our kids and our
grandkids are not going to think that
we did a very responsible job here.
What are the increasing financial
risks the article mentions? They are
business interruptions in bankruptcies,
unexpected losses in the value of assets
or companies, and climate-based credit
risk exposure, particularly in my
coastal State, which is concerned
about loans to affected businesses or
mortgages on coastal real estate—
again, lining up with what Freddie Mac
and others have said about the dangers
of a coastal property value crash.
The next article of April 4,
BlackRock, which is the world’s larg-
est asset manager, warns that inves-
tors are underpricing the impact of cli-
mate-related risks. The report points
out that all major U.S. metropolitan
areas were already suffering mild to
moderate losses to GDP as a result of
climate change—already suffering
that—and that the risk of a property
being hit by a category 5 hurricane was
expected to rise by 275 percent if no cli-
mate action were taken.
This is a map from that article of the
economic impacts of climate change.
All of the reds are in real trouble; the
tans are in trouble; yellows are in some
trouble; trouble for the light green, and
green is very scarce and is seeing a lit-
tle bit of GDP improvement. Yet, if
you look at the map, that is a country
that is hurting economically as a re-
sult of climate change.
OK. Four days later, on April 8, EPA
scientists published an article that cli-
mate change will cost the U.S. hun-
dreds of billions of dollars per year. Un-
checked, climate change will cost the
United States hundreds of billions of
dollars per year. Cutting emissions of
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse
gases would prevent a lot of the dam-
age and reduce the annual economic
toll in some sectors by more than half.
Unmitigated warming could reduce the
global GDP by as much as 20 percent,
said a related report by the British
Government.
Now, think about that. You are going
to take a 20-percent hit to the global
GDP. What does that do? That is an
economic downturn of a very dark
order. It also points out that the cost
of inaction is really high and that the
cost of reducing emissions pales in
comparison.
We are taking the more dangerous
and expensive path because the group
that gets hurt has control over this
body, the fossil fuel industry. Yet, as
other warnings will point out, it can’t
change the inevitable. All it can do is
postpone it, and the inevitable then
gets worse. It warns that damage to
coastal property, primarily on the gulf
and east coast, will reach $120 billion
per year.
If you are from a noncoastal State,
you may think that is funny. I am from
a coastal State, and I don’t think that
is funny at all. I think my colleagues
should take a warning like that seri-
ously. The benefits that the country
stands to reap by cutting greenhouse
gas emissions was another theme.
There is an upside here. We win eco-
nomically by cutting greenhouse gas
emissions. If we don’t, the cost is hun-
dreds of billions of dollars.
Next, on the same day of April 8, 2019,
a CNBC article, in summarizing an
Urban Land Institute report, warns
that for real estate investors in par-
ticular, risk is rising exponentially in
the age of climate change to the point
at which a new cottage industry of
companies has emerged that assess cli-
mate risk to real estate. ‘‘Climate
change,’’ the article reads, ‘‘is likely to
have a bigger impact on valuation in
the future as asset and market liquid-
ity are affected.’’
Asset and market liquidity mean
that the market seizes up, that you
can’t sell your house. Of course, that
matches Freddie Mac’s prediction be-
cause, if the person you are trying to
sell your house to can’t get a mortgage
because the bank thinks, at the end of
30 years, the property is going to be lit-
erally underwater or that the bank will
not be able to get insurance for its
mortgage, suddenly, you have a real
problem in selling that house. Now you
are only selling to cash buyers, and
that is a dramatic shift in the price
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.039 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2841
May 14, 2019
you can get. That is why Freddie Mac
is talking about the coastal property
value crash.
The following day, on April 9, the in-
vestment advisory firm Mercer comes
out with another report that describes
this warning is the latest from the fi-
nancial sector of the physical and fi-
nancial risks posed by rising tempera-
tures. Some investment strategists
warn of physical and social damage
cascading across the economy.
Again, these are not environmental-
ists. This is an investment advisory
firm. It is warning us of financial perils
ahead if we don’t start paying atten-
tion. A part of it is the loss in value or
simply the outright loss of wide swaths
of coastal property. So, when I come
back to rely on mine as a coastal
State, I hope my colleagues here can
appreciate that this isn’t funny when
you are talking about the loss of value
or simply about the outright loss of
wide swaths of coastal property.
The scenarios aren’t good. They are
negative for global growth, and they
aren’t really great for anyone. It is a
declining global economy that has no
big winners spiking up, and it can
move fast. Asset prices, they say, could
quickly shift to reflect the risk. There
could be material impacts, especially
at the sector level, in a relatively short
period of time. That is how crashes
work. They creep up on you, and then
they crash. That is why they call them
crashes.
Next, on April 18, 2019—9 days later—
we have the central banks. Thirty cen-
tral banks around the world called for
a better assessment of the risks from
higher global temperatures. As Senator
SCHATZ pointed out, the U.S. Fed and
the Central Bank of Brazil were among
the institutions not involved in the ini-
tiative. It is pathetic on our part.
Climate change is identified as a
source of financial risk that these fi-
nancial regulators feel is well within
their mandate to begin to address.
They considered that the report issued
a loud wake-up call for the global econ-
omy to act on climate change. Good
luck getting through the muscling of
the fossil fuel industry around this par-
ticular building, but the wake-up call
is ringing in the financial community.
Mark Carney, the Governor of the
Bank of England—who was warned
about this previously—and Villeroy de
Galhau, the Governor of the Bank of
France, warned that climate change
and the poor management of the tran-
sition to a low-carbon economy have
the potential to trigger a ‘‘sudden col-
lapse in asset prices that could dev-
astate the global financial systems.’’
‘‘If some companies and industries
fail to adjust to this new world,’’ they
argue, ‘‘they will fail to exist.’’
Again, as others have said, the arti-
cle argues that the costs of
decarbonization are likely to be small
compared to the costs of not taking ac-
tion.
Yet again, we are listening to the fos-
sil fuel industry here. It has a huge
stake in all of this. It has a huge con-
flict of interest. It has control over a
significant part of Congress, and it is
blocking us from taking the essential
safe, low-cost path.
The last one is from April 17, the
Network for Greening the Financial
System, which is the comprehensive re-
port by a group of central banks.
Again, it points out that these climate-
related risks are a source of financial
risk.
Indeed, the head of the Bank of Eng-
land—the regulator for insurance and
banking in the UK—has described this
as a systemic risk. What is a systemic
risk? That means that when the entity
collapses, like when the carbon asset
bubble collapses, it doesn’t just take
the carbon asset bubble companies
down with it; the rest of the economy
pours in behind, and you have a sys-
temic economic meltdown. Just like
happened in 2003, it wasn’t just the
banks with the junk mortgages that
failed; a whole bunch of others busi-
nesses got sucked into that vortex, and
the same is predicted here.
They point out a couple of final
things about the nature of this finan-
cial risk:
One, it is far-reaching in its breadth
and magnitude. That is an ominous de-
scription of a financial risk. It is po-
tentially aggravated by tipping points
in a nonlinear fashion; i.e., it gets to a
certain point and then crashes. We New
Englanders appreciate this when we
have the snow melt in the springtime.
The snow piles up on the roof of your
house. It piles up storm by storm and
snowflake by snowflake. But one warm
spring day, you suddenly hear
‘‘woomph’’ outside because the whole
snowpack on your roof has slid off. It is
a catastrophic failure of snow adhesion
in that case. In this case, it is an exam-
ple of how quickly a nonlinear tipping
point can lead into economic distress.
Two, it is foreseeable. We know it is
coming. There is a high degree of cer-
tainty that these risks will mate-
rialize. We know perfectly well this is
coming; we just won’t do anything
about it because the people who have
to deal with it first—the fossil fuel in-
dustry—have this place tied in knots.
Three, irreversibility. When it hap-
pens, there is no going back. There is
currently no mature technology to re-
verse the process of overheating our
climate and acidifying our ocean. For
our children and grandchildren and
their children and grandchildren, that
leaves a pretty bleak prospect that we
have just discounted away as if they
weren’t going to be born, as if they
didn’t exist now, as if this weren’t
going to happen, as if we shouldn’t
care. Irreversibility.
Here is the last one: dependency on
short-term actions. The magnitude and
the nature of these irreversible, fore-
seeable, far-reaching, future impacts
will be determined by actions taken
today. It will be determined by actions
taken today. If we don’t make the
right decisions now, our mistakes, our
indolence, our ignorance, our greed,
our subservience to this industry—
whatever it is—will cascade through
the decades irreversibly with far-reach-
ing impact. They will look back at us
and say: It was foreseeable. Didn’t you
guys know this was foreseeable? You
were told. You were warned. How could
you have done nothing?
I don’t have a very good answer.
It is time to wake up.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
f
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, each
year during National Police Week we
honor our law enforcement officers and
the families who support them and sac-
rifice alongside them. It is so impor-
tant to remember that, as much as the
sacrifice of the officer or the man or
woman overseas fighting for our coun-
try, the sacrifice of the family is in
many ways just as great.
They all give so much in service to
their communities. Too many make
the ultimate sacrifice to keep us safe.
This year we add the names of four
Ohioans to the National Law Enforce-
ment Officers Memorial. Ohioans who
laid down their lives last year were Of-
ficer Eric Joering of Westerville, a Co-
lumbus suburb; Officer Anthony Mo-
relli, also of Westerville; Officer Vu
Nguyen of Cleveland; and Officer Mat-
thew Mazany, of Mentor, a community
east of Cleveland along Lake Erie.
Each of these losses is a tragedy for a
family, for a community, for their fel-
low officers.
Sadly, we already know the names of
two people who will be added to the
memorial next year: Detective William
Brewer of the Clermont County Sher-
iff’s Office east of Cincinnati and Offi-
cer Dale Woods of the Colerain Town-
ship Police Department near Cin-
cinnati. Both were killed in the line of
duty in 2019.
We can’t begin to repay the debt we
owe them and their families, but we
can work harder, frankly, to support
their families and their fellow officers
as they work to keep our communities
safe.
It is why I am working with my col-
league Senator PORTMAN on our bipar-
tisan POWER Act to get officers the
tools they need to screen for dangerous
opioids in their communities.
This bill builds on my INTERDICT
Act, which the President signed into
law last year. That law is getting new,
portable, handheld screening devices to
Customs and Border Protection agents
to detect fentanyl and carfentanil at
the U.S. border and stop them before
they reach Ohio streets.
The POWER Act will give our local
and State law enforcement access to
the same high-tech tools.
All of our law enforcement officers
know how big of an issue illegal
fentanyl has become. They deal with it,
it seems, almost every day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.040 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2842 May 14, 2019
This week I am joining Senator
INHOFE to introduce the bipartisan Law
Enforcement Training for Mental
Health Crisis Response Act.
We have seen too many officers hurt.
We have seen far too many police offi-
cers and sheriff’s deputies and Federal
agents killed responding to people in
their communities suffering a mental
health crisis. This bill would invest in
training to help officers resolve those
situations safely for themselves and for
the communities they serve.
This National Police Week, let’s offer
more than gratitude to the people who
put their lives on the line to keep us
safe. Let’s support these women and
men by getting them the tools they
need to do their jobs for themselves
and for our communities.
f
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, over
the past couple of months, we have
seen State legislatures around the
country taking drastic, unconstitu-
tional steps to insert themselves into
personal, private healthcare decisions
that should be—and have been in the
past—between a woman and her doctor.
Ohio and Georgia, two States that
wouldn’t seem on the surface to have
that much in common, have both
passed laws that would fundamentally
eliminate a woman’s right to make her
own healthcare decisions.
Who made these laws? It is always
the same. It is predominantly men who
don’t even understand how women’s
bodies and how preventive care like
birth control work.
We have one Ohio legislator, a man,
who sponsored a bill banning insurance
companies from covering certain types
of birth control, and then he admitted
he didn’t really know how birth control
actually works.
When asked about the different kinds
of medications and birth control de-
vices, he said: ‘‘I don’t know because
I’m not smart enough to know.’’ But he
thinks he should make decisions for
women.
You would think he is smart enough
to know better. You would think that
millions of Ohio women know best how
to take care of their own bodies.
He was also making up medical pro-
cedures. He actually wrote into a
version of the Ohio bill an exception al-
lowing insurance companies to cover a
made-up medical procedure where a
doctor would reimplant an egg from an
ectopic pregnancy.
This is a total fantasy. No such med-
ical procedure exists, yet that is what
he did.
He is 1 of 99 votes in the Ohio legisla-
ture, and he happens to be in the ma-
jority, and he happens to be one of the
authors of these bills, and he happens
to be a supporter of whatever it takes
to put Planned Parenthood out of busi-
ness.
It is not only idiotic to suggest that
those medical procedures exist, it is ac-
tively harmful to spread information,
not to mention insensitive or cruel—
that might be the better word—to the
women and families coping with the
very real struggles involved in an ec-
topic pregnancy. That inaccuracy in
the law could create serious confusion
about how and when doctors could
treat women for ectopic pregnancies
and put women’s health at risk.
After he was asked over and over
again what in the world he was talking
about, he said: ‘‘That’s clearly not my
area of expertise.’’
Yet he was going to legislate in an
area where, self-admittedly, he didn’t
have expertise. He was going to tell
women what they had to do—fantasy or
not—with birth control. He was going
to try to tell women what to do with
their own bodies. He thought it was a
good idea to legislate on it and to in-
sert himself in the medical decisions of
millions of women in my State.
Unfortunately, this administration is
only making things worse. President
Trump and the men he has put in
charge, the judges he has appointed—
look at the Supreme Court—put their
thumb on the scale of justice, always
choosing corporations over workers, al-
ways choosing Wall Street over con-
sumers, always choosing insurance
companies over sick people and, frank-
ly, increasingly over women’s bodies
and women’s decisions.
President Trump and the men he has
put in charge are encouraging these
male lawmakers in States like Ohio
and Georgia and Alabama, where it
may be worst of all—they are taking
the country backward when it comes to
women’s health.
Rather than making it easier for
women to get care, they make it hard-
er. This administration put out a new
rule 2 weeks ago that would allow
healthcare providers to refuse to pro-
vide needed care for a woman if the
treatment supposedly violates their
personal beliefs.
In other words, if a woman had a mis-
carriage and she came in needing emer-
gency care, the doctor could refuse to
treat her simply based on his own per-
sonal issues and biases. How does that
follow the physician mantra of ‘‘do no
harm’’?
It is not just medical professionals
who could refuse care; it is hospitals,
and it is insurance companies too. I
don’t know how anyone could suggest a
for-profit insurance company has a
conscience, yet, apparently under these
kinds of laws, it does.
Under this rule, an insurance com-
pany can consider the coverage of some
services—and we know these are al-
ways services related to women, and
they are always services related to
LGBTQ people, all Americans—against
that corporation’s supposed conscience.
So if the corporation doesn’t believe in
human rights, doesn’t believe in equal-
ity of gay people, of LGBTQ people,
doesn’t believe women should have con-
trol over their bodies, that corpora-
tion, licensed under the law—they have
a conscience, and they can refuse care.
That is what these legislatures are
doing, and that is what this President
wants to do.
That conscience clause that these
corporations and these insurance com-
panies say they believe—I wish that
conscience clause would kick in when
they are raising premiums, when they
deny people coverage for their medica-
tion. When they take away an exclu-
sion for a preexisting condition, where
they cancel someone’s insurance or
never insure them because of a pre-
existing condition, that is not a con-
science thing because they are a cor-
poration, but when it comes to wom-
en’s health, it is.
One woman from Butler County in
Southwest Ohio wrote, and she said:
I’d like to know why insurance companies
are allowed to pick and choose the drugs
they will and will not cover. Since when did
they become doctors?
This is just the latest in a long line
of rules that hurt women.
They have rolled back title X protec-
tions, instituting a new gag rule that
would ban many clinics from talking
about birth control and family plan-
ning options with their patients, lim-
iting their patients’ access to accurate
medical information.
I just don’t understand. Some of
these people don’t like abortion. I un-
derstand that. They want to take away
women’s healthcare decisions, but they
will not help women get contracep-
tives, and they will not explain the op-
tions women have when they come in
and want to talk to the doctor about
those kinds of things. I just don’t get
that.
I get letters from women in Ohio who
also don’t get that, who are scared
about what these changes mean.
One woman from Mahoning County
wrote to me:
I am a 24 year old woman living with
PCOS, a hormonal disorder. Complications of
PCOS include Type 2 Diabetes, high risks of
miscarriage and infertility, and even cancer.
It is not curable, but it can be treated with
birth control.
This domestic gag order will put millions
of women at risk across this country.
Let me read again what she said:
I am a 24 year old woman living with
PCOS, a hormonal disorder. Complications
include Type 2 Diabetes, high risk of mis-
carriage and infertility, even cancer.
It is not curable, but can be treated with
birth control.
This domestic gag order will put millions
of women at risk across the country.
Who said these people can practice
medicine when they are without a li-
cense and do these kinds of things?
I hope my colleagues will think
about these women. I hope my col-
leagues, especially my male colleagues,
will spend a little more time trying to
help women get the healthcare they
need instead of trying to meddle in de-
cisions that always, always, always
should be between a woman and her
doctor.
I yield the floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.037 S14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2843
May 14, 2019
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:20 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, May 15,
2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS
THEODORE ROKITA, OF INDIANA, TO BE A DIRECTOR OF
THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE REMAIN-
DER OF THE TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 3, 2021, VICE
DEREK TAI–CHING KAN.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOHN LESLIE CARWILE, OF MARYLAND, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF
MINISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA.
UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION
MONICA DAVID MORRIS, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A COMMIS-
SIONER OF THE UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION
FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS, VICE J. PATRICIA WILSON
SMOOT, TERM EXPIRED.
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate May 14, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
MICHAEL J. TRUNCALE, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G14MY6.038 S14MYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E583
May 14, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF COUNCILWOMAN ELSIE
FRANKLIN
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
deep sadness and great respect that I take
this time to remember one of Northwest Indi-
ana’s most passionate and dedicated citizens,
Lake County Councilwoman Elsie Franklin.
Councilwoman Franklin passed away on Mon-
day, May 6, 2019, at the age of 81. Her un-
wavering commitment to her constituents and
her community is worthy of the highest praise,
and she will be greatly missed by her family,
friends, co-workers, and the many grateful
residents whose lives she touched.
Elsie was born in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, and
moved to Gary, Indiana, at a young age. She
attended Gary Roosevelt High School and
built her life in the city of Gary. Ms. Franklin
was a member of Clark Road Missionary Bap-
tist Church and was very active in her faith
throughout her lifetime. For Elsie, being able
to improve her community and assist those in
need was her life’s purpose. She is remem-
bered by family and friends as a role model
who stood up for those who did not have a
voice.
Throughout her lifetime of public service,
Elsie Franklin served the people of Gary and
Lake County in numerous capacities. She was
the director of Gary’s General Services under
Mayor Thomas Barnes while also holding po-
sitions on various boards, charities, and orga-
nizations throughout the years. In 2002, she
was elected to serve on the Lake County
Council, representing the 2nd district. This vic-
tory marked the first time an African-American
woman would serve on the Lake County
Council. She was passionate about the people
of her district and the issues they faced. Many
remember her actively working to secure fund-
ing for services within the Lake County Juve-
nile Court system. The challenges facing the
youth in the city of Gary and throughout North-
west Indiana were a priority for her, and Coun-
cilwoman Franklin was a true hero for her
hard work and dedication to the children of our
communities. Elsie served on the Lake County
Council for the past seventeen years, and she
was an outstanding activist for the people of
her district and the city of Gary.
Councilwoman Franklin was also a strong
leader for the Democratic Party in Northwest
Indiana for many years. Throughout her re-
markable career, spanning over 50 years, she
served her party in numerous capacities. Elsie
served as vice chairwoman of the Lake Coun-
ty Democratic Central Committee, and she
was the first African-American woman to chair
the Gary Democratic Precinct Organization.
Elsie Franklin is survived by her beloved
children: Cherylynn, Michael, Kimberly, Kenya,
Keesha, Theodore, and Dara. She also leaves
to cherish her memory many dear friends and
family members, as well as a saddened but
grateful community.
Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask that you
and my other distinguished colleagues join me
in paying tribute to a true public servant, Ms.
Elsie Franklin. For her outstanding contribu-
tions to the city of Gary and to the community
of Northwest Indiana, she is to be com-
mended. Elsie Franklin’s legacy will be forever
remembered and will continue to inspire gen-
erations to come.
f
REMEMBERING LAURENCE M.
BLOCH
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday May 14, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to remember an important mentor, advisor and
my quasi-brother/father, Laurence M. Bloch,
whom the world knew as ‘‘Larry.’’ Larry, a
Memphis native and longtime real estate in-
vestor and contributor to humanitarian causes,
passed away on February 23 in Santa Monica,
California, at the age of 87.
A font of sage advice, Larry was constantly
there for me and for many others who loved
him for the caring individual he was. After
graduating from Christian Brothers High
School in 1949, Larry went to the University of
Michigan, and led a group of Wolverines fans
traveling by train with the team to the 1951
Rose Bowl where Michigan beat the California
Golden Bears 14 to 6. Larry graduated with a
degree in economics in 1953 then served two
years in the U.S. Army before returning to
Memphis where he was involved in the mil-
linery business before settling into the real es-
tate investment business.
He remained an avid Michigan fan his whole
life and used to tape every game. Known for
his disheveled salt-and-pepper hair and socks-
less and tie-less style, and for riding his bicy-
cle like Albert Einstein, he also drove around
town in a Lincoln Continental with coach
doors. He celebrated healthy eating habits as
a prophet of whole grains and fiber. An inves-
tor with a keen eye for good deals in Mem-
phis’ downtown, he had the good sense and
good fortune to own the property kitty-corner
from The Peabody on Union Avenue that was
torn down to create AutoZone Park.
A patron of the arts, he also supported the
Memphis Crisis Center, Meals on Wheels and
the Church Health Center among his chari-
table causes. As a cat lover, another of his
charitable causes was The House of Mews,
where he was for a while the top cat. A
charming story teller, he provided useful ad-
vice and helped many people solve their prob-
lems. Larry liked: long walks, telling stories,
giving advice, peanuts, cashmere sweaters,
everything else cashmere, trains, maize and
blue signs, a studied careless appearance,
salads and, more than anything, Cheryl and
his grandsons. Larry didn’t like: being photo-
graphed, zoos, recognition, Ohio State or work
hours extending two hours either side of
lunch.
I was fortunate to have had him as a good
friend and will miss him greatly. Much of what
I am and have been is because of Larry
Bloch. I thank Larry. I want to extend my con-
dolences to his daughter Cheryl, to his
grandsons Nick and Alex, to his sister Joyce
whom he loved, and her family, and to his
multitude of adoring friends. Larry Bloch led
an exemplary life.
f
HONORING BEATRICE ‘‘BEBE’’
COKER
HON. LISA BLUNT ROCHESTER
OF DELAWARE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today, on behalf of my colleagues
Senator TOM CARPER and Senator CHRIS
COONS of Delaware, to honor and congratulate
Beatrice ‘‘Bebe’’ Coker, a mother, sister, artist,
advocate, mentor, leader, and recipient of the
2019 John H. Taylor Jr. Education Leadership
Award.
Bebe, as she is affectionately called, is a
lifelong advocate for quality public education,
the arts, and diversity and inclusion. She was
honored by the Delaware State Chamber of
Commerce affiliate, The Partnership, Inc., at
Superstars in Education Reception and
Awards Ceremony on May 13, 2019, for her
unrelenting dedication and leadership in ad-
vancing education for all children and making
our community a better place to live and work.
Ms. Coker is a revered community mobilizer
and literacy advocate, as well as a champion
of social justice in Delaware. Among her many
contributions to our state, Ms. Bebe was ap-
pointed by former Gov. Pierre S. du Pont to
join the Citizens Alliance for Public Education
to ensure the peaceful desegregation of Dela-
ware schools. She has volunteered for count-
less organizations, including The Christiana
Cultural Art Center, the NAACP Young Adults
Group and the Metropolitan Wilmington Urban
League. She chaired the State Civil Rights
Commission and has aided numerous organi-
zations focused on literacy.
Bebe holds a bachelor’s degree from Mor-
gan State University and a Doctor of Human-
ities from Delaware State University. She is a
playwright, poet, and lyricist. She is, quite sim-
ply, a renaissance woman.
Never one to shy away from fighting for
what she believed in, her work throughout
Delaware has had a tremendous impact on us
all. As a writer, or through her work in the
community, she has always been an honest
story teller—the stories of our past, our
present, and those that inform the work we do
to create a better future.
A mentor to many young people, Ms.
Coker’s greatest source of pride and support
is embodied in her three ‘‘daughter/best
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14MY8.003 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E584 May 14, 2019
friends’’, retired Capt. Laurie Coker, U.S. Navy
Public Health Services, CDC, Atlanta, GA; Dr.
Joan Coker, Head and Neck Surgeon, Wil-
mington, DE; and Julie Coker Graham, Presi-
dent & CEO, Philadelphia Convention & Visi-
tors Bureau. While each has accomplished
much in the ‘‘career-world’’, Ms. Coker’s pride
stems from each embracing a love of service
to others as their privilege and responsibility.
A community activist in Delaware for over
50 years, Bebe is an inspiration to me. I am
proud to stand here today with my fellow Dela-
wareans honoring an extraordinary woman
with an extraordinary heart, who is steadfast
and unmovable in our community and who
consistently sacrifices her time and talent to
improve the lives of others. Ms. Coker’s an-
chor is her strong faith in God and lifelong
words she was taught to live by, ‘‘Don’t let
your talents take you, where your character
can’t keep you. It is all about the ‘‘integrity of
one—you’’.
f
SAVANNA’S ACT
HON. SUZANNE BONAMICI
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, Native
women in the U.S. face tragically high rates of
violence, sexual assault, and murder. Accord-
ing to the CDC, murder is the third leading
cause of death among Native women, with
rates of violence ten times that of the national
average on reservations.
I rise today in support of Savanna’s Act,
which will recognize Native women victims
and make sure that their invisibility by law en-
forcement ends. I understand the devastating
effects of colonization and the disproportionate
harm and risk for Native women. We must
work together to pass Savanna’s Act, which
will substantially strengthen federal and tribal
investigations into the disappearance of Indig-
enous women, and increase the likelihood of
prosecuting these violent crimes.
Savanna’s Act will also create and improve
procedures, communication, and cooperation
among federal, state, tribal, and local agencies
that may share jurisdiction over these crimes.
These provisions will also improve recording
and sharing of data so these women are no
longer invisible to law enforcement.
I thank Rep. TORRES for taking the lead on
this important piece of legislation. I encourage
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to co-
sponsor this life-saving legislation, and I urge
House leaders to move swiftly to bring it to the
floor for a vote.
f
CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF CHIEF DAVID FRENZEL
WITH THE ORANGE FIRE DE-
PARTMENT
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate a great man and thank him for
fifty years of service to the City of Orange’s
Fire Department, Chief David Frenzel. Chief
Frenzel was born on June 25, 1947 to E.P.
and Sophia Frenzel in Orange, Texas. He and
his brother, Dolan, were raised there and at-
tended public school.
Chief Frenzel began his college career at
Lamar Tech anticipating a career in the med-
ical field. In the spring of 1969 Fire Chief
Vertis Sands called and offered him a job with
the fire department on a Thursday. He with-
drew from classes at Lamar on Friday and
went to work at the fire department on Satur-
day, April 19, 1969. The rest, as they say, is
history. Chief Frenzel did go on to earn his de-
gree from Lamar University in Fire Protection
Technology in 1978 and completed the Execu-
tive Officer program through the National Fire
Academy in 2000.
Through the years, Chief Frenzel advanced
through the ranks at the fire department and
was named Fire Chief in 1997. Today he con-
tinues to serve in that capacity, claiming that
he still has a few things he would like to ac-
complish within the department before retire-
ment.
In addition to his firefighter duties, Chief
Frenzel has volunteered in many capacities
throughout the community, including service
on St. Mary’s Catholic Church Pastoral Coun-
cil; serving on the boards of the Sabine
Neches Chief Association and Lamar Institute
of Technology; and serving as Scout Master
for Troop 1 for twenty-five years with 75 young
men earning the rank of Eagle Scout under
his leadership.
Chief Frenzel and his wife Hildy have been
married for 41 years and have two sons,
David and Adam, both of whom were valedic-
torians at West Orange Stark High School and
went on to graduate from Texas A & M Uni-
versity. They are also the proud grandparents
of five grandchildren Charlie, Sam, Andy, Abi-
gail, and Alden.
Chief Frenzel is known for his humble ways,
quick wit, and knowledge of Orange history.
His most admirable quality is his love of God,
his family, and for the Orange Fire Depart-
ment.
Madam Speaker, I rise to congratulate Chief
Frenzel on his half century of dedicated serv-
ice to the Orange Fire Department and in
thanks of a heroism few share, but all are
grateful for.
f
RECOGNIZING BOYS & GIRLS CLUB
OF COLLIN COUNTY ON THEIR
50TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, in October
1968, the ‘‘Boys Club of McKinney’’ under the
leadership of Mr. Henry L. Shoap, was created
to assist young men in developing the skills,
attitudes, and aptitudes to make successful
decisions in life. In April 1969, after receiving
incorporation from the national organization,
the Club would officially open its doors on the
historic McKinney Square.
A decade later, girls would be admitted to
the organization. However, it would take an-
other seven years for the Club to officially
change its name to the Boys & Girls Clubs of
McKinney. In time, the Club came to be a
popular destination for kids from around Collin
County to assemble in a safe and fun learning
environment.
In 1988, in order to expand their area of
service, the Club would officially change its
name one final time to Boys & Girls Club of
Collin County. Similar to its inception fifty
years ago, the mission remains largely the
same: To enable all young people, especially
those most in need, to reach their full potential
as productive, caring, and responsible individ-
uals.
The Boys & Girls Club of Collin County pro-
vides a valuable service—and sometimes the
only option—to those children needing a place
to go after school. Today, over 10,000 Collin
County children and teens are regularly
served by locations in McKinney, Plano, and
Frisco. Kids who attend the Club are afforded
a variety of programs and activities that assist
in allowing them to meet key areas of devel-
opment while gaining independence and learn-
ing tools to become productive members of
their community.
For this reason, I am proud to congratulate
Boys & Girls Club of Collin County on their
50th anniversary of service to a grateful com-
munity. Under the leadership of so many self-
less individuals, including current CEO E. Mi-
chael Simpson, your dedicated team of lead-
ers has worked to ensure that those who
would most benefit from the services provided
by your organization are allowed to thrive in a
safe and nurturing environment.
Madam Speaker, today I urge my col-
leagues to join me in recognizing this tremen-
dous organization for improving the lives of
countless children over the past five decades
while growing our next generation of commu-
nity leaders.
f
NORTHWEST INDIANA BUSINESS
AND INDUSTRY HALL OF FAME
CLASS OF 2019
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect and admiration that I rise to
commend several exceptional leaders from In-
diana who will be honored as the Northwest
Indiana Business and Industry Hall of Fame
Class of 2019. While there are many deserv-
ing nominees, this year’s inductees include
Kenneth J. Allen, Benito Gamba, Ron
McColly, and David Van Eekeren. In addition,
U.S. Steel will be presented with the Enter-
prise of the Year Award. For their many con-
tributions to the community of Northwest Indi-
ana and beyond, these honorees will be rec-
ognized at the 12th Annual Induction Cere-
mony on Tuesday, May 28, 2019, at Avalon
Manor in Merrillville, Indiana. The Honorable
Eric Holcomb, Governor of the State of Indi-
ana, and United States Senator TODD YOUNG
will serve as keynote speakers for this special
event.
Kenneth J. Allen graduated from Gary Lew
Wallace High School and went on to study at
Valparaiso University and the Indiana Univer-
sity School of Law. Before becoming an attor-
ney, Mr. Allen worked in construction and then
for a railroad company at a steel mill. After
graduating law school, Ken opened his law
firm in Valparaiso, focusing on personal injury
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14MY8.002 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E585
May 14, 2019
and wrongful death litigation. Today, his busi-
ness consists of six locations, three in Indiana
and three in Illinois. The Kenneth Allen Law
Group tirelessly seeks out cases that can
bring about true change in society. Mr. Allen
also gives much of his time and support to
various charitable endeavors, including the
Lake Area United Way and the Boys and Girls
Clubs of Northwest Indiana.
Benito Gamba is the founder and owner of
Gamba Ristorante, located in Merrillville, Indi-
ana. Benito was born in Altomonte, Italy, and
moved to the United States in 1977. After
working in several established restaurants, Mr.
Gamba opened his own place, Café Venezia,
in 1988. In 2001, he then opened the Venezia
Bar and Grill, which was followed by the open-
ing of his current establishment, Gamba
Ristorante, in 2006. At this time in his life, Be-
nito is focused on providing good jobs and
continuing to share his love of food with the
people of Northwest Indiana and beyond.
Ron McColly, a Gary native, is the owner of
McColly Real Estate, the largest residential
real estate company in Northwest Indiana.
Throughout the years, Mr. McColly continued
to build his business, and he has been im-
mensely successful due to his outstanding
leadership skills and determination. Today,
McColly Real Estate consists of twenty-three
real estate offices throughout the region. The
McColly Company includes: Community Title,
McColly Bennett Commercial, McColly Insur-
ance, McColly Auctions, and the McColly
School of Real Estate. Ron has continuously
given back to the community through chari-
table support for numerous organizations, in-
cluding the Methodist Hospitals Foundation
and the Crown Point YMCA, among many oth-
ers.
David Van Eekeren is the President and
Chief Executive Officer of Land O’Frost, a
processed deli meat company that is
headquartered in Munster, Indiana. David is
the third generation of his family to run the
business. Land O’Frost is currently the third
largest producer of processed deli meats in
the United States and has plants in Illinois,
Kentucky, and Arkansas. Under Mr. Van
Eekeren’s leadership the company continues
to grow and is focused on adding new and in-
novative products. David gives back to his
community in many ways, especially through
his support for the Juvenile Diabetes Founda-
tion and his service as a trustee for the Illinois
Institute of Technology.
The recipient of the Enterprise of the Year
Award is U.S. Steel for recently pledging two
billion dollars to a company-wide asset revital-
ization program. A large part of the revitaliza-
tion program is allocated for Gary Works,
which is the largest integrated steel mill in
North America and stretches for seven miles
along the Lake Michigan shoreline. Gary
Works currently employs more than 3,800
people, providing good jobs for hard-working
families throughout the region. The revitaliza-
tion program will ensure that the company is
able to continue building the economy in Gary
and Northwest Indiana for many years to
come.
Madam Speaker, I ask you and my other
distinguished colleagues to join me in com-
mending these dedicated leaders and organi-
zations upon their induction into the Northwest
Indiana Business and Industry Hall of Fame.
They are truly deserving of this honor, and for
their exceptional leadership and commitment
to the region and beyond, each of them is
worthy of the highest praise.
f
GUN VIOLENCE AWARENESS DAY
HON. SUSIE LEE
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor and commemoration of the
many victims and survivors of gun violence
and to commemorate National Gun Violence
Awareness Day in Nevada’s Third Congres-
sional District.
On average, 100 Americans are killed by
gun violence every day and nearly 13,000 gun
homicides occur each year. Americans are 25
times more likely to be killed with guns than
people in other high-income countries.
Support for the Second Amendment rights
of law-abiding citizens goes hand-in-hand with
keeping guns away from people with dan-
gerous histories, and protecting the public’s
safety in the communities they serve.
Representatives and law enforcement offi-
cers know their communities best, are the
most familiar with local criminal activity and
how to address it, and are best positioned to
understand how to keep their citizens safe.
In January 2013, Hadiya Pendleton, a teen-
ager who marched in President Obama’s sec-
ond inaugural parade and was tragically shot
and killed just weeks later, should be now
celebrating her 22nd birthday. To honor
Hadiya—and the 100 Americans whose lives
are cut short and the countless survivors who
are injured by shootings every day—a national
coalition of organizations has designated June
7, 2019, the first Friday in June, as the 5th
National Gun Violence Awareness Day.
The idea was inspired by a group of
Hadiya’s friends, who asked their classmates
to commemorate her life by wearing orange;
they chose this orange for two reasons: hunt-
ers wear orange to announce themselves to
other hunters when out in the woods and or-
ange symbolizes the value of human life.
Anyone can join this campaign by pledging
to Wear Orange on June 7th, the first Friday
in June in 2019, to help raise awareness
about gun violence and honor the lives of gun
violence victims and survivors.
We renew our commitment to reduce gun
violence and pledge to do all we can to keep
firearms out of the wrong hands, and encour-
age responsible gun ownership to help keep
our children safe.
I encourage all citizens to support their local
communities’ efforts to prevent the tragic ef-
fects of gun violence and to honor and value
human lives.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MICHAEL WALTZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. WALTZ. Madam Speaker, I unintention-
ally missed an amendment vote due to con-
versation with other members. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 191.
HONORING THE LIFE OF
MARGARITA LÓPEZ PRENTICE
HON. ADAM SMITH
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker,
I rise to honor the life and accomplishments of
Washington State Senator Margarita López
Prentice, who will be remembered for her
dedication to public service.
I had the pleasure of serving with Ms. López
Prentice in the Washington State Legislature,
where she was the first Latina elected as a
Washington State Senator. After first being
elected in 1988, she served as a public official
in the Washington State House of Representa-
tives for four years, and then in the Wash-
ington Senate, for 27 years. Before her retire-
ment in 2013, Ms. López Prentice served as
the Senate Pro Tempore, and as Chairwoman
of various committees. She was known for her
caring manner, her mentorship, and her ability
to forge bipartisan partnerships. Ms. López
Prentice’s many contributions to the State
Legislature earned her the distinction of Legis-
lator of the Year in 2006 from several organi-
zations, including the Washington Health Care
Association and the Washington State Labor
Council.
Ms. López Prentice was dedicated to
bettering the lives of others. Her career in
nursing and her passion for women’s health,
LGBTQ rights, veterans’ benefits, and migrant
workers’ rights, demonstrate her commitment
to helping others. During her 30-year career
as a nurse and nurse administrator, Ms. López
Prentice was active in the Washington State
Nurses Association, where she ultimately be-
came vice president of the association. Ms.
López Prentice spent countless hours giving
back to the Renton community through her
service for the Renton Historical Society and
the Renton Area Youth Services, as well as
on the Renton School Board.
Madam Speaker, it is with great sadness
that I offer my condolences to the family and
friends of Senator Margarita López Prentice. I
am confident that her love of public service
will continue to inspire Washington State Leg-
islators for years to come.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, due to flood-
ing and severe weather in my district this
week, I was unable to vote on May 10 and the
prior day. Had I been present, I would have
voted yea on rollcall No. 200.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND HEROIC
ACTIONS OF RILEY HOWELL
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize the life and actions of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14MY8.004 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E586 May 14, 2019
Riley Howell, a true hero who sacrificed him-
self to save countless lives on May 1st at
UNC Charlotte.
Riley was a 21-year-old student who had
just transferred to UNC Charlotte last fall after
studying at Asheville-Buncombe Technical
Community College. When a former student
began shooting in his classroom, Riley was
the first to ignore the danger and charge to-
wards the gunman. Despite being shot three
times, he still tackled the shooter with enough
force to knock him off his feet. Riley’s actions
prevented the shooter from reloading and al-
lowed campus police to intervene before any
more damage could be done. However, Ril-
ey’s courageous actions came at a dire cost—
he passed away from his wounds.
Since Riley’s passing, I have read story
after story that speak to Riley’s ingenuity, kind
heart, love of Star Wars, and upstanding char-
acter. When folks heard about his heroic ac-
tions, they said it sounded exactly like what
Riley would do to help someone in need or
protect those who couldn’t protect themselves.
I’m as much in awe of Riley’s actions as I am
devastated that such carnage could happen at
a place that made such a lasting impact on
my life.
As a proud UNC Charlotte alumnus, my
thoughts and prayers are with Riley’s parents,
Thomas Howell and Natalie Henry-Howell, his
eight younger siblings, and all who loved him.
As a father, I cannot imagine the depth of their
grief and I offer my deepest condolences.
I know I speak for the entire community
when I say, Riley will always be remembered
for his heroic and selfless actions and I will do
everything in my power to honor his memory
and sacrifice.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
commemorating the life of Riley Howell and
his heroic actions.
f
HONORING THE DEPARTMENT OF
NEW YORK OF THE SONS OF
UNION VETERANS OF THE CIVIL
WAR ON THEIR 136TH ANNUAL
NEW YORK DEPARTMENT EN-
CAMPMENT
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor The Department of New York
of the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War
as they gather for their 136th annual encamp-
ment.
The Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil
War is a fraternal organization founded nation-
ally in 1881. Their mission is to preserve the
history and legacy of those who fought and
worked and died to preserve the Union. Its
members are all descendants of soldiers, sail-
ors, marines and revenue cutter service mem-
bers who served honorably during the war.
The New York Department was founded two
years after the national organization in 1883.
Since that time, they have met annually in an
encampment to conduct business, plan future
volunteer activities and elect leaders. This his-
toric organization has been dedicated to pre-
serving the memory and legacy of those who
bravely served for generations. They have vol-
unteered their time at historical cemeteries en-
suring that the monuments and headstones of
civil war veterans do not fall into disrepair and
are maintained for future generations to see
and reflect on. They also maintain an impres-
sive collection of U.S. flags used by the mili-
tary as far back as the War of 1812.
The Sons of the Union Veterans of the Civil
War do us all a great service by preserving
the memory and physical reminders of our his-
tory for future generations. On behalf of New
York’s 21st Congressional District, I want to
thank them for 136 years of dedicated public
service.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE BANNING
SMOKING ON AMTRAK ACT OF 2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Banning Smoking on Amtrak Act
of 2019. My bill would simply codify Amtrak’s
internal policy prohibiting smoking, including of
electronic cigarettes, on its trains. This bill is
modeled on a bill I got enacted as part of the
FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–
254) that clarified that the smoking ban on air-
planes includes electronic cigarettes.
Although Amtrak implemented its own inter-
nal policy banning smoking on its trains in
1993, that policy could always be repealed,
though Amtrak has not indicated it would do
so. My bill would make the ban a matter of
federal law and put Congress on the record in
support of protecting people from secondhand
smoke.
Smoking bans have been a critical tool in
protecting people from the effects of second-
hand smoke, known to increase the risk for
serious cardiovascular and respiratory dis-
eases like coronary heart disease, lung cancer
and emphysema, among others. The World
Health Organization (WHO) considers the to-
bacco epidemic to be one of the biggest public
health threats in the world, killing more than
seven million people a year. While more than
six million of those deaths are the result of di-
rect tobacco use, around 890,000 non-smok-
ers exposed to secondhand smoke are also
killed every year.
Under my bill, smoking would be banned on
Amtrak trains in the same manner as airline
travel. According to the WHO, there is no safe
level of exposure to secondhand tobacco
smoke. Even short-term exposure can poten-
tially increase the risk of heart attacks.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
legislation.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE RENEW-
ABLE ENERGY TRANSFER-
ABILITY ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, the
climate crisis we face is one of the most im-
portant challenges of our time. There has
been a lot of alarming news—the last four
years were the hottest years on record, and
we are seeing more and more extreme weath-
er events devastate our communities. How-
ever, one of the success stories that we’ve
seen in our efforts to combat climate change
is the growth in renewable energy, particularly
among wind and solar energy.
Today Representative DARIN LAHOOD and I
are introducing the Renewable Energy Trans-
ferability Act to increase the deployment of re-
newable energy resources by making them
transferable. This bipartisan legislation allows
any entity involved in a renewable energy
project to make a transfer after the due date
of return (including extensions) of the Produc-
tion Tax Credit and the Investment Tax Credit
on a limited basis.
These two tax credits are some of the most
successful renewable energy policies on the
books, yet they have been hampered by re-
quiring their beneficiaries to enter into complex
tax arrangements. Transferability will allow
these credits to reach a wider base of inves-
tors, expanding the deployment of renewable
energy and lowering carbon emissions for
consumers.
At a time of unprecedented climatic changes
and public calls for action, Congress must act.
While this legislation can only play part of a
role in helping address the climate crisis, it
takes an important step in assisting a key in-
dustry. I look forward to working with my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to pass the
Renewable Energy Transferability Act into law.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MR. DOUG
JEFFE
HON. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise to celebrate the life of Mr. Doug
Jeffe. Born and raised in Los Angeles, Doug
was both a prominent figure in California poli-
tics and an invaluable member of our commu-
nity. It was an honor for me to have known
Mr. Jeffe, and I am incredibly sad he is no
longer with us.
For over two decades, Doug was the aide
and protégé of California State Assembly
Speaker Jesse M. Unruh. He later put this ex-
perience to work as a campaign manager, pol-
icy advocate, and writer. In 1995, Doug found-
ed Issues Management Network, a firm that
specializes in message engineering and ballot
measure campaigns. Doug used his policy ex-
perience and campaign skills to promote
measures that would help others: for example,
in 2002, Doug led a successful ballot measure
campaign that secured funds to save and sup-
port trauma centers in Los Angeles County.
No matter what he was working on, Doug’s
colleagues always noted his unflagging good
humor and genial nature, an attitude that gar-
nered him many friends over the years.
In addition to his work as a political profes-
sional, Doug was also the president of the
Board of Directors of L.A. Theatre Works and
served on the board of the Venice Family Clin-
ic, two important community institutions in our
region. He also contributed to the political blog
Fox & Hounds Daily and lectured on political
communications at the University of Southern
California and the University of California, Los
Angeles.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.005 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E587
May 14, 2019
Doug is survived by his beloved wife, Sherry
Bebitch Jeffe, with whom he spent over 50
years traveling the world. Doug is also missed
by his rescue pit bull, Kennedy, and his innu-
merable friends and colleagues. He will for-
ever be remembered for his selflessness and
work to make a positive meaningful impact on
his community.
f
HONORING LEIGHA PETERSON
HON. TOM RICE
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Leigha Peterson, the
first student to earn a doctoral degree from
Coastal Carolina University in Myrtle Beach,
South Carolina. She graduated this weekend
with a Doctor of Philosophy in Marine Science.
This is just Leigha’s most recent landmark
accomplishment during her impressive tenure
at Coastal Carolina University. She is the first
to earn all three levels of undergraduate and
postgraduate education from Coastal Carolina.
While earning her Ph.D., she was Coastal
Carolina’s first doctoral student representative
and helped other students successfully inter-
act with their professors. In addition to co-
authoring 25 research papers, she also partici-
pated in research trips to Antarctica, Brazil,
the Gulf of Mexico, Jamaica, and Canada to
further her studies.
Leigha’s graduation is not only a huge per-
sonal achievement, but a major success for
Coastal Carolina University. I know Leigha will
be the first of many innovators and entre-
preneurs that earn prestigious degrees from
Coastal Carolina University before making
their mark on the world. We are all very proud
of Leigha, and wish her success in her future
endeavors.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JACQUIE
JONES-WALSH
HON. ADAM SMITH
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker,
I rise to honor the life and legacy of Jacquie
Jones-Walsh, whose work combating injustice
in the workplace has improved the lives of an
unmeasurable amount of people in Wash-
ington State.
Ms. Jones-Walsh tirelessly worked with, and
in many cases led, a number of organizations
with the singular purpose of supporting the
rights of all workers. Ms. Jones-Walsh fought
to eliminate the barriers that people of color
and women so often face. She served tire-
lessly as a leader representing several organi-
zations. Ms. Jones-Walsh was the second
Vice President of the Seattle King County
Chapter of the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People (NAACP), State
President for the Coalition of Labor Union
Women (CLUW), Vice President of the Wash-
ington State Labor Council, President of the
Seattle Blacks in Government (BIG) Chapter,
a founding member of the Seattle MLK Jr. Or-
ganizing Coalition, and served several terms
as President of the Washington Federation of
State Employees (WFSE) Local 843, to name
a few.
A long-time advocate for expanding and
protecting affirmative action, Ms. Jones-Walsh
played an active part in a recent campaign to
approve Initiative 1000. This Washington state
initiative lifts a ban on affirmative action in
education, employment and contracting and
extends it to include women, veterans, people
with disabilities, and all people of color. Her
advocacy on this and countless other projects
will be missed.
I have personally worked with Ms. Jones-
Walsh several times. Each time I’ve had the
pleasure of meeting with her, she exhibited
the passion, diligence and intelligence that her
groundbreaking causes deserved. It was these
qualities and her devotion to the community
that made her such a staple in Washington
State.
Madam Speaker, it is with great honor that
I recognize the life of Jacquie Jones-Walsh,
whose leadership in the labor community has
been an inspiration for many people. Her dedi-
cation and commitment to fighting for equality
will live on through her legacy, and she will be
greatly missed.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I missed
two roll call votes. Had I been present I would
have voted:
Yes on the Huffman of California Part C
Amendment No. 6 on H.R. 2157, Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, 2019 (Roll Call No.
199). This amendment prohibits funds in the
bill from being used to enforce regulations re-
quiring within two years construction of agency
relief projects funded by the Federal Highway
Administration.
Yes on the Sablan of Northern Mariana Is-
lands Part C Amendment No. 3 on H.R. 2157,
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019 (Roll
Call No. 198). This amendment increases
funding for waste water treatment plants im-
pacted by Typhoon Yutu by $8,800,000 for re-
pair and resiliency.
f
HONORING THOMAS J. SCHWARZ
HON. NITA M. LOWEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor Thomas J. Schwarz, President of State
University of New York, Purchase College, as
the College honors him this month for his 17
years of distinguished leadership on the occa-
sion of his retirement.
Since Mr. Schwarz was appointed as Pur-
chase College’s fifth President in 2003, the
college has seen substantially improved reten-
tion and graduation rates. He prioritized social
responsibility throughout his presidency. In
2007, he signed the ‘‘American College and
University Presidents’ Climate Commitment,’’
expressing the sense that Purchase College
would chart a course toward climate neutrality.
In 2015, Purchase College constructed its first
LEED Gold-certified campus building and con-
tinues to renovate existing buildings with more
energy-efficient technology. Mr. Schwarz
oversaw the development of the Broadview
Senior Living Center, a senior living commu-
nity on the Purchase College Campus that will
promote lifelong learning.
Throughout his career, he was deeply com-
mitted to public service. He served as mayor
of the Village of Ocean Beach, New York;
Special Counsel to the New York State Com-
mission on Government Integrity; Chief Judge
to the Commission to Promote Public Con-
fidence in Judicial Integrity, and Counsel to
the Governor’s Judicial Screening Program.
The Legal Aid Society recognized him with its
Pro Bono Award in 1998.
Madam Speaker, I urge my fellow Members
of Congress to join me in expressing thanks to
Mr. Schwarz for his many years of outstanding
public service and student advocacy.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, on Roll
Call Vote Nos. 197, 198, 199, 200, 201 and
202, I am not recorded because I was not
present in the House.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
NAY on Roll Call No. 197; NAY on Roll Call
No. 198; NAY on Roll Call No. 199; YEA on
Roll Call No. 200; YEA on Roll Call No. 201;
and NAY on Roll Call No. 202.
f
IN HONOR OF THE WYOMING
STATE SOCIETY DAUGHTERS OF
THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION AN-
NUAL CONFERENCE
HON. LIZ CHENEY
OF WYOMING
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Wyoming State Society of the
Daughters of the American Revolution, which
will hold its annual conference May 16–19, in
Lander, Wyoming.
The Daughters of the American Revolution
has a long tradition of promoting historic pres-
ervation, education, and patriotism across the
country and state of Wyoming. This year at
their conference, members from around the
state will come together to celebrate their con-
tributions to Wyoming history and society, and
hear from a host of speakers, including other
D.A.R. members from across the country.
I would also like to thank the members of
the Daughters of the American Revolution for
all they do to preserve the history of our great
state and country and to promote the impor-
tance of education and patriotism of our great
nation.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to acknowl-
edge the many contributions the women of the
Daughters of the American Revolution have
made throughout history, and continue to
make today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.009 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E588 May 14, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TOM EMMER
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, on May 9th
and 10th, I attended my son’s graduation from
Naval Academy Preparatory School and was
therefore unable to cast my vote on several
pieces of legislation. If present, I would have
voted NAY on ordering the previous question
to H. Res. 357 (Roll Call No. 189) and NAY
on agreeing to H. Res. 357 (Roll Call No.
190).
I would have also voted on amendments to
H.R. 986, the Protecting Americans with Pre-
existing Conditions Act, in the following way:
YEA on the Brown Amendment (Roll Call No.
191); YEA on the Holding Amendment (Roll
Call No. 192); NAY on the Malinowski Amend-
ment (Roll Call No. 193); and NAY on the Wild
Amendment (Roll Call No. 194). I would have
voted YEA to recommit H.R. 986 (Roll Call
No. 195) and voted NAY on passage (Roll
Call No. 196). Despite its title, H.R. 986 does
nothing to protect preexisting conditions. In-
stead, I would have supported my colleague
Representative GREG WALDEN’s bill, H.R. 692,
the Pre-existing Conditions Protection Act, if it
were brought before the House for consider-
ation.
Furthermore, I would have voted on amend-
ments to H.R. 2157, the Supplemental Appro-
priations Act of 2019, in the following way:
NAY on the Perlmutter amendment (Roll Call
No. 197); NAY on the Sablan amendment
(Roll Call No. 198); NAY on the Huffman
amendment (Roll Call No. 199); and YEA on
the Fletcher amendment (Roll Call No. 200). I
would have voted YEA to recommit H.R. 2157
(Roll Call No. 201) and NAY on passage of
H.R. 2157 (Roll Call No. 202). While I support
targeted funding to help communities recover
from flooding, especially in Minnesota, this bill
carelessly adds to our growing national debt.
Future generations will be forced to confront
the over $22 trillion in debt unless Washington
can find a way to reform the appropriations
process to address unchecked federal spend-
ing.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ELLIS
‘‘REED’’ PARLIER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize the life of Ellis ‘‘Reed’’
Parlier, a young man from North Carolina’s
Eighth Congressional District whose life was
taken much too soon on May 1st of this year.
Reed was full of passion, wit and intel-
ligence. A top student and avid gamer, Reed
planned to turn his love of video games into
a Computer Science degree and a career as
a game developer. He had the reputation of
being gifted academically with a witty sense of
humor, and had his whole life ahead of him as
he finished his freshman year at UNC Char-
lotte.
It absolutely breaks my heart that Reed’s
life was taken from us during a tragic, sense-
less shooting on UNC Charlotte’s campus. My
years at UNC Charlotte made an indelible im-
pact on who I am today, and I was shaken to
my core when I learned of Reed’s death last
week. My thoughts and prayers are with
Reed’s family during this time of sorrow. As a
father, I cannot imagine the depth of your
grief.
I know I speak for the entire 49er commu-
nity when I say we all share your pain and
mourning—no one deserves to lose a child,
especially on a campus like UNC Charlotte
where so many terrific, transformative experi-
ences take place for tens of thousands of stu-
dents each year.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
commemorating the life of Ellis ‘‘Reed’’ Parlier.
f
RECOGNIZING KATHY HAGGART
ON HER RETIREMENT AFTER 22
YEARS AT THE BOYS AND GIRLS
CLUBS OF BELLEVUE
HON. ADAM SMITH
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker,
I rise to honor and congratulate Kathy
Haggart, the CEO and President of the Boys
& Girls Clubs of Bellevue, on her retirement.
Kathy Haggart has had a remarkable career
in the nonprofit sector—having worked in non-
profit management for nearly 36 years. Ms.
Haggart has spent the majority of her nonprofit
work with the Boys & Girls Clubs of Bellevue
serving as the President and CEO for 22
years. She was appointed as the President
and CEO in 1997 after a successful term as
the Club’s Director of Development. In her po-
sition as President and CEO, Kathy oversaw
12 Club locations and managed a multi-million
dollar budget. Ms. Haggart is an incredible,
high-performing leader with an exceptional
ability to bring teams together.
During her time as President and CEO, Ms.
Haggart fostered strong relationships between
the Boys & Girls Clubs and the larger commu-
nity. She strengthened partnerships with the
City of Bellevue, the Bellevue School District,
the King County Housing Authority, Youth
Eastside Services, and other notable commu-
nity organizations. She has helped shift the
focus of the Clubs to include community out-
reach and services for parents as well.
Under her guidance, the Boys & Girls Clubs
of Bellevue expanded from one clubhouse to
over 12 program sites. Additionally, the Club
received many awards for program excellence
from the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and
local organizations. These include ‘‘Best of’’
recognition in several local publications, and
selection as a ‘‘Community Treasure’’ by a
local school. The Boys & Girls Clubs of Belle-
vue serve over 11,000 children and teenagers
with educational programming, afterschool ac-
tivities, summer programs, and athletics. The
Boys & Girls Clubs of Bellevue thrived under
Ms. Haggart’s innovative leadership.
Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure
that I recognize and congratulate Kathy
Haggart on her retirement from her longtime
service to the adolescents of the Bellevue
community.
IN HONOR OF HELENA SCHWARZ
HON. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today with bittersweet
sentiment and thanks to my Legislative Direc-
tor, Helena Schwarz.
Helena has spent her career focusing on
public service. Working in the Maryland Legis-
lature, and eventually here in the U.S. House
of Representatives, she has always found
ways to support policies and people she be-
lieves in.
Helena joined my office more than four
years ago after serving in the office of my col-
league, Congressman SARBANES from Mary-
land. During her tenure on ‘‘Team Boyle’’ she
has been a steady hand that provided guid-
ance to the legislative team and substantive
policy advice to me. She is thorough, dedi-
cated, and always willing to advocate for poli-
cies in which she believes.
A Michigan native, Helena quickly adapted
to the City of Brotherly Love. In her time here,
she’s worked tirelessly to elevate the voices of
blue-collar workers and the shrinking middle
class, and to ensure that all Americans have
a fair shot at achieving the American Dream.
The people we serve in my district have great-
ly benefited from her service to this institution.
Helena will still be part of the important pol-
icy debates we have ahead of us, as she
leaves to lead an advocacy effort focused on
America’s infrastructure agenda.
I wish her the best of luck on this venture,
and I look forward to seeing her package on
the House floor in the future.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE WATER IN-
FRASTRUCTURE TRUST FUND
ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
America’s water systems are in crisis. While
our clean water needs are estimated to be
nearly $14 billion per year for the next 20
years, funding has averaged less than $1.5
billion annually since 2011. Drinking water in-
frastructure is in worse shape—the Environ-
mental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates
that we need to invest over $23 billion annu-
ally for the next 20 years to ensure the provi-
sion of safe drinking water, while Congress
typically appropriates less than $1 billion a
year. Though most of our water and waste-
water systems are 75–100 years old, these
growing challenges are not due to age alone:
federal investment has fallen more than 85
percent since 1977. Last year alone, American
communities suffered more than 250,000
water main breaks and saw overflowing com-
bined sewer systems. These problems will
only increase with inadequate and inconsistent
funding. That is why I am introducing the
Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act of 2019.
This legislation will provide a small, deficit-
neutral source of revenue to help states re-
place, repair, and rehabilitate critical clean and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.016 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E589
May 14, 2019
drinking water facilities. Half of the trust fund
revenue will be distributed to local govern-
ments as grants and loans through the Clean
Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) for
wastewater treatment construction, while the
other half will be distributed through the Drink-
ing Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) to
finance projects to meet federal drinking water
standards. The Water Infrastructure Trust
Fund will be capitalized by a voluntary labeling
and fee system, to which businesses that rely
on a clean water source can opt-in. Partici-
pating businesses would include a small label
on their products indicating their commitment
to protecting America’s clean water, contrib-
uting $0.03 to the trust fund per labelled unit.
Businesses and products that could take ad-
vantage of the labeling system include: water-
based beverages, products disposed of in
wastewater, and pharmaceuticals.
I look forward to working with my colleagues
to reduce pollution, protect public health, and
provide the funding communities need to en-
sure clean tap water.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TOM O’HALLERAN
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker, on May
8, 2019, I was present and voted for two bills
on the floor of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives. I voted in favor of H.R. 1520, the Purple
Book Continuity Act. However, my vote did not
register on Roll Call 188. I voted to advance
the legislation out of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee and supported its passage
on the House floor.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 50TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE J.W. DAR-
DEN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATING
CLASS OF 1969
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the 50th Anniversary of the
1969 graduating class of J.W. Darden High
School in Opelika, Alabama.
The purple and gold Panther alumni are
celebrating their 50 years since graduation.
The graduating class had 107 students and
date of graduation was May 1969. Class offi-
cers included: President—Charles Harper,
Vice President—Harvey Jackson, Secretary—
Evelyn Melton and Treasurer—Frances
Forman. Mr. Wilbert D. Payne, Jr. serves as
local Chairperson of the 1969 graduating
class.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing the 1969 graduating class of J.W. Dar-
den High School and congratulate them on
this 50-year milestone.
RECOGNIZING JON FINE ON HIS
RETIREMENT AFTER 18 YEARS
AT UNITED WAY OF KING COUN-
TY
HON. ADAM SMITH
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker,
I rise to honor and congratulate Jon Fine, the
CEO and President of United Way of King
County, on his retirement.
Jon Fine has served as the CEO and Presi-
dent of United Way of King County for the
past 18 years. He has been credited with
making King County one of the leading
branches of United Way. Before joining United
Way, Mr. Fine had a distinguished career in fi-
nance, which aided his ability to restructure
United Way of King County’s giving program.
Under his leadership, United Way of King
County’s programs have thrived. Mr. Fine led
the growth of the homelessness prevention
program to include over 2,200 units of perma-
nent supportive housing. In addition, Mr.
Fine’s commitment to ensuring all youth have
access to education helped to scale the
United Way’s parent-child home program from
serving 160 families to over 1,300 families—
with the goal of providing better educational
outcomes for low-income children. Mr. Fine
also spearheaded the creation of the Gates
Challenge Endowment, which is one of the
largest fundraising campaigns of any United
Way chapter.
Throughout his tenure, Jon Fine fostered in-
novative partnerships with businesses and
other organizations that strengthened United
Way of King County. Mr. Fine always encour-
aged program staff to think big. He challenged
them to reach more people, start more serv-
ices, and expand fundraising. Mr. Fine’s com-
mitment to service, innovative thinking, and vi-
brant nature are sure to remain with the
United Way of King County going forward.
Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure
that I recognize and congratulate Jon Fine on
his retirement from his longtime service to the
communities of King County.
f
THE BAJRAKTARIS—50 YEARS IN
AMERICA—A STORY OF STRUG-
GLE, PERSEVERANCE, AND TRI-
UMPH
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor an extraordinary Albanian-American
family and my constituents, the Bajraktaris,
and their journey of struggles and triumphs.
Long before they came to the United States,
this family earned its place in history books
with acts of great bravery and generosity. The
Bajraktaris originally hail from their hometown
of Vranoc, located on the outside of Peja, a
city in Kosova. Throughout history, they were
locally recognized leaders who led more than
40 villages in the struggle for the freedom of
Kosova.
Empires came and went, but the Bajraktaris
remained. Their famous family towers and
homes were burned down at least five times
by various groups such as the Ottomans, the
Serbs, the Montenegrins, the Fascists, the
Nazis and then by the Communists. Each time
they stood up to the invaders, chased them
out, and rebuilt their communities. They were
proud of their freedom, their Albanian heritage
and tradition, and they were proud defenders
of their homeland.
This is the context in which, Harry
Bajraktari, a well-known Albanian-American
leader, was born and grew up. Throughout his
life, Harry was inspired by the stories of strug-
gle for the survival of the Albanian nation and
the perseverance of his ancestors.
In 1969, the life of his family reached a turn-
ing point. Facing political oppression by the
Yugoslav government and economic hardship,
his parents, Metë and Ziza Bajraktari, decided
to journey to the United States of America, to-
gether with their four children, including Harry,
and his siblings, Nurija, Litafete and Hateme.
They traveled by train to Italy, where they
applied for political asylum in the United
States. After nine months away from home,
their application was approved, and on Feb-
ruary 24, 1970, the Bajraktari family arrived in
New York. They had no money and spoke no
English. Through their new community, they
found help from other families and friends who
had previously immigrated to the United
States. At the beginning, they lived at the
home of Musli and Hysen Mulosmani and their
family, who hosted them with generosity in
The Bronx, NY.
Over the last 50 years, I can personally at-
test that the Bajraktari family have achieved
the American Dream. They have been hard-
working and dedicated, and they have made
the most of the opportunities that their new
homeland has had to offer. Still, like many im-
migrants, life was not easy. Metë Bajraktari
worked as a maintenance worker during the
day and his wife Ziza as a janitor during the
night. Through sacrifice and determination,
Metë and Ziza strived to give their children a
chance for a better life.
Their sacrifices soon paid off. At the early
age of 20, my good friend, Harry Bajraktari,
exhibited extraordinary entrepreneurial skills
and spirit, when he began to purchase real es-
tate in The Bronx. Alongside his uncle,
Rrustem Gecaj, they founded Bajraktari Realty
and, in the following decades, expanded their
business ventures throughout New York and
Kosova.
Harry’s entrepreneurial achievements had a
major impact that extended well beyond the
reach of the Bajraktari family. His accomplish-
ments contributed to the revival in the Bronx
and, in turn, made it possible for him to help
an abundance of people in need. Bajraktari
Realty’s success created jobs and stimulated
growth for other businesses around his prop-
erties, ranging from real estate, restaurants,
and more. Once again, the Bajraktari family
legacy brought real change to the lives of peo-
ple in their community.
Though the family was experiencing suc-
cess in their new home, they never forgot the
people and the country they left behind. Their
birthplace, Kosova, descended into dark times
under the oppression of the Serbian
strongman, Slobodan Milosevic. At the same
time, and for over 50 years, Albania was
under the iron fist of communist dictator,
Enver Hoxha. The Bajraktari family answered
the call to help their homeland and began to
mobilize the people of Kosova and Albania.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.020 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E590 May 14, 2019
Harry Bajraktari soon became an Albanian-
American community leader and worked hard
to educate politicians, diplomats, and experts
on the issue of Kosova and Albania.
The Kosovar crisis was part of the larger
Yugoslavian implosion, with genocide and
massive war crimes ravaging the now-dis-
solved country. With waves of refugees and a
spreading instability in southern Europe, it was
clear that American leadership was des-
perately needed.
Fortunately, the cause for Kosovar inde-
pendence found broad bipartisan support in
Congress and throughout the country. With
Harry’s guidance, I helped found the bipartisan
Albanian Issues Caucus more than 25 years
ago. I’ll never forget traveling to Kosova in
1996 with Harry and raising the American flag
at the opening of the United States Informa-
tion Agency office in Kosova’s capital,
Prishtina.
Through his efforts fighting for freedom in
Kosova, Harry and many of his friends in the
Albanian American community came to know
and work closely with leaders in the Senate
and House. Across the American political
spectrum, Harry led his community in meet-
ings with key leaders, including Senator Bob
Dole, Vice President Biden, MITCH MCCON-
NELL, Alfonse D’Amato, Tom Lantos, Susan
Molinari, and many others.
In his advocacy for independence in Kosova
and democracy in Albania, Harry Bajraktari
contributed to community organizations, wrote-
op-eds, met with American and international
officials, testified in the U.S. Congress and
spoke at many rallies. In 1991, he founded
Illyria, a modern and professional Albanian-
American newspaper. Based in New York, it
had subscribers throughout the United States
and overseas. To this day, Illyria remains a
voice for Albanian-Americans and continues to
inform the community and the American peo-
ple.
In 1992, President George H.W. Bush
issued what is known as the Christmas Warn-
ing to Milosevic, threatening military interven-
tion if Serbia provoked a war in Kosova. In
March 1999, after Belgrade’s tanks rolled into
Kosova, President Bill Clinton fulfilled that
promise, and the United States led NATO in
war against Yugoslavia. They stopped a hu-
manitarian catastrophe and the ethnic cleans-
ing of more than a million Albanians, and liber-
ated Kosova.
This represented the end of the wars of
Milosevic’s Balkan wars and, one year later,
he fell from power, ushering in a new era of
relative peace and stability in the region. In
2008, Kosova became the newest inde-
pendent country in Europe with the support
and the recognition of the United States. It is
now recognized by more than 110 nations.
Harry Bajraktari followed the example of
other great Albanian-American leaders of the
early 20th century like Bishop Fan Noli and
Ambassador Faik Konitza, who worked to
forge the special relationship and historic
friendship between ethnic Albanians and the
United States of America. He was also in-
spired by a great Albanian American leader in
business and politics, Anthony Athanas, in
Boston.
Harry and many others from such states as
New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Con-
necticut, Texas, Illinois, Michigan and other
states worked together and became instru-
mental in making the voice of Albanian Ameri-
cans heard in Washington. They founded the
National Albanian American Council, which
was the leading Albanian American organiza-
tion in Washington, D.C. for many years.
Although Metë Bajraktari passed away in
1998 and did not live to see his dream of a
free and independent Kosova come true, his
family continues remember him as they con-
tinue to fight for their homeland. Today, a
major shopping center in Peja is dedicated to
him, fifty years after he fled Belgrade’s op-
pression. That shopping center stands strong
in the heart of the city and I am honored that
a street in my name borders that facility.
For his great work in support of Kosova’s
independence, advocacy for democracy in Al-
bania, and human rights throughout the Bal-
kans, Harry Bajraktari has been recognized
with the highest medals and honors. These
awards are high honors from the President of
Kosova, the President of Albania and recogni-
tion from the White House. When the story of
Kosova is finally told, let us always recall the
commitment of Harry Bajraktari and his family.
Here in the United States, Harry Bajraktari
is recognized for his support for humanitarian
and community initiatives. He and his family
are proud, patriotic, Americans with a deep
gratitude for what their new home, the United
States, has given to them, and, in exchange,
their hard work and success has made New
York and this country a better place to live.
When they arrived on these shores, the
Bajraktaris were only six people. A seventh,
the youngest sibling, Miftar, was born during
that first year in America. Today, Harry
Bajraktari is the proud father of four children
and has eight grandchildren. His sister, Nurije
(Bajraktari) Osmani has four children and
three grandchildren. Litafete (Bajraktari) Gega
has four children and one grandchild. Hateme
(Bajraktari) Nezaj has three children. Miftar
Bajraktari has three children.
Metë and Ziza have passed away, but their
memory lives with their children, grandchildren
and great grandchildren. The continued story
of the Bajraktari family will live on as a sin-
gular example of achieving the American
dream. And today, their vision has become a
reality, and their promises have been fulfilled.
Harry has told me on many occasions his fam-
ily’s journey to America and the opportunities
afforded to them through this journey was
worth their many sacrifices. These are the
kind of stories and people that add depth and
humanity to our country’s rich heritage. And,
for myself, I am proud to call Harry Bajraktari
and his family close personal friends and to
honor the 50th anniversary of their arrival in
the United States.
f
RECOGNIZING CHIEF BRETT
MCVANNEL FOR HIS SERVICE IN
THE GAYLORD CITY POLICE DE-
PARTMENT
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Brett McVannel for his re-
tirement as chief of the Gaylord City Police
Department. Through his exceptional leader-
ship and steadfast devotion to his community,
Brett has become an indispensable part of
Michigan’s First District.
Born and raised in Gaylord, Chief McVannel
dedicated nearly 25 years of his life to the
people of Michigan, serving in Kalkaska and
Otsego County before becoming chief in Gay-
lord. During his tenure Brett thrived as a lead-
er and communicator, working productively
with other local leaders and forming a familial
bond in the department he oversaw. His ex-
ceptional leadership skills are reflected in the
excellence of the officers who have served
under him and the trust placed in him by the
people of Northern Michigan. Chief
McVannel’s constant dedication to the public
good is commendable, and the impact of his
work on the people of Northern Michigan can-
not be overstated.
Madam Speaker. it is my honor to recognize
Chief Brett McVannel for his decades of serv-
ice to the people of our state. Michiganders
can take great pride in knowing the First Dis-
trict is home to such a devoted individual. On
behalf of my constituents, I wish Brett all the
best in his future endeavors.
f
RECOGNIZING LIEUTENANT
DANIEL SWAIM
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Lieutenant
Daniel Swaim for his exceptional service to
the House CAO Office of Finance’s Budget,
Planning and Analysis (BPA) division.
Lt. Swaim was detailed to BPA during a vital
period to coordinate the Fiscal Year (FY) 2020
budget formulation process and assist with
execution of the House’s FY 2019 resources.
His superior knowledge of the federal budg-
eting process, keen analytical skills, and work
ethic enabled BPA to mitigate its temporary
personnel gaps. Lt. Swaim’s efforts facilitated
better insight on available resources, led to
optimal decision making on allocation of funds,
and ultimately enabled timely delivery of a well
justified FY 2020 House Budget.
Lt. Swaim’s stellar professionalism and de-
votion to duty reflect great credit upon himself
and are in keeping with the highest traditions
of the United States Coast Guard.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Lt. Swaim for his dedication and
service and wish him fair winds and following
seas as he embarks on his next assignment
as the Commanding Officer of USCG Cutter
Sturgeon Bay.
f
HONORING RONALD DELLUMS
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, we cele-
brate our colleague and friend Ronald Dellums
at a time of historic polarization in Congress.
It is a good time to remember the peace advo-
cate who chaired the Armed Services Com-
mittee with such equanimity that he won the
respect, even the friendship, of those who op-
posed every cause, of the many into which
Ron poured his considerable talent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.024 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E591
May 14, 2019
I first came to admire Ron even before
being elected to Congress from my work in
the Free South Africa anti-apartheid move-
ment. For 14 years, Ron did not relent until he
freed his landmark bill for South Africa divest-
ment, overcoming a presidential veto.
By the time I was elected to Congress, Ron
had already been chair of the District of Co-
lumbia Committee for more than a decade.
That committee is long gone, and nothing
would have pleased Chairman Dellums more
than its demise. But when freedom-loving Ron
Dellums first came to Congress, he knew that
if there had to be such a Committee, he want-
ed a seat on it. Just as Ron sought peace by
serving on the Armed Service Committee, he
sought to free D.C. from congressional control
by serving on the D.C. Committee.
He joined the D.C. Committee during his
very first term in Congress. Upon becoming
chair of the Committee, Ron framed his serv-
ice as ‘‘an advocate, not an overseer of Dis-
trict affairs.’’ No sooner had Ron gotten to
Congress in 1975, in his very first term, long
before I even thought about becoming a Mem-
ber, he introduced the first D.C. statehood bill.
Ron would relish our progress today as we
close in on enough votes for the D.C. state-
hood bill to pass in the House this term. We
expect a vote soon in the Oversight and Re-
form Committee to send the bill to the House
Floor. When that committee vote occurs, we
will not be able to claim we are breaking new
or historic ground. In 1987, more than 30
years ago, Chairman Ron Dellums proclaimed,
‘‘There should be no colonies in a democracy’’
and led the District Committee in a vote for
statehood for the District of Columbia that
passed in his Committee.
The American citizens who live in the na-
tion’s capital will forever remember Ron Del-
lums, prescient warrior for equality and free-
dom—and well ahead of his time—a leader for
statehood for the District of Columbia.
f
LORELEI DOMKE—CRITICAL
LANGUAGE SCHOLARSHIP (CLS)
HON. FRANCIS ROONEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in honor of Lorelei Domke, a Cape
Coral, FL resident and senior at New College
of Florida studying Chinese language and cul-
ture, who was awarded the U.S. Department
of State’s Critical Language Scholarship.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program
is merit-based and funded through an annual
appropriation to the U.S. Department of
State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Af-
fairs.
The scholarship program seeks to expand
the number of Americans studying foreign lan-
guages for national security and economic
prosperity by providing instruction abroad in
fourteen key languages. Out of more than
5,500 student applications, Ms. Domke was
among the 572 students to be selected.
I congratulate Lorelei on her selection for
the Critical Language Scholarship and look
forward to seeing the contributions she will
make to our community.
INTRODUCTION OF THE MAPLE
ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I am reintroducing the Maintaining Appropriate
Protections For Legal Entry (MAPLE) Act. This
bill, which is included within the Responsibly
Addressing the Marijuana Policy Gap Act
(H.R. 1119), would exempt cannabis-use and/
or participation in the cannabis industry as a
disqualification for entry into the United States
from a country that has ended its marijuana
prohibition and would protect foreign nationals
who participate in cannabis activity in states
where it’s legal from deportation.
Our federal cannabis laws are outdated and
out of touch. They also have negatively im-
pacted countless lives. Congress cannot con-
tinue to be out of touch with a movement that
a growing majority of Americans support. It’s
time to end this senseless prohibition.
f
HONORING DR. HIRAM TAVAREZ
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the career of Dr. Hiram
Tavarez from McAllen, Texas. Dr. Tavarez re-
cently retired after dedicating his career to the
health and prosperity of the people of South
Texas. For the past 55 years, he has worked
tirelessly to help people in the Rio Grande
Valley lead healthy lives.
Dr. Tavarez earned his medical degree from
the Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon in
Monterrey, Mexico, and started his residency
in internal medicine at Scott & White Memorial
Hospital in Temple, Texas. In 1965, Dr.
Tavarez finished his residency and joined his
brothers, Marvin and Vicente, in McAllen
where they began practicing medicine. There,
they opened the Tavarez Medical Center
which still serves our community today. In the
early days of the Tavarez Medical Center,
Hiram and his brothers frequently made house
calls homes to administer treatment and care.
Dr. Tavarez would continue to demonstrate his
unwavering commitment to serving others
throughout his career. His good deeds did not
go unnoticed as he received several honors
and awards for his commitment to his commu-
nity and patients.
Dr. Tavarez’s dedication to helping others is
matched by his staff’s loyalty and mission of
service. The staff at the Tavarez Medical Cen-
ter consistently praise Dr. Tavarez for his
compassion and his kindness; sentiments
echoed by his patients. For more than half a
century, Dr. Tavarez has unfailingly ensured
every patient receives the highest quality care
possible. His past shines brightly with his good
feats, and his retirement is well deserved.
Madam Speaker, Dr. Tavarez is a pillar of
the community in South Texas and serves as
an example to all of us. It is truly an honor to
represent dedicated, selfless individuals like
him.
OFFICER ANTHONY NERI
HON. FRANCIS ROONEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in honor of Anthony Neri, an officer
with the Sanibel Police Department who
passed away on Monday, May 6, 2019. Mr.
Neri had served the Sanibel Police Depart-
ment since 2012, and as an officer since
2015.
Prior to serving with the Police Department
in Sanibel, Mr. Neri was a Revenue Officer
with the U.S. Department of the Treasury for
30 years. He also served as a police officer in
Union Township, New Jersey prior to moving
to Southwest Florida.
Officer Neri was honored along with 18
other officers at the Lee County Fallen Officer
Memorial Ceremony held on Tuesday, May 7,
2019 at Centennial Park in Fort Myers, Flor-
ida.
I am grateful to Officer Neri for his service
to our community, and my thoughts and pray-
ers are with his friends and family.
f
OPINION PIECE BY U.S. AMBAS-
SADOR TO ISRAEL DAVID M.
FRIEDMAN
HON. LEE M. ZELDIN
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to include in the RECORD the following piece
authored by U.S. Ambassador to Israel, David
M. Friedman in honor of the one-year anniver-
sary of the U.S. embassy opening in Jeru-
salem:
A YEAR AFTER OPENING THE JERUSALEM
EMBASSY: ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY
On May 14, 2018, the United States finally
opened its embassy in Israel’s eternal cap-
ital, Jerusalem. In making the courageous
decision to take this historic step, President
Donald Trump not only fulfilled a 23-year-old
mandate from the United States Congress
but he also recognized a 3,000-year-old truth
that Israel’s enemies have long sought to
erase.
America has been fascinated by Jerusalem
since the early days of our republic. In 1844,
Warder Cresson, the first consul general, an-
nounced after his appointment by the sec-
retary of state that the United States was
thereby extending its protection to the Jews
of Jerusalem. The first permanent consular
presence opened just inside the Jaffa Gate in
1857, and diplomatic presence has remained
constant in and around the Old City ever
since. President Abraham Lincoln, just be-
fore his death, told his wife how he longed to
visit Jerusalem. And President Ulysses
Grant and Mark Twain both visited Jeru-
salem in the mid–19th century and wrote ex-
tensively about their experiences.
Neither Grant nor Twain were all that im-
pressed with Jerusalem in those days. It was
poor, inhospitable and undeveloped. The Old
City of Jerusalem remained that way well
into the 20th century, whether under the rule
of the Ottoman Empire until 1917, the Brit-
ish Mandate until 1948, or the Kingdom of
Jordan until 1967. In 1967, Jerusalem was re-
unified as a single city under Israeli rule. Al-
most immediately, Jerusalem began to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.027 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E592 May 14, 2019
bloom, to flourish and to become, for the
first time in its history, a free city open to
the worshipers of all three Abrahamic faiths.
Many in the United States took notice and,
in 1995, Congress, by overwhelming majority
votes, passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act,
recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of the
State of Israel and requiring the relocation
of the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jeru-
salem.
Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush
and Barack Obama all found reasons to avoid
the implementation of this law. All in all,
more than 40 presidential waivers were
signed delaying the move of the Embassy.
And then came President Trump.
Trump recognized the truth—that Jeru-
salem was, is and will always be the capital
of Israel. He saw the dishonest and shameful
efforts of UNESCO and the United Nations
Security Council to deny Israel’s biblical,
historical and practical connection to Jeru-
salem. And he refused to pursue a foreign
policy based upon anything short of the
truth. President Trump, like other Repub-
lican and Democratic candidates before him,
had promised during his campaign to move
the Embassy. Unlike his predecessors,
Trump kept his promise.
The United States Embassy in Jerusalem
has now been open a full year. We have a
beautiful campus in the Arnona suburb and
magnificent facilities on Agron Street in
downtown Jerusalem. Well more than 100
American diplomats come to work every
day, working hand in hand with Israelis and
Palestinians, and American and foreign tour-
ists visit every day just to take a picture or
say a prayer. Contrary to all the negative
predictions, the Jerusalem embassy has been
an extraordinary success, advancing peaceful
coexistence, bilateral cooperation and cul-
tural exchange between and among Israelis,
Palestinians and Americans.
Most of all, the United States Embassy in
Jerusalem stands for the truth—the bedrock
of all successful policies. Moving our em-
bassy places the United States firmly on the
right side of history.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MICH
MATSUDAIRA
HON. ADAM SMITH
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker,
I rise to honor the life and legacy of Martin
‘‘Mich’’ Matsudaira. Mr. Matsudaira was a pil-
lar for Asian American advocacy in Wash-
ington State. He dedicated his life to increas-
ing awareness for the history and challenges
of those in the Asian American community.
Mr. Matsudaira was an influential voice in
Washington State. Serving as the first Director
of The Commission on Asian Pacific American
Affairs (CAPAA)—he helped create one of the
first and most successful commissions of its
kind. His work with CAPAA has touched thou-
sands of people’s lives. From his advocacy on
behalf of Vietnamese Refugees during the
transition process after the Vietnam War, to
leading the charge for the redress of Execu-
tive Order 9066 and Japanese Internment, Mr.
Matsudaira was a champion for Asian-Amer-
ican rights and a political advocate.
Mr. Matsudaira personally understood the
challenges that Asian-Americans face in our
country. Growing up, he and his family spent
three years in a Japanese internment camp.
After his service in the United States Air Force
from 1955 to 1960, he graduated from the
University of Washington with a degree in eco-
nomics and went to work for Boeing. He
worked tirelessly to promote social justice
throughout his career, and became a cham-
pion for diverse communities in Washington
State. On top of his critical work in public serv-
ice, he ran a small business called Mich’s
Mens’ Shop, and raised four children. Mr.
Matsudaira will be remembered for his
groundbreaking efforts in civil rights, and his
commitment to the community around him.
Madam Speaker, it is with great honor and
humility that I recognize the life of Mich
Matsudaira, a staple of the Seattle Commu-
nity, and a leader in civic service.
f
ELLEN TAUSCHER
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, Ellen Tau-
scher was tough, strategic and effective.
As we mourn the loss of our friend Ellen, we
are reminded of not only of the deals that she
forged here in the halls of Congress, but also
the continued treaties that she established be-
tween nations.
As we have heard many of my colleagues
stress today, Ellen stands out because she
created success and opportunity in rare, tough
situations.
I knew Ellen could always bring all sides to
the table.
Ellen’s work at the highest levels of govern-
ment have roots in her remarkable career prior
to politics—being a trailblazing member of the
New York Stock Exchange and founding the
ChildCare Registry in Northern California.
Her bold leadership style created an envi-
ronment of confidence and trust.
On a personal level, I remember the fun
times we had together talking and sharing the
adventures—highs and lows of our kids.
Today and as we move forward, I know the
world is safer because of Ellen Tauscher’s
leadership in the State Department and Armed
Services Committee. We will all miss her cour-
age, her thoughtfulness, and her humanity
f
NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
WEEK 2019
HON. LORI TRAHAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I rise dur-
ing National Law Enforcement Week 2019 to
honor the valiant men and women who protect
and serve the city of Haverhill, Massachusetts.
The Haverhill Police Department consists of
outstanding public servants who devote their
lives to keeping the citizens of the city safe,
while improving the lives of countless individ-
uals.
Like most Americans each day, they get up,
say goodbye to their loved ones, and head to
work. But their work, and the work of police of-
ficers around the country, is like no other.
From the moment they put on their uniform
they have answered a call that at any moment
may put their lives in harm’s way.
I thank the Haverhill Police Department for
their continued and unwavering service and
wish them well in their careers and future en-
deavors to come.
Madam Speaker, it is with great honor that
I recognize the Officers of the Haverhill Mas-
sachusetts Police Department.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE AND LEG-
ACY OF JUDGE DAMON J. KEITH
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, it is with great
honor that I rise today to recognize the Honor-
able Judge Damon J. Keith for his leadership
and tremendous contributions to the civil rights
movement, and to honor his memory.
Born on July 4th, 1922 in Detroit, Michi-
gan—a fitting birth date for a man who upheld
the rights so cherished by our nation—Damon
Keith was the youngest of six children born to
Annie and Perry Alexander, a Ford factory
worker. Keith was a proud graduate of the De-
troit Public School System, graduating with
honors from Northwestern High School in
1939. Keith was the first of his family to attend
college and from there he went on to serve in
the military before graduating from Howard
University Law School in 1949. Judge Keith
returned to Detroit to begin his legal career,
earning an LLM from Wayne State University.
Damon Keith worked in his own private law
practice until 1967 when he was appointed by
President Lyndon Johnson to the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Michigan.
Judge Keith served as Chief Judge from 1975
to 1977 before he was appointed by President
Jimmy Carter to the Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit.
Judge Keith’s career is distinguished by his
tireless defense of the U.S. Constitution. He
decided several important cases that ad-
vanced civil rights in the State of Michigan.
His legacy in the civil rights movement in-
cludes deciding cases against segregating
schools, employment and housing discrimina-
tion, and federal wiretapping policies. Key
among these cases are a 1970 decision order-
ing desegregation of Pontiac schools, a 1971
ruling that Nixon and AG Mitchell violated the
federal constitution by wiretapping students in
Ann Arbor, and lastly a 2002 ruling that depor-
tation hearings held in private are unconstitu-
tional—an opinion in which he famously wrote,
‘‘Democracies die behind closed doors.’’ He
was also instrumental in upholding the rights
of local workers across the state. In 1973,
Judge Keith ordered Detroit Edison to pay $4
million to black employees who were victims
of job discrimination and ordered the company
to create an affirmative action program. He
also ordered the union to pay $250,000 for
failing to protect their workers from discrimina-
tion. His tireless work and fight to advance the
quality of life for all people are memories and
values we will forever cherish and continue to
uphold.
It is a great privilege to recognize a gen-
tleman who contributed so much of his life to
fight for human rights and civil equality for
human beings. This is in recognition of a great
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.032 E14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E593
May 14, 2019
loss to our state and a tribute to Judge Keith’s
surviving family as we honor his legacy.
f
TRIBUTE TO NCSU ATHLETIC
DIRECTOR DEBBIE YOW
HON. DAVID E. PRICE
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. Debbie
Yow, Athletic Director at North Carolina State
University (NCSU), who is retiring this month.
Dr. Yow joined the Wolfpack in 2010 with the
responsibility of leading the athletics depart-
ment of the largest university in North Caro-
lina. In her eight-year tenure, Dr. Yow has
worked to make NCSU’s athletics department
one of the best in the nation—both in the
classroom and in competition.
Dr. Yow’s tenure as the athletic director has
been marked by the unprecedented academic
success of NCSU’s student-athletes. This past
year, an all-time high of 59 NCSU student-ath-
letes were named academic All-Americans.
Overall, the students reached a record grad-
uation rate. Under Dr. Yow’s tenure, the Wolf-
pack also made remarkable improvements in
competition. In the last three years, an aver-
age of 79 students were named competitive
All-Americans, an all-time high for NCSU stu-
dent-athletes. From 2010–12, the school made
the biggest single jump of any Atlantic Coast
Conference school in history, improving from
No. 89 to No. 37 in NACDA rankings.
Dr. Yow has received numerous accolades
for her outstanding leadership. The National
Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics
recently selected her as the 2018–19 Under
Armour Athletic Director of the Year and
named her the 2019 James J. Corbett Memo-
rial Award Recipient, which is the highest
honor one can achieve in collegiate athletics
administration. Both Street and Smith’s Sports
Business Journal and the Chronicle of Higher
Education have cited Dr. Yow as one of the
20 most influential people in college athletics.
Additionally, she was selected to serve on the
President’s U.S. Department of Education
Commission on Opportunities in Athletics, to
review the status of Federal Title IX regula-
tions, and was inducted into the North Caro-
lina Sports Hall of Fame in 2006.
Prior to serving as athletic director at NCSU,
Dr. Yow served as athletic director at Univer-
sity of Maryland, where she was the first fe-
male athletic director in the ACC. Before be-
coming an administrator, she served as the
women’s basketball coach at University of
Kentucky, Oral Roberts University, and the
University of Florida. Yow also served as a
high school coach at Williams High (Bur-
lington, NC) and Eastern Guilford High
(Gibsonville, NC). She received a bachelor’s
degree from Elon University and a master’s
degree from Liberty University. Yow also has
been awarded honorary doctorates from Elon,
Liberty and the United States Sports Acad-
emy.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Dr. Debbie Yow for her out-
standing contributions to NC State University
and to thousands of student athletes.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I was
unable to be present for the following votes on
Thursday, May 9th and Friday, May 10th.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
NAY on Roll Call No. 195; YEA on Roll Call
No. 196; YEA on Roll Call No. 197; YEA on
Roll Call No. 198; YEA on Roll Call No. 199;
YEA on Roll Call No. 200; NAY on Roll Call
No. 201; and YEA on Roll Call No. 202.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14MY8.036 E14MYPT1
D529
Tuesday, May 14, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2797–S2843
Measures Introduced: Thirty-three bills and twelve
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1438–1470, S.J. Res. 21–26, and S. Res. 205–210.
Pages S2814–16
Measures Passed:
National Police Week: Senate agreed to S. Res.
209, designating the week of May 12 through May
18, 2019, as ‘‘National Police Week’’. Page S2837
National Senior Fraud Awareness Day: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 210, supporting the designation of
May 15, 2019, as ‘‘National Senior Fraud Awareness
Day’’ to raise awareness about the increasing number
of fraudulent schemes targeting seniors in the
United States, to encourage the implementation of
policies to prevent those schemes, and to improve
protections from those schemes for seniors.
Page S2837
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program:
Senate passed S. 1231, to reauthorize the Bulletproof
Vest Partnership Grant Program, after agreeing to
the committee amendments. Page S2837
Lee Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Kenneth Kiyul
Lee, of California, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Ninth Circuit. Pages S2799–S2802, S2802–06
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 50 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. EX. 109), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S2800
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that all time during recess, adjournment,
morning business and Leader remarks count post-clo-
ture on the nomination. Page S2800
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Wednes-
day, May 15, 2019. Pages S2837–38
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 49 yeas to 46 nays (Vote No. EX. 108), Mi-
chael J. Truncale, of Texas, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
Pages S2797–99, S2843
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Theodore Rokita, of Indiana, to be a Director of
the Amtrak Board of Directors for the remainder of
the term expiring January 3, 2021.
John Leslie Carwile, of Maryland, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Latvia.
Monica David Morris, of Florida, to be a Commis-
sioner of the United States Parole Commission for a
term of six years. Page S2843
Messages from the House: Page S2811
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S2811, S2837
Executive Communications: Pages S2811–12
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S2812–14
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S2814
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2816–19
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2819–36
Additional Statements: Pages S2810–11
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S2836–37
Privileges of the Floor: Page S2837
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—109) Pages S2799–S2800
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:20 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
May 15, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
pages S2837–38.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee ordered favorably reported the nominations of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D530 May 14, 2019
Mindy Brashears, of Texas, to be Under Secretary for
Food Safety, Naomi C. Earp, of Maryland, to be an
Assistant Secretary, and Scott Hutchins, of Indiana,
to be Under Secretary for Research, Education, and
Economics, all of the Department of Agriculture.
BUDGET AND SPENDING PROCESS
Committee on the Budget: Committee concluded a hear-
ing to examine fixing a broken budget and spending
process, focusing on the perspectives of two former
Chairmen, after receiving testimony from former
Senators Judd Gregg and Kent Conrad.
THE EMERGING SPACE ENVIRONMENT
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Aviation and Space concluded a hear-
ing to examine the emerging space environment, fo-
cusing on operational, technical, and policy chal-
lenges, after receiving testimony from James F.
Bridenstine, Administrator, and Pamela A. Melroy,
Astronaut (Ret.), both of the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration; Kevin M. O’Connell, Di-
rector, Office of Space Commerce, Department of
Commerce; Lieutenant General David D. Thompson,
Vice Commander, Air Force Space Command, De-
partment of Defense; and Robert Cardillo, former
Director, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency,
Alexandria, Virginia.
ACHIEVING MINERAL SECURITY
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the importance of
and path to achieving mineral security, including S.
1052, to authorize the Office of Fossil Energy to de-
velop advanced separation technologies for the ex-
traction and recovery of rare earth elements and min-
erals from coal and coal byproducts, and S. 1317, to
facilitate the availability, development, and environ-
mentally responsible production of domestic re-
sources to meet national material or critical mineral
needs, after receiving testimony from Joseph Balash,
Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Manage-
ment, Department of the Interior; David Solan, Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary for Renewable Power, Office
of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Depart-
ment of Energy; Jonathan Evans, Lithium Americas,
Reno, Nevada; John Warner, American Battery Solu-
tions, Holly, Michigan, on behalf of the National
Alliance for Advanced Technology Batteries; and
Paul F. Ziemkiewicz, West Virginia University
Water Research Institute, Morgantown.
PUBLIC LANDS LEGISLATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Sub-
committee on Public Lands, Forests, and Mining
concluded a hearing to examine S. 242, to require
the Secretary of Agriculture to release reversionary
and reserved interests in certain land in the
Coconino National Forest in the State of Arizona, S.
258, to prohibit oil and gas leasing on the National
Forest System land in the Ruby Mountains Ranger
District located in the Humboldt-Toiyabe National
Forest, Elko and White Pine Counties, Nevada, S.
434, to provide for a report on the maintenance of
Federal land holdings under the jurisdiction of the
Secretary of the Interior, S. 490, to designate a
mountain ridge in the State of Montana as ‘‘B–47
Ridge’’, S. 499, to amend the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act to apply to territories of the United
States, to establish offshore wind lease sale require-
ments, to provide dedicated funding for coral reef
conservation, S. 526, to withdraw certain Bureau of
Land Management land from mineral development,
S. 1079, to provide for the withdrawal and protec-
tion of certain Federal land in the State of New
Mexico, and S. 1262, to designate certain land ad-
ministered by the Bureau of Land Management and
the Forest Service in the State of Oregon as wilder-
ness and national recreation areas, to withdraw cer-
tain land located in Curry County and Josephine
County, Oregon, from all forms of entry, appropria-
tion, or disposal under the public land laws, loca-
tion, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and
operation under the mineral leasing and geothermal
leasing laws, after receiving testimony from Senators
Braun and Udall; Frank R. Beum, Acting Associate
Deputy Chief, National Forest System, Forest Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture; and Michael Nedd,
Deputy Director for Operations, Bureau of Land
Management, Department of the Interior.
RETIREMENT SYSTEM CHALLENGES
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine challenges in the retirement system, after
receiving testimony from Tobias Read, Oregon State
Treasurer, Salem; Joni Tibbetts, Principal Financial
Group, Des Moines, Iowa; and Joan Ruff, AARP,
and Lynn D. Dudley, American Benefits Council,
both of Washington, D.C.
5G
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine 5G, focusing on national security
concerns, intellectual property issues, and the impact
on competition and innovation, after receiving testi-
mony from Christopher Krebs, Director, Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Department
of Homeland Security; Robert L. Strayer, Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of State for Cyber and International
Communications and Information Policy, Bureau of
Economic and Business Affairs; James Andrew Lewis,
Center for Strategic and International Studies, and
Peter Harrell, Center for a New American Security,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D531
May 14, 2019
both of Washington, D.C.; and Charles Clancy, Vir-
ginia Tech Hume Center for National Security and
Technology, Arlington, Virginia.
BUSINESS MEETING
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported an original bill entitled, ‘‘Damon
Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intel-
ligence Authorization Act (IAA) for Fiscal Year
2020’’.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 48 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2689–2736; 2 private bills, H.R.
2737–2738; and 6 resolutions, H. Con. Res. 38; and
H. Res. 378–382 were introduced. Pages H3787–90
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3791–93
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
Committee on Appropriations. Suballocation of
Budget Allocations for Fiscal Year 2020 (H. Rept.
116–59);
H.R. 389, to authorize the Secretary of the Treas-
ury to pay rewards under an asset recovery rewards
program to help identify and recover stolen assets
linked to foreign government corruption and the
proceeds of such corruption hidden behind complex
financial structures in the United States and abroad,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–60); and
H. Res. 377, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 5) to prohibit discrimination on the basis
of sex, gender identity, and sexual orientation, and
for other purposes; providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 312) to reaffirm the Mashpee Wampanoag
Tribe reservation, and for other purposes; and pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 987) to
amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act to provide for Federal Exchange outreach and
educational activities (H. Rept. 116–61). Page H3787
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Raskin to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H3731
Recess: The House recessed at 12:06 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Pages H3732–41
Recess: The House recessed at 2:10 p.m. and recon-
vened at 3 p.m. Page H3743
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of
2019: H.R. 299, amended, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating
to the exposure of certain veterans who served in the
vicinity of the Republic of Vietnam, by a 2⁄3 yea-
and-nay vote of 410 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’,
Roll No. 203; Pages H3743–51, H3771
Reauthorizing the Bulletproof Vest Partnership
Grant Program: H.R. 2379, amended, to reauthor-
ize the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program,
by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 400 yeas to 9 nays, Roll
No. 204; Pages H3751–55, H3771–72
First Responder Access to Innovative Tech-
nologies Act: H.R. 1594, to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a process to review
applications for certain grants to purchase equipment
or systems that do not meet or exceed any applicable
national voluntary consensus standards;
Pages H3755–56
Transit Security Grant Program Flexibility
Act: H.R. 1313, amended, to amend the Imple-
menting Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission
Act of 2007 to clarify certain allowable uses of funds
for public transportation security assistance grants
and establish periods of performance for such grants;
Pages H3756–58
Securing Department of Homeland Security
Firearms Act of 2019: H.R. 1437, to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the
Under Secretary for Management of the Department
of Homeland Security to achieve security of sensitive
assets among the components of the Department of
Homeland Security; Pages H3758–59
DHS Acquisition Documentation Integrity Act
of 2019: H.R. 1912, to amend the Homeland Secu-
rity Act of 2002 to provide for requirements relating
to documentation for major acquisition programs;
Pages H3759–61
DHS Intelligence Rotational Assignment Pro-
gram Act of 2019: H.R. 2066, to amend the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 to establish the Intel-
ligence Rotational Assignment Program in the De-
partment of Homeland Security; Pages H3762–63
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D532 May 14, 2019
National Flood Insurance Program Extension
Act of 2019: H.R. 2578, to reauthorize the National
Flood Insurance Program; Pages H3763–64
Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Act: H.R.
389, amended, to authorize the Secretary of the
Treasury to pay rewards under an asset recovery re-
wards program to help identify and recover stolen
assets linked to foreign government corruption and
the proceeds of such corruption hidden behind com-
plex financial structures in the United States and
abroad; Pages H3764–67
Building Up Independent Lives and Dreams
Act: H.R. 1060, amended, to provide regulatory re-
lief to charitable organizations that provide housing
assistance; and Pages H3767–69
Banking Transparency for Sanctioned Persons
Act of 2019: H.R. 1037, to increase transparency
with respect to financial services benefitting state
sponsors of terrorism, human rights abusers, and cor-
rupt officials. Pages H3769–70
Recess: The House recessed at 5:46 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H3771
Unanimous Consent Agreement: Agreed by unan-
imous consent that the proceedings during the
former Members program be printed in the Congres-
sional Record and that all Members and former
Members who spoke during the proceedings have the
privilege of revising and extending their remarks.
Page H3772
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Quadrennial Homeland Security Review Tech-
nical Corrections Act of 2019: H.R. 1892, To
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to make
technical corrections to the requirement that the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security submit quadrennial
homeland security reviews. Pages H3761–62
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency declared with respect to Yemen is
to continue in effect beyond May 16, 2019—referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to
be printed (H. Doc. 116–34). Page H3742
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H3771 and H3771–72. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 9:10 p.m.
Committee Meetings
EQUALITY ACT; MASHPEE WAMPANOAG
TRIBE RESERVATION REAFFIRMATION
ACT; MARKETING AND OUTREACH
RESTORATION TO EMPOWER HEALTH
EDUCATION ACT OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 5, the ‘‘Equality Act’’; H.R. 312, the ‘‘Mash-
pee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffirmation
Act’’; and H.R. 987, the ‘‘Marketing and Outreach
Restoration to Empower Health Education Act of
2019’’ [Strengthening Health Care and Lowering
Prescription Drug Costs Act]. The Committee grant-
ed, by record vote of 9–4, a rule providing for con-
sideration of H.R. 5, the ‘‘Equality Act’’, H.R. 312,
the ‘‘Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaf-
firmation Act’’, and H.R. 987, the ‘‘Strengthening
Health Care and Lowering Prescription Drug Costs
Act’’. Section 1 of the rule provides for consideration
of H.R. 5, the ‘‘Equality Act’’, under a closed rule.
The rule provides 90 minutes of debate equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on the Judiciary.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the bill. The rule provides that the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the
bill shall be considered as adopted and the bill, as
amended, shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against provisions in the
bill, as amended. The rule provides one motion to
recommit with or without instructions. Section 2 of
the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 312, the
‘‘Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffirma-
tion Act’’, under a closed rule. The rule provides one
hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Natural Resources. The rule
waives all points of order against consideration of the
bill. The rule provides that the amendment in the
nature of a substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill
shall be considered as adopted and the bill, as
amended, shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against provisions in the
bill, as amended. The rule provides one motion to
recommit with or without instructions. Section 3 of
the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 987, the
‘‘Strengthening Health Care and Lowering Prescrip-
tion Drug Costs Act’’, under a structured rule. The
rule provides 90 minutes of general debate with 60
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D533
May 14, 2019
Energy and Commerce and 30 minutes equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Education and
Labor. The rule waives all points of order against
consideration of the bill. The rule provides that an
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–14 shall
be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against provisions in the bill, as
amended. The rule makes in order only those
amendments printed in the Rules Committee report.
Each such amendment may be offered only in the
order printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be consid-
ered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified
in the report equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
the report. Finally, the rule provides one motion to
recommit with or without instructions. Testimony
was heard from Chairman Grijalva, Chairman Nad-
ler, Chairman Pallone, and Representatives Collins of
Georgia, Gohmert, Lesko, Hartzler, King of Iowa,
Bucshon, Carter of Georgia, and Burgess.
COMPARTMENTED FY 2020 BUDGET
REQUEST
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Compartmented FY
2020 Budget Request’’. This hearing was closed.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
MAY 15, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies,
to hold hearings to examine proposed budget estimates
and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department
of Agriculture Forest Service, 9:30 a.m., SD–124.
Subcommittee on Department of Defense, to hold
closed hearings to examine an intelligence program up-
date and global threat assessment, 10 a.m., SVC–217.
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Gov-
ernment, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget
estimates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the De-
partment of the Treasury, 10 a.m., SD–138.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold an oversight hearing to examine financial regulators,
9:30 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: busi-
ness meeting to consider S. 737, to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM education research
focused on early childhood, S. 1228, to amend the Com-
munications Act of 1934 to provide for enhanced pen-
alties for pirate radio, S. 1289, to require the Secretary
of Commerce to conduct an assessment and analysis of the
effects of broadband deployment and adoption on the
economy of the United States, S. 1294, to require Federal
agencies with jurisdiction over broadband deployment to
enter into an interagency agreement related to certain
types of funding for broadband deployment, and an origi-
nal bill entitled, ‘‘Maritime Administration Authorization
and Enhancement Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’; to be imme-
diately followed by a hearing to examine the nomination
of Stephen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to be Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee
on Water and Power, to hold hearings to examine issues
and challenges at the Power Marketing Administrations,
3 p.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold an
oversight hearing to examine the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the future of arms control post-Intermediate-Range
Nuclear Forces Treaty, 10:15 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
business meeting to consider S. 411, to establish a
Counterterrorism Advisory Board, S. 1275, to require the
collection of voluntary feedback on services provided by
agencies, S. 580, to amend the Act of August 25, 1958,
commonly known as the ‘‘Former Presidents Act of
1958’’, with respect to the monetary allowance payable to
a former President, S. 347, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 40 Fulton Street
in Middletown, New York, as the ‘‘Benjamin A. Gilman
Post Office Building’’, S. 1196, to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located at 1715
Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Fire
Captain Cory Barr Post Office Building’’, S. Con. Res.
15, expressing support for the designation of October 28,
2019, as ‘‘Honoring the Nation’s First Responders Day’’,
H.R. 995, to amend chapter 3 of title 5, United States
Code, to require the publication of settlement agree-
ments, H.R. 1079, to require the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget to issue guidance on elec-
tronic consent forms, H.R. 1608, to amend the Federal
Advisory Committee Act to increase the transparency of
Federal advisory committees, H.R. 1654, to amend title
44, United States Code, to modernize the Federal Reg-
ister, H.R. 1590, to require an exercise related to terrorist
and foreign fighter travel, H.R. 540, to designate the fa-
cility of the United States Postal Service located at 770
Ayrault Road in Fairport, New York, as the ‘‘Louise and
Bob Slaughter Post Office’’, H.R. 828, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at 25
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D534 May 14, 2019
Route 111 in Smithtown, New York, as the ‘‘Congress-
man Bill Carney Post Office’’, H.R. 829, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at
1450 Montauk Highway in Mastic, New York, as the
‘‘Army Specialist Thomas J. Wilwerth Post Office Build-
ing’’, an original bill entitled, ‘‘Improve Data on Sexual
Violence Act’’, an original bill entitled, ‘‘Repeal Insurance
Plans of the Multi-State Program Act’’, an original bill
entitled, ‘‘Supply Chain Counterintelligence Training Act
of 2019’’, an original bill entitled, ‘‘Construction Con-
sensus Procurement Improvement Act of 2019’’, an origi-
nal bill entitled, ‘‘Representative Payee Fraud Prevention
Act of 2019’’, an original bill entitled, ‘‘Early Participa-
tion in Regulations Act of 2019’’, an original bill enti-
tled, ‘‘Stopping Improper Payments to Deceased People
Act’’, an original bill entitled, ‘‘Setting Manageable Anal-
ysis Requirements in Text Act of 2019’’, and the nomi-
nations of James A. Crowell IV, and Jason Park, both to
be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Ron A. Bloom, of New York, and
Roman Martinez IV, of Florida, both to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service, Dale Cabaniss, of Vir-
ginia, to be Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, and Michael Eric Wooten, of Virginia, to be Ad-
ministrator for Federal Procurement Policy, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: business meeting to con-
sider S. 279, to allow tribal grant schools to participate
in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, S.
832, to nullify the Supplemental Treaty Between the
United States of America and the Confederated Tribes
and Bands of Indians of Middle Oregon, concluded on
November 15, 1865, and S. 1207, to approve the settle-
ment of the water rights claims of the Navajo Nation in
Utah; to be immediately following by an oversight hear-
ing to examine the President’s fiscal year 2020 budget re-
quest for Indian Programs, and S. 1211, to provide for
improvements to Tribal transportation facilities and Trib-
al transportation safety, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on Rules and Administration: to hold an over-
sight hearing to examine the Election Assistance Com-
mission, 2:30 p.m., SR–301.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: to hold
hearings to examine reauthorization of the Small Business
Administration’s innovation programs, 2:30 p.m.,
SR–428A.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Conservation
and Forestry, hearing entitled ‘‘To Review USDA Farm
Bill Conservation Programs’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Defense,
markup on the Defense Appropriations Bill, FY 2020, 10
a.m., H–140 Capitol. This hearing is closed.
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and
Related Agencies, markup on the Energy and Water De-
velopment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY
2020, 12 p.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, markup on the Interior, Environment, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020, 2 p.m.,
2008 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Keeping Our Promise to America’s Seniors: Retire-
ment Security in the 21st Century’’, 10 a.m., 210 Can-
non.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services, hearing entitled ‘‘Ex-
amining the Older Americans Act: Promoting Independ-
ence and Dignity for Older Americans’’, 10:15 a.m.,
2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Ac-
countability and Oversight of the Federal Communica-
tions Commission’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change,
hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting Americans at Risk of PFAS
Contamination and Exposure’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Financial Services, Subcommittee on Inves-
tor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital Markets,
hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting Economic Growth: A Re-
view of Proposals to Strengthen the Rights and Protec-
tions for Workers’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on National Security, International De-
velopment, and Monetary Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘As-
sessing the Use of Sanctions in Addressing National Secu-
rity and Foreign Policy Challenges’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the Mid-
dle East, North Africa, and International Terrorism, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The Conflict in Libya’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, mark-
up on H.R. 542, the ‘‘Supporting Research and Develop-
ment for First Responders Act’’; H.R. 1158, the ‘‘DHS
Cyber Incident Response Team Act’’; H.R. 2083, the
‘‘Homeland Procurement Reform Act’’; H.R. 2383, the
‘‘Secure Communities and Safe Schools Act’’; H.R. 2476,
the ‘‘Securing American Non-Profit Organizations
Against Terrorism Act’’; H.R. 2539, the ‘‘Strengthening
Local Transportation Security Capabilities Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2589, the ‘‘Unifying DHS Intelligence Enterprise
Act’’; H.R. 2590, the ‘‘DHS Overseas Personnel Enhance-
ment Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2609, the ‘‘DHS Acquisition
Review Board Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 2621, the ‘‘Home-
land Security Assessment of Terrorists’ Use of Ghost
Guns Act’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Executive Privilege and Congressional Oversight’’,
10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘U.S. Department of the Interior Budget and
Policy Priorities for FY 2020’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Impacts of Cli-
mate Change on Public Lands Recreation’’, 2 p.m., 1334
Longworth.
Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, hear-
ing on H.R. 2532, the ‘‘Tribal Heritage and Grizzly Bear
Protection Act’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D535
May 14, 2019
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘DOD Inspector General Report on Ex-
cess Profits by TransDigm Group, Inc.’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties,
hearing entitled ‘‘Confronting White Supremacy (Part I):
The Consequences of Inaction’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘Advancing the Next Gen-
eration of Solar and Wind Energy Technologies’’, 10
a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Member Day Hearing: Committee on Small
Business’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Aviation, hearing entitled ‘‘Status of the
Boeing 737 MAX’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Mid-Se-
mester School Closures Impact on Student Veterans’’, 10
a.m., HVC–210.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year
2020 Department of Veterans Affairs Budget Request for
the Veterans Health Administration’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Economic and Health Consequences of Cli-
mate Change’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D536 May 14, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, May 15
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Kenneth Kiyul Lee, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, post-cloture.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, May 15
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R. 312—
Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffirmation
Act (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E584
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E587, E590
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E586, E588, E591
Blunt Rochester, Lisa, Del., E583
Bonamici, Suzanne, Ore., E584
Boyle, Brendan F., Pa., E588
Cheney, Liz, Wyo., E587
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E583
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E590
Emmer, Tom, Minn., E588
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E589
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E591
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E585, E588
Lee, Susie, Nev., E585
Lieu, Ted, Calif., E586
Lowey, Nita M., N.Y., E587
Matsui, Doris O., Calif., E592
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E586, E590
O’Halleran, Tom, Ariz., E589
Olson, Pete, Tex., E585
Pascrell, Bill, Jr., N.J., E587
Price, David E., N.C., E593
Rice, Tom, N.C., E587
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E593
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E589
Rooney, Francis, Fla., E591, E591
Smith, Adam, Wash., E585, E587, E588, E589, E592
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E586
Taylor, Van, Tex., E584
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E592
Trahan, Lori, Mass., E592
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E583, E584
Waltz, Michael, Fla., E585
Zeldin, Lee M., N.Y., E591
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D14MY9.REC D14MYPT1
