Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H5915
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 17, 2019 No. 120
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CUELLAR).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
July 17, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable HENRY
CUELLAR to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
ADVANCE TO IMPEACHMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise, a proud American. But
I am especially proud, Mr. Speaker, of
this House of Representatives because,
yesterday, this House engaged in the
first part of a bipartisan—bipartisan—
effort.
It was bipartisan yesterday, but it is
a bifurcated effort as well. Bifurcated
because, yesterday, this House voted
with a vote of 244 to condemn the
President. Yesterday’s vote was to con-
demn, the first part of the bifurcated
process. Today’s vote is to determine
whether or not we will punish the
President.
The effort yesterday was wonderful. I
supported it. But it does not punish the
President. It does not fine him. He will
remain in office.
Today, we will deal with the question
of what his punishment should be.
Today, between 4 and 5, somewhere in
there, there will be Articles of Im-
peachment voted on. This will be the
opportunity for us to go on record let-
ting the world know where we stand.
If we vote to table, we are voting not
to advance impeachment. If we vote to
send it to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, we are voting not to advance im-
peachment.
I will not vote to table. I will not
vote to send it to the Committee on
the Judiciary. I will want to move for-
ward so that we can move to vote to
impeach.
This President has committed im-
peachable offenses. Yesterday, we con-
demned him for them. Today is our op-
portunity to punish him for them.
And for those who might say, ‘‘Well,
if you do this, there may be some peo-
ple who won’t like you,’’ well, there are
times when you have to do that which
is neither safe nor politic nor popular.
You have to do it because it is right.
But I would also say this: If we voted
yesterday to condemn him, those who
are not going to like you are not going
to like you any more today when you
vote to impeach than they will if you
vote not to impeach. They are still
going to be where they were when you
decided that you were not going to sup-
port what the President has been doing
since he has been in office.
Finally this, Mr. Speaker. I love my
country. It means something to me to
be a part of the fiber and fabric of this
country. And because I love it, I will
not allow anyone to be above the law.
The President has been above the law
some 91 days since the Mueller report
was presented—some 91 days. I think
that it is time for us to send the Presi-
dent a clear message that he is not
above the law. I think it is time for us
to impeach.
I also believe that this, and under-
stand, what we are doing today with
impeachment, does not impact the
Mueller report. It does not impact
what the Committee on the Judiciary
is doing or any other committee inves-
tigating obstruction. Obstruction has
nothing to do with what we will vote
on today. This is about what the Presi-
dent has done.
You cannot incite people to harm
other people with your words. You
can’t yell, ‘‘Fire,’’ in a crowded the-
ater.
The President has committed an im-
peachable offense, and we ought to
take it up. He ought to be impeached.
I will vote to advance to impeach-
ment, and I pray that this President
will be impeached today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
IMMIGRATION CRISIS REQUIRES
IMMIGRATION REFORM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, our country is seeing unprece-
dented numbers of illegal aliens at-
tempting to circumvent U.S. immigra-
tion and asylum laws at our southern
border.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity reported that 104,344 arrests oc-
curred last month, making 4 straight
months of arrests totaling over 100,000.
That is the equivalent to the entire
population of Watauga County in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.000 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5916 July 17, 2019
North Carolina’s Fifth District being
detained at our southern border every 2
weeks.
Our Border Patrol officers, aid work-
ers, and National Guard units have
been overwhelmed performing the vital
and often thankless work upholding
the rule of law to keep our country
safe. They deserve the support of this
body, and so do those who have legiti-
mate asylum petitions and humani-
tarian needs.
As we know, many in this recent mi-
grant influx include women with chil-
dren who want the life of opportunity
that this country and our freedoms af-
ford. Caring for children and families
at our southern border need not be a
partisan issue.
Last month, House Republicans de-
livered $4.6 billion to help manage the
humanitarian crisis and strengthen
border security. While this funding is
necessary to address the border crisis,
more needs to be done to modify the
law and streamline asylum regulations.
Rather than pivot to political pan-
dering and policy extremes like open
borders, we need to recognize the com-
plex failures of our current system and
address them head-on. That is why I
am proud to cosponsor the Fix the Im-
migration Loopholes Act. This bill up-
dates immigration law to efficiently
process real asylum claims and safely
return children to their countries of or-
igin. It is past time that we debate it
on the House floor.
I call on Speaker PELOSI to continue
our progress addressing the border cri-
sis by bringing up bipartisan legisla-
tion for comprehensive immigration
reform. The immigration crisis our
country is facing has strained our
country’s border security and customs
enforcement protections to the break-
ing point. Letting this crisis continue
is not an option.
f
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
‘‘APOLLO 11’’ MOON LANDING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) for 5 minutes.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
as chairwoman of the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, it is
an honor to stand before you today to
celebrate the 50th anniversary of Apollo
11.
On the morning of July 16, 1969, Neil
Armstrong, Michael Collins, and Buzz
Aldrin lifted off from NASA’s Cape
Kennedy. That day, millions watched
in awe as NASA launched Apollo 11’s
Saturn V rocket and began the long
journey to accomplish the goals set by
President Kennedy less than 10 years
earlier to land a man on the Moon be-
fore the end of the decade.
As President Kennedy said in his
speech at Rice University in September
1962: ‘‘We choose to go to the Moon in
this decade and do the other things,
not because they are easy, but because
they are hard.’’
There is no better explanation that
captures the American spirit. We
choose to take giant leaps. We choose
to know the unknown. We choose to
lead into the future.
On July 20, 1960, just 4 days after the
launch, the world listened and watched
as the first steps were taken on the
Moon. Again, hundreds of millions of
people across the world watched as his-
tory was made.
Five times more, NASA astronauts
landed on the Moon and returned home
safely. President Kennedy’s promise
that our great democracy could
achieve these hard things became a re-
ality.
As we watched those things in July
50 years ago, dreams began to form.
Every person watching the success of
the Apollo program, young and old, no
matter their background, was filled
with inspiration.
Some youngsters could say to them-
selves, ‘‘I will be an astronaut,’’ or, ‘‘I
will be a scientist.’’ As they looked up
to the Moon, they pictured themselves
up there amongst those American he-
roes an unimaginable distance away.
This impact has its greatest effect on
our young people. We must always re-
member that inspiration when we set
out to accomplish our greatest goals,
the youth inspiration. The world’s ris-
ing generations are watching, always
setting their eyes on the sky and the
stars. Young girls and young boys from
all backgrounds thrive off the visions
that we have now and imagine them-
selves becoming a part of it when they
can.
We must meet this great responsi-
bility to the following generations by
providing opportunities for them to do
great things with the challenge we face
today. As my predecessor, chairman of
the then-Committee of Science and As-
tronautics, Congressman George P.
Miller said after the Apollo 11 crew
splashed down safely in the Pacific
Ocean:
Those of us who are privileged to live
today will pass this on to our children and
our grandchildren, and they will, in turn,
brag about the fact that we were there. The
flight of Apollo 11 is perhaps the greatest
secular achievement that the world has ever
seen.
This achievement was made possible
by the unified efforts of nearly a half
million men and women, scientists and
engineers, technicians and craftsmen,
and the support of the American people
and their government. The United
States discovery and exploration enter-
prise is unmatched.
Just as we once set our sights to be
the first to land on the Moon, let us
bring that same sense of commitment
to meeting other challenges facing our
Nation.
f
FOR THE BENEFIT OF ALL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, this week America celebrates the
50th anniversary of one of mankind’s—
and America’s—greatest achievements:
walking on the surface of the Moon.
Although then only a child, I well re-
member the earth shake and the dishes
in our kitchen cabinets rattle as the
Saturn V engines were tested nearby.
Even now, 50 years after the Moon
landing, I get chills remembering when
Apollo astronauts landed and later
planted the American flag on the
Moon’s surface.
It was American ingenuity, boldness,
technical prowess, and economic might
that made this historic achievement
possible.
I am proud to say the legacy of the
Apollo 11 Moon landing lives on in the
Tennessee Valley of Alabama that I
represent. Some history is in order:
The Tennessee Valley’s Marshall
Space Flight Center is the birthplace
of America’s space program. Americans
generally, and Alabamians in par-
ticular, designed and engineered the
Saturn V rocket that launched the his-
toric Apollo 11 and took American as-
tronauts to the Moon.
I will never forget the flames and the
roar as our Saturn V rocket was
launched and carried the Apollo 11 crew
in vehicles to the Moon. I remember
with tremendous pride Neil Arm-
strong’s words as he set foot on the
Moon: ‘‘That’s one small step for man,
one giant leap for mankind.’’
That giant leap meant to benefit all
mankind is a prime example of Amer-
ican exceptionalism and helped cement
America’s status as the best, most
powerful and most influential nation in
world history.
When Neil Armstrong and Buzz
Aldrin planted America’s flag on the
Moon surface on July 20, 1969, there
was no doubt that America’s space pro-
gram had passed the Russians and be-
come the preeminent leader in space
exploration, a position America main-
tains today.
This week, America not only reflects
on the miraculous achievements of the
Apollo 11 mission, but we also honor
those who played a critical role in its
ultimate success. The Tennessee Valley
is immensely proud of our pivotal role
in landing a man on the Moon and,
equally importantly, returning them
alive to Earth.
Reflecting our pride in America’s
achievement, there are two—that is,
two—Saturn V rockets displayed at the
United States Space and Rocket Center
in Huntsville, Alabama.
b 1015
These Saturn V displays help inspire
the next generation to reach for the
stars and achieve what now may be
thought impossible.
While it is important to remember
the historic achievements of the Apollo
missions, it is also important to honor
those who sacrificed their lives in the
effort to achieve American greatness.
In that vein, Huntsville has named
schools after Apollo Command Pilot
Virgil ‘‘Gus’’ Grissom, Senior Pilot Ed
White, and Pilot Roger Chaffee, each of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.002 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5917
July 17, 2019
whom died in a capsule fire during an
Apollo 1 ground test.
After the Moon landing and return of
Apollo 11 astronauts Buzz Aldrin, Neil
Armstrong, and Michael Collins to
Earth on July 24, 1969, Huntsville’s
streets were awash with revelers.
German rocket scientist Wernher von
Braun said on the Huntsville court-
house steps that day: ‘‘My friends,
there was dancing here in the streets of
Huntsville when our first satellite or-
bited the Earth, and there was dancing
again when the first Americans landed
on the Moon. I’d like to ask you: Don’t
hang up your dancing slippers.’’
Von Braun’s words remind us that
mankind’s greatest achievements are
yet to come, that America will con-
tinue to accomplish the unimaginable
in space for the benefit of all human-
ity.
As we reach for the stars, I have con-
fidence that the Tennessee Valley,
Marshall Space Flight Center, and
Huntsville, where we say, ‘‘The sky is
not the limit,’’ will be instrumental in
carrying American astronauts back to
the Moon, to Mars, and beyond.
f
HONORING DEPUTY WILLIAM
KIMBRO
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM) for 5
minutes.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Chair, I rise
today to honor the valiant actions of
Deputy William Kimbro of the Berke-
ley County Sheriff’s Office.
On June 11, Deputy Kimbro pulled
over a speeding vehicle to find that 12-
day-old Riley had stopped breathing.
She needed immediate help, so without
hesitation, Deputy Kimbro adminis-
tered lifesaving care to this newborn
until the first responders could arrive
on the scene.
Deputy Kimbro served our Nation in
the Navy for 21 years before joining the
Berkeley County Sheriff’s Office in
2013. A school resource officer on sum-
mer break, patrolling the road is not
Deputy Kimbro’s primary duty, but he
acted without hesitation. For his brav-
ery and composure, he earned Berkeley
County’s Life-Saving Medal.
He is a husband and father of two
children. Deputy Kimbro is an all-
around hero, and we are lucky to have
him looking after us in the
Lowcountry. He, alongside all first re-
sponders, keep the Lowcountry and
this Nation a safer and better place.
Deputy Kimbro should take a bow.
We are extremely proud of him.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH
ANNIVERSARY OF ‘‘APOLLO 11’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today, as a number
of my colleagues have, to recognize
that this Saturday, July 20, is the 50th
anniversary of the Apollo 11 Moon land-
ing.
Fifty years ago, Neil Armstrong be-
came the first human to set foot on the
surface of the Moon and declared the
moment ‘‘one small step for man, one
giant leap for mankind.’’
Along with Buzz Aldrin and Michael
Collins, he launched from the Kennedy
Space Center in Florida and embarked
on a journey that would change the
course of human history forever.
At the age of 8, I can remember
watching the coverage of the landing
from my family living room, where we
had moved the dining room table to eat
dinner and watch this historic occa-
sion. I remember the landing that oc-
curred at 4:18 p.m. Eastern Standard
Time on July 20. Along with many
other children of that time across the
country, I was filled with a sense of
awe and wonder.
This consequential moment was
sparked years before in 1961 when
President Kennedy stood before Con-
gress and set forth an ambitious goal of
putting a man on the Moon before the
decade’s end, long before, as he ac-
knowledged, the materials had been
yet invented to make that a reality.
His bold vision became a reality on
July 20, 1969. This achievement would
not have been possible without Amer-
ican innovation and work ethic, paired
with the support of the public.
Now, we are tasked with safely send-
ing the first woman and another man
to the south pole of the Moon, where
no human has traveled.
This mission, called Artemis, will
send astronauts back to the Moon by
2024, allowing us to establish a perma-
nent presence on the Moon by 2028.
None of this can be achieved without
a strong public-private partnership be-
tween NASA and the commercial in-
dustry and the strong support of the
American people.
NASA works with companies, both
large and small, from across the 50
States to prepare for the Artemis mis-
sion, as well as many other projects
NASA conducts in space.
In Pennsylvania’s 15th Congressional
District, there are several local busi-
nesses working with NASA. Just re-
cently, NASA announced a contract for
infrastructure support service from the
H.F. Lenz Company in Johnstown to
provide their engineering expertise.
In Bellefonte, Actuated Medical is
working with NASA on additive manu-
facturing methods and custom medical
devices.
Public-private partnerships like
these will fuel the next generation of
exploration.
Space is more than just a place of
academic study, however. It is instru-
mental to our national security, dis-
covers new technologies that have ev-
eryday applications, and encourages us
to push the boundaries of what is pos-
sible.
Mr. Speaker, the legacy of the Apollo
11 Moon landing is forever enshrined in
the hearts and the minds of Americans
who witnessed the moment 50 years
ago this week. We must reignite our
curiosity for space exploration as we
prepare to return to the Moon and seek
further horizons in the decades to
come.
f
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE) for 5 minutes.
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
urge my colleagues to vote for the
Raise the Minimum Wage Act.
In my district of Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, Milwaukeeans are stuck at the
Federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour
set over a decade ago. These workers
struggle to support themselves and
their families with their meager wages.
However hard they try, at $7.25 an
hour, they are working themselves into
poverty, since $15,000 a year is below
the Federal poverty level.
What do these workers do? They are
forced to juggle multiple jobs and con-
tend with long and unpredictable
hours. Meanwhile, congressional inac-
tion on minimum wage workers’ pay-
checks continues to erode this basic
labor standard.
This inaction has contributed to out-
of-control economic inequality and the
decline of the middle class. Hard-
working Americans working at the
minimum wage are, indeed, working
below the poverty level. Not only are
they working below the poverty level,
but they are supplying cheap labor to
wealthy corporations that have bene-
fited from our tax policy.
It also requires you, hardworking
taxpayers, to subsidize those corpora-
tions. Why? Because these workers
working 40 hours a week still qualify
for public benefits like food stamps and
Medicaid because those employers
don’t provide those benefits.
I personally know the hardships of
surviving on less than a living wage.
That is why I have fought throughout
my entire career in public service to
lift America’s vulnerable workers, not
just to help them make ends meet but
to empower them and to help them
reach their ambitions.
I am so proud that I protested for fair
wages alongside fellow Milwaukeeans
in 2014 as part of the national Fight for
$15 campaign. I was arrested for par-
ticipating in the fight for $15 an hour
in that protest, and I am grateful for
the courage demonstrated by the pro-
testers nationwide who joined the
Fight for $15.
I thank you for the personal risks
you have taken. We are voting on the
Raise the Minimum Wage Act because
of the momentum that you have cre-
ated.
Raising the minimum wage will have
countless benefits. To name a few, it
will lift 40 million workers out of pov-
erty, boost the economy, and spread
the benefits of economic growth that
President Trump has hoarded for the
wealthy few.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.005 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5918 July 17, 2019
Raising the national minimum wage
is well overdue, and I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the Raise the
Wage Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair and not to a per-
ceived viewing audience.
f
HONORING THE LEGACY OF THE
‘‘APOLLO 11’’ MISSION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, 50
years ago, on July 20, 1969, people
across the country and around the
world watched in eager anticipation as
Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed
on the Moon.
This historic event ended the space
race and brought American innovation,
determination, and leadership to the
forefront of the global stage.
This was American exceptionalism at
its best. My brother, sister, and I never
missed an Apollo liftoff. We all became
very familiar with that countdown:
Ten, 9, 8—ignition sequence—6, 5—fire the
retro-rockets—3, 2, 1. Liftoff. We have liftoff.
The rocket has cleared the tower.
We watched in amazement as we sat
in front of that little RCA black-and-
white TV. It was like the whole room
was shaking. We would sit and watch
the TV set until we saw the rocket fi-
nally leave all the way out of sight.
Apollo 11 was a 36-story-high rocket.
It started its 8-day, 953,000-mile jour-
ney to the Moon and back.
We all had toy rockets back in the
day, and we would repeat that liftoff
sequence over and over. My brother
and I would climb our garage and
launch our toy rockets.
In Cub Scouts, we built rockets. In
Boy Scouts, we built rockets. In our
high school physics classes, we built
rockets. We had contests to see who
could fly their rockets the highest and
the farthest.
I have no idea how many young boys
and girls were inspired to go into
science because of the joy of watching
rockets being launched to the Moon.
That Apollo jargon took over our
daily lives. Our teachers would say
things like, ‘‘Lunch is T minus 30 min-
utes.’’ Or at the end of a tough test,
they would say, ‘‘Mission accom-
plished.’’
As we celebrate this historic event, I
think back to all the times I took my
children to the Cosmosphere in Hutch-
inson, Kansas, which displays one of
the Moon rocks brought back by the
Apollo 11 mission. This world-class mu-
seum and science center, number one of
its kind, showcases American innova-
tion in space and aeronautics and pro-
vides interactive opportunities to en-
gage with historic events such as the
Moon landing.
In fact, they currently have a trav-
eling exhibit called ‘‘Apollo Redux,’’
which allows visitors to sit in an ac-
tual mission control console from the
Johnson Space Center where the Apollo
missions were coordinated.
It amazes me to think of all the ad-
vancements that have been made pos-
sible as a result of these Apollo mis-
sions. Aerospace and manufacturing
revolutions have dramatically changed
the way we build and fly airplanes. Re-
search conducted by NASA has helped
us to better understand our solar sys-
tem, as well as our universe.
In fact, Astronaut Nick Hague of
Hoxie, Kansas, in my district, is cur-
rently conducting research on the
International Space Station.
We are proud of Nick, who will keep
doing a great job for America.
As a member of the House Science,
Space, and Technology Committee, I
am proud to join my colleagues here
today in honoring the 50th anniversary
of the Apollo 11 landing and its legacy
that we continue to build upon today.
f
END HUNGER NOW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, a few
weeks ago, the House Agriculture Sub-
committee on Nutrition, Oversight,
and Department Operations hosted a
hearing that discussed the devastating
impacts of President Trump’s proposed
cuts to broad-based categorical eligi-
bility.
Today, I would like to share the sto-
ries of a few of my constituents who
have benefited from the streamlined
process that broad-based categorical
eligibility provides hungry families in
accessing food benefits.
In my hometown of Worcester, Mas-
sachusetts, a single mother who is a
domestic violence survivor raising one
child works as a certified nursing as-
sistant and makes $1,819 per month be-
fore taxes or payroll deductions.
While this may sound like enough to
get by, her current income is barely
over 130 percent of the Federal poverty
level.
Even with an income this low, her
family only receives a $15 monthly
SNAP benefit. But because of broad-
based categorical eligibility, her child
is also able to receive free school
meals, and it helps her stay afloat as a
working mom.
b 1030
Then there is another Worcester-area
family of four, former refugees, with
two high school aged children. The
mother and father, who both work in
shipping and packaging, make $15.35 an
hour. While both parents work as many
hours as they can, their income fluc-
tuates depending on how many shifts
they are assigned each week.
Many months they make under 130
percent of the Federal poverty level.
But during other months, when they
get extra shifts, it puts them slightly
higher, over 130 percent. This month
they received $110 in SNAP; but if it
were up to the Trump administration,
just one more shift could threaten the
entire family’s access to SNAP and
their children’s access to free school
meals.
Mr. Speaker, broad-based categorical
eligibility is not a black-and-white
issue. President Trump shouldn’t be
cutting off people’s benefits just as
they are getting on their feet.
Last year, we worked hard to come
up with a bipartisan farm bill and, de-
spite some discussions on this issue,
Congress agreed then, and in 2014, to
allow States to maintain their flexi-
bility in accommodating low-income
households. In my home State of Mas-
sachusetts, where the cost of living is
relatively high, compared to the rest of
the country, that flexibility is crucial.
I would like to take a moment now
to highlight a forward-thinking part-
nership to address hunger among col-
lege students in Gardner, Massachu-
setts. I find the work of organizations
that address food insecurity to be espe-
cially important during times like
these.
I have mentioned before that the av-
erage SNAP benefit is around $1.40 per
person per meal. You can’t even buy a
cup of coffee for that, much less feed an
entire family. For those experiencing
hunger, food pantries often serve as the
safety net when SNAP just isn’t
enough.
In my district, for example, Worces-
ter County Food Bank provides do-
nated food to a network of 118 partner
agencies, including food pantries, com-
munity meal programs, and shelters.
Its mission is to engage, educate, and
lead Worcester County in creating a
hunger-free community. Last year,
they served 81,000 neighbors.
Recently, I visited one of the food
bank’s partners, the Mount Wachusett
Community College’s Food for Thought
Campus Pantry, one of the first college
food pantries to partner with the
Worcester County Food Bank in ad-
dressing food insecurity on local col-
lege campuses.
Research shows that community col-
lege students experience higher food
insecurity than the rest of the popu-
lation. A recent study found that two
out of three community college stu-
dents are food insecure.
The Food for Thought Campus Pan-
try was created in October of 2017 for
students and by students in response to
food insecurity among community col-
lege students, which is becoming an in-
creasing threat to student success.
Since the Food for Thought Pantry
opened its doors in October 2017, 210
students have registered for food as-
sistance, and 7,238 pounds of food, and
15,807 total items were distributed.
Without organizations like the
Worcester County Food Bank and
Mount Wachusett’s Food for Thought
Food Pantry, students and families
would not have consistent access to the
food that they need. These programs
and organizations are an irreplaceable
key to solving our Nation’s hunger cri-
sis, but they can’t bear all of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.006 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5919
July 17, 2019
weight if the Trump administration
has its way and cuts millions off of
SNAP.
That is why I encourage my col-
leagues in the House and Senate to join
me and fight every single attempt this
administration makes to wage war on
people who are hungry. Working to-
gether is the only way we are going to
be able to end hunger now.
f
‘‘APOLLO 11’’ COMMEMORATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BABIN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, 50 years
ago, America achieved the greatest
technological accomplishment in
human history.
Three men, Neil Armstrong, Michael
Collins, and Buzz Aldrin, set off from
Cape Canaveral on a voyage that Presi-
dent Kennedy called ‘‘the most haz-
ardous, and dangerous, and greatest ad-
venture on which man has ever em-
barked.’’
Four days into their 8-day mission,
Neil and Buzz climbed down the ladder
of the lunar module and stood on the
surface of the Moon; the very first
human presence on a celestial body
other than Earth; a feat that, to this
day, no other country has equaled. And
we did it five more times.
Armstrong, Collins, and Aldrin could
not have accomplished this alone. Apol-
lo 11 was the culmination of the hard
work of more than 400,000 Americans
who, with limited experience, and com-
paratively primitive technology, com-
mitted themselves to accomplish this
task and completing President Ken-
nedy’s order of returning the astro-
nauts safely home.
I am so proud to represent Johnson
Space Center in Houston, Texas, and
the historic Mission Control of that
Apollo era.
On the wall of the House Science,
Space, and Technology Committee here
on Capitol Hill, where I serve as the
senior Republican on the Space and
Aeronautics Subcommittee, is written,
from the Bible, Proverbs 29:18, which
reads: ‘‘Where there is no vision, the
people perish.’’
The 50th anniversary of the first
Moon landing should serve as a re-
minder of what we, as a Nation, can ac-
complish when we do have a clear mis-
sion.
Six hundred million people from
around the world gathered around their
grainy television sets to watch those
first steps. What is amazing is that this
took place only 40 years after Lind-
bergh first flew across the Atlantic;
and only 65 years after two bicycle-
making brothers from Dayton, Ohio,
achieved powered flight in Kitty Hawk,
North Carolina.
The Apollo program built upon these
accomplishments and exponentially
pushed our technology forward; and we
are on the cusp of doing it again.
President Trump and Vice President
PENCE have ensured that we are, again,
pushing outward, and launching Amer-
ica back into its dominant role as the
global leader in space. We have our vi-
sion. This time, we head to the red
planet by way of the Moon, and this
time we stay.
NASA Administrator Bridenstine has
focused NASA on achieving these goals
with the Artemis program, Apollo’s sis-
ter, and I will continue to use my posi-
tion in Congress to advocate for the
support needed for NASA to accom-
plish this very worthwhile effort.
Mr. Speaker, as we commemorate the
50th anniversary of Apollo 11 this week,
I would like to thank all out there who
helped us get to the Moon, and all
those out there who will get us back to
the Moon; and thank them for their
tremendous contribution to our coun-
try.
I am anxiously looking forward to
the next small steps and giant leaps in
our space program.
f
‘‘APOLLO 11’’ CELEBRATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Oklahoma (Ms. KENDRA S. HORN) for 5
minutes.
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Mr. Speaker, this week, we celebrate
one of the most remarkable moments
in human history: The launch of the
Apollo 11 lunar mission, and the first
steps on the Moon by American astro-
nauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin.
American leadership, ingenuity, and
investment made this moment possible
50 years ago.
As the Space and Aeronautics Sub-
committee chairwoman, I am honored
to be joined by my colleagues today to
recognize this achievement and talk
about what it means, 50 years later. As
we commemorate this historic accom-
plishment, it is clear that we stand on
the shoulders of space pioneers, some
of whom are still with us today.
Apollo 11 and Armstrong’s first steps
on the lunar surface were the culmina-
tion of a focused, methodical buildup of
the developments, demonstrations, and
operational capabilities needed to
achieve the Moon landing.
The value of the Apollo program is
beyond measure. Its mission inspired
and continues to draw countless Amer-
icans into science, technology, engi-
neering and math. This program led to
significant technological advances and
products that changed the world as we
know it and benefit our lives today.
Fundamentally, the success of Apollo
contributed to our standing in the
world. Apollo taught us the value of
taking audacious, and yet intentional
risks.
I would like to focus, as well, for a
moment, on the mission that imme-
diately preceded the Moon landing,
Apollo 10. This mission, launched 2
months before, was launched to test all
of the components and procedures just
short of landing. Carrying the lunar
module, it came as close as 50,000 feet
from the lunar surface before returning
safely to Earth.
Retired Air Force General Thomas P.
Stafford, an Oklahoman, commanded
this essential mission that enabled us
to land on the Moon.
General Stafford was born in
Weatherford, Oklahoma, and received a
Bachelor of Science degree from the
United States Naval Academy in 1952,
graduating with honors. Commissioned
as a second lieutenant in the Air Force,
he completed advanced interceptor
training and served tours of duty flying
F–86Ds. He then graduated from the
U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School as the
outstanding graduate.
Throughout his career, Stafford flew
more than 100 different types of air-
craft as he pushed the boundaries of
achievement in air and space. Stafford
was selected as an astronaut in 1962
and, 3 years later, flew on Gemini 6 as
the first space rendezvous mission, fol-
lowed by Gemini 9.
Later, General Stafford commanded
the first international space flight mis-
sion, Apollo-Soyuz. This peaceful co-
operation between two Cold War rivals
was the first step in what has become a
sustained relationship between the
U.S., Russia, and our international
partners with the International Space
Station.
The last of the Apollo missions, its
lasting impacts, reminds us that even
in times of warfare and global distress,
that space exploration is a unifying
force of discovery, peace, cooperation,
and diplomacy.
Beyond all his accomplishments,
General Stafford has also become a
friend and mentor. To General Staf-
ford, and all of those who contributed
to the success of Apollo, you inspired a
generation and showed the world what
is possible when our Nation comes to-
gether to focus on an ambitious goal
and, in turn, change the world in both
foreseeable and unforeseeable ways.
f
BUILDING ON THE APOLLO
LEGACY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. POSEY) for 5 minutes.
Mr. POSEY. Mr. Speaker, it is a
pleasure to be here today to speak
about the 50th anniversary of Apollo 11.
I can remember sitting in class with
the teacher discussing President John
F. Kennedy’s speech about going to the
Moon at Rice University in 1961, when
he committed this country to putting a
man on the Moon and bringing him
safely back to Earth within the decade.
He said: Great nations do things, not
because they are easy, because they are
hard. And it certainly was hard.
I remember doing the math on my
fingers and saying, you know, I am
going to be old enough to be involved
in that program. And my goal became
to have my fingerprints on the rocket
that took the first man to the Moon.
To make a long story short, 5 years
later I was an inspector working on the
third stage of the Apollo rocket, one of
the highlights of my life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.008 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5920 July 17, 2019
Americans were united in those days
in their zeal for space; the Apollo Moon
landing being the greatest techno-
logical advancement in the history of
mankind. Some writers described those
times as a Camelot era, where people
respected their President, even if they
didn’t vote for them. Not until 9/11 had
I seen Americans as united as they
were around the Apollo program.
Space, of course, is important to our
national security. It is important to
our economic prosperity. It is impor-
tant to our technological advancement.
I ask people how often they benefit
from space, and the response usually
averages, 6 percent say they benefit
from space once a year; 4 percent say
they benefit from space once a month;
and only 2 percent say they benefit
from space once a week. And we won’t
even go to once a day.
I guess those people have roosters in
the backyard that give them their
weather reports. They don’t pay any
attention to the images we have from
the satellites. I guess they don’t use
cell phones, or use credit cards, or even
make cash transactions, because those
are all satellite-linked.
Ultimately, space is important to us
for the ultimate survival of our species.
Neil deGrasse Tyson lectured our
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee several years ago on the bene-
fits of space. And while he was here, he
gave a lecture for staff and Members
over at the Jefferson Building at the
Library of Congress; very well-attended
and well-taken.
During his presentation, he men-
tioned that space is the only thing
Congress really spends money on to
truly benefit the next generation, and I
believe that. I believe those are trees
that we plant without the expectation
of being around to enjoy all the shade.
I want to thank my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle on the Science,
Space, and Technology Committee for
helping keep space a bipartisan issue. I
hope we can build on the legacy of
Apollo 11 and that, some day, our chil-
dren and their children can come to-
gether and enjoy positive achievements
for their generation and generations to
follow.
f
b 1045
COMMEMORATING THE 50TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE ‘‘APOLLO 11’’
MOON LANDING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. MCADAMS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Speaker, in the
lead-up to the Apollo 11 Moon landing’s
50th anniversary, people across our
country, including many from my
State, Utah, have been sharing their
memories of this historic event and its
inspiration in their lives. Some of the
lucky ones played a role in helping the
space program reach this historic
achievement.
Brigham Young University graduate
Charlie Bunker remembers watching
from a common room of a boarding-
house in downtown Denver. Charlie’s
companion was an Amish gentleman
who turned to him and asked if he
thought the astronauts were really
going to land on the Moon. Charlie
said, yes, he was sure, because he
worked at a place where they made the
rockets that helped to get them there.
Charlie was a physicist who remem-
bers, as a 19-year-old, President John
F. Kennedy issue his challenge to
America to go to the Moon. And after
graduating from college and getting
married, Charlie landed a job with the
Hughes Corporation in Los Angeles for
a starting salary of $8,000 a year. He
worked on Surveyor, a NASA-funded
program that sent unmanned rockets
to the Moon. That work led to being
hired by Martin Marietta, a Denver-
based aerospace company.
Charlie and his family were living
temporarily in the boardinghouse on
the historymaking night of the Moon
landing. Charlie worked for Martin
Marietta for nearly 40 years, including
the last few years in Utah.
When the Deseret News asked readers
to answer whether they remembered
where they were on July 20, 1969, they
received hundreds of responses. Several
Utahns who were serving in the mili-
tary wrote in, and one wrote: ‘‘I was re-
turning from a night mission over the
Ho Chi Min trail in Laos as a pilot of
a B–57. I remember it was a clear night
with a full Moon, and my navigator
and I were listening to the radio broad-
cast on Armed Forces radio at 30,000
feet. Later, my wife and I had Neil
Armstrong to dinner in Paris while I
was Air Attache to France.’’
Another wrote: ‘‘I was at building No.
9 Manned Spacecraft Center, now
called the Johnson Spacecraft Center,
in Houston. NASA set up big TV
screens and chairs for NASA employees
and their friends. I remember the pride
and accomplishment of the mission and
celebrations from NASA engineers and
contractors. I remember it like it was
yesterday.’’
Apollo 11 and the Moon landing was a
jewel in NASA’s crown at the time. It
set the foundation for many future
American achievements in space.
Sixteen years later, Utah Senator
Jake Garn became the first sitting
Member of Congress to fly in space
when he flew aboard the space shuttle
Discovery as a payload specialist in
1985.
The closest I have gotten to the
Moon—to date, anyway—is when, as
the mayor of Salt Lake County, I
placed the Clark Planetarium Moon
rock into the Zions Bank vault for
safekeeping. The planetarium was un-
dergoing renovation, and we trans-
ferred our precious Moon rock under
the watchful eye of law enforcement to
its secure and temporary home.
Our planetarium is one of many
across the country that benefits from
Apollo’s legacy and brings science edu-
cation to life for students in Utah.
Those students will soon hopefully be-
come the engineers, the mathemati-
cians, and the explorers who will chart
the next five decades of space research
and space travel.
Here in Congress, I am proud to sit
on the Science, Space, and Technology
Committee, where we continue our
forebearers’ legacy of bipartisan in-
vestment in our Nation’s space pro-
gram. Apollo inspired a generation of
scientists and Americans, and some
day soon, my four children may be-
come space travelers themselves when
space tourism becomes a reality. They
will stand on the shoulders of the thou-
sands of dedicated men and women who
dreamed the impossible dream and
then made it a reality.
f
THE PUSH FOR SPACE IS
ABSOLUTELY CRITICAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. WALTZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. WALTZ. Mr. Speaker, 50 years
ago this week, a group of astronauts
launched from Kennedy Space Center
in Merritt Island, Florida, embarking
on a journey of discovery into unchart-
ered territory.
July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong took
one small step for man and one giant
leap for mankind on the surface of the
Moon. Armstrong and fellow astronaut
Buzz Aldrin spent 21⁄2 hours collecting
samples and taking photographs. Criti-
cally and importantly, they left behind
an American flag and some of the most
famous footprints in history, sealing
America’s place as the leader of the
space renaissance in the international
space race.
Our journey to outer space was born
out of a desire to discover, but that
wasn’t the only reason we went to the
Moon. We also went to the Moon to
compete with Russia, specifically re-
garding protecting our Nation’s secu-
rity. That competition still exists
today, but it is even more serious now
because of our economic and our mili-
tary dependency on space and because,
in addition to Russia, we now have
China explicitly stating its intent to
surpass America as the leader in space.
Russia and China have made it clear
their intention is not just to explore
space, but to prepare themselves for
conflict. Russia and China both know
that they will never be able to take us
on tank to tank, carrier to carrier,
plane to plane, so they have decided in
their national security strategy to
take us out in space if we ever have to
come to blows.
This is why I fully support the cre-
ation of the space force. This is why
space has now been declared a
warfighting domain. And if we don’t
prepare ourselves, our very way of life
will be at significant risk.
Our banking, our financial institu-
tions, our global logistics, our tele-
communications systems all depend on
space. So the 21st century space race is
on, and America must lead, and this is
why the push for space resources and
funding today is absolutely critical.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.010 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5921
July 17, 2019
As a member of the House Armed
Services Committee and the Science,
Space, and Technology Committee, I
see how national security and space
intersect every day. And as a Flo-
ridian, space is something that is abso-
lutely in my DNA.
It is from, of course, Florida’s Ken-
nedy Space Center that our astronauts
launched to the Moon, and I know that
Florida will be a key player when we
go back to the Moon once more in 2024
and as NASA, the U.S. military, and
American industry work together to
maintain American leadership in
space. In my district in northeast Flor-
ida, we are very fortunate to have com-
panies that once again will assemble
the lunar landers to help NASA get
back to the Moon.
So looking back on this historic
Moon landing 50 years later, I hope we
will all remember what an incredible
moment this was for our country. Our
American values and American inge-
nuity have taken us to new worlds not
just on Earth, but beyond. It is an
honor to celebrate these accomplish-
ments here today, and it is absolutely
critical that we continue exploring and
we continue innovating.
But it is also equally critical that we
fully understand that our competitors
seek to supplant our leadership role in
space, and they are not in line with our
values. We cannot and will not allow
that to happen.
f
CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE LAUNCH OF THE
‘‘APOLLO 11’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, this
week we celebrate the 50th anniversary
of the launch of Apollo 11, the space-
craft that sent Americans to the Moon.
On September 12, 1962, before a crowd
of 40,000 spectators at Rice University
in Houston, President John F. Kennedy
announced the ambitious goal of send-
ing Americans to the Moon before the
end of the decade.
On July 20, 1969, we got there. Neil
Armstrong became the first human to
set foot on the surface of the Moon,
and 19 minutes later Buzz Aldrin be-
came the second.
More than 600 million people around
the world watched Armstrong take his
first step live on television. The first
words they heard on the Moon were
‘‘Houston, Tranquility Base here. The
Eagle has landed,’’ followed by the ob-
servation, ‘‘That’s one small step for
man, one giant leap for mankind.’’
As a native Houstonian and the Rep-
resentative of Texas’ Seventh Congres-
sional District, these historic words
are seared in my mind. The Apollo 11
mission was more than just an amazing
technological advancement, it brought
Americans from all backgrounds and
beliefs together toward a common goal
and a common purpose. It made people
a part of something bigger than them-
selves, perhaps bigger than they had
ever imagined.
More than 400,000 Americans worked
to make the Apollo 11 mission a suc-
cess, many of them based at the John-
son Space Center in Houston. From the
support crew to the flight directors at
mission control, to the space suit de-
signers, to the human computers, engi-
neers, and scientists who designed and
built the hardware and software, to the
custodial staff who worked in the
building to make sure that they had a
place to work, and to every small job
in between, Apollo 11 was the result of
a historic collaboration across our
country.
The resounding success of the Apollo
program served to captivate the
world’s attention and cemented Amer-
ica’s status as a leader in scientific dis-
covery and technological innovation,
and it taught us what we as Americans
can do, what we can accomplish when
we work together toward a common
goal. What we learned from this mis-
sion is that, when we do that, even the
sky is not the limit.
f
AMERICA MUST REMAIN THE
LEADER IN SPACE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. WEBER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to commemorate the 50th
anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission.
In his famous 1961 speech at Rice
University in Houston, Texas, Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy challenged the
Nation to put a man on the Moon by
the end of the decade. President Ken-
nedy spoke these now famous words:
‘‘We choose to go to the Moon in this
decade and do other things, not be-
cause they are easy, but because they
are hard.’’
President Kennedy understood the
importance of American leadership in
space. He added: ‘‘Whether it will be-
come a force for good or ill depends on
man, and only if the United States oc-
cupies a position of preeminence can
we help decide whether this new ocean
will be a sea of peace or a new, terri-
fying theater of war.’’
Military professionals will tell you
that whoever occupies the high ground
in a conflict has the upper hand. Folks,
there is no higher ground than space.
America must remain the leader in
space. It is just that simple.
In 1969, the crew of Apollo 11 fulfilled
that very mission to put a man on the
Moon. Today, we honor not only the as-
tronauts Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin,
and Michael Collins, but all of the
great NASA men and women who
worked tirelessly to make the Apollo 11
mission a success.
We have learned about the hidden fig-
ures of the Apollo program, those be-
hind the scenes. Here are some more.
At the height of the Apollo program,
according to one estimate, 1 in 50
Americans were working on some as-
pect of the program. This included
some 400,000-plus full-time employees.
The astronauts knew their lives de-
pended on these people, most of whom
they never knew nor would they ever
meet, that were performing difficult
tasks on a very demanding schedule.
Over 530 million people around the
globe watched the telecast of Arm-
strong’s first steps from 250,000 miles
away. Not only did Apollo 11 show the
world what America can achieve, but it
displayed a beautifully unique ability
of human space exploration, its capac-
ity to stimulate, to inspire, and to
cause people to reach deep inside to
find the very best they had to offer.
b 1100
American greatness is a compilation
of these things. On that day, we spread
our message of American greatness
around the globe.
Fifty years ago, the politics of a
volatile world order compelled us to
the challenge of space competition.
The world has changed, and in today’s
uncertainty, one thing remains cer-
tain: the importance of American pre-
eminence in space.
Now, we turn our focus to a new chal-
lenge. We will send Americans back to
the Moon’s surface by 2024, only this
time, to stay. It has been a long time
since man walked on the Moon. In 2024,
we will make history once again when
the first woman walks on the Moon.
With our great NASA’s lead, the pri-
vate and public sectors are coming to-
gether to accomplish this great and
very difficult task. Through their part-
nerships, American excellence is lever-
aged across the board. We are building
sustainable, reusable systems that will
not only take us to the Moon but leap-
frog us to Mars.
Our great NASA is bringing Demo-
crats and Republicans together in what
I call American togetherism.
Thank God for NASA.
f
CELEBRATING HIDDEN FIGURES
OF ‘‘APOLLO 11’’ MISSION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. WILSON) for 5 minutes.
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker,
50 years ago, the Apollo 11 mission sent
a crew of pioneering women on a jour-
ney of incredible significance. All were
astronauts.
Symbolically, it was a representation
that with enough hard work, dedica-
tion, and will, America could achieve
the seemingly impossible.
The mission left lasting imprints,
from the eternal footprints left on
Tranquility Base to the values en-
graved into an entire generation.
The Moon landing inspired all who
watched it to believe in the power of
innovation, dedication, and most espe-
cially, unwavering courage. But today,
I want to draw attention to some of the
unseen heroes of the Apollo 11 mission.
I will refer to them as the ‘‘hidden fig-
ures.’’
Ms. Katherine Johnson, Ms. Dorothy
Vaughan, and Ms. Mary Jackson have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.012 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5922 July 17, 2019
only recently been recognized for the
incredible work they put into the mis-
sion that defined generations, thanks
to the film ‘‘Hidden Figures.’’
Only Ms. Johnson is still alive today
to receive our overdue gratitude for
these women.
Before we began carrying calculators
in our pockets, Ms. Johnson, Ms.
Vaughan, and Ms. Jackson did manual
calculations of astronomical problems
using only pen and paper.
The stakes were incredibly high. The
working conditions were segregated
and tense. Yet, these women produced
work at a caliber high enough to send
men to the surface of the Moon.
That is what I call some Black girl
magic.
Ms. Johnson, Ms. Vaughan, and Ms.
Jackson each defied intense discrimi-
nation and overwhelming adversity.
Their lifetimes were metaphorical
Apollo missions: astronomically suc-
cessful despite all odds.
But they were hidden figures. We did
not know them.
I am proud to recognize them today
on the floor as women of distinction
with unrivaled talent. I am proud to
know that their contributions are fi-
nally being recognized.
On a very personal note, as a member
of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., I
am proud to call them my sisters.
Their legacy of Black female excel-
lence and newfound recognition will
undoubtedly inspire a generation of
young people to pursue STEM careers,
despite whatever odds may be against
them.
Black girls can learn about the Apollo
11 mission and know that there are he-
roes who look just like them. First-
generation college students, low-in-
come children, and children of color
can discover how it is possible to defy
the odds with STEM.
To help make this possible, my long-
term friend and colleague from Florida
(Mr. POSEY) and I worked together to
pass H.R. 2726, the Apollo 11 50th Anni-
versary Commemorative Coin Act,
which honors the Apollo 11 crew, NASA
scientists, engineers, astronauts, and
Americans from every State who made
the mission possible. The bill supports
college scholarships for future sci-
entists, engineers, and astronauts. Sur-
charges from the sale of the coins will
help promote STEM education, space
exploration, and scientific discovery.
I am grateful that throughout my
lifetime, these hidden figures have fi-
nally been brought into the light and
celebrated in the manner they have de-
served since 1969. They are no longer
hidden. Now, we all know them, cele-
brate them, and thank God for their
brilliance and magnificent contribu-
tions.
f
HONORING ABE BROWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Mr. Abe Brown.
In 1984, Mr. Brown was the first Afri-
can American to be elected Glynn
County coroner. This was not only im-
portant to Brunswick, but he was the
first African American coroner in the
entire State of Georgia.
His service to the Brunswick commu-
nity was exceptional. He made it a
point to treat each case like it was his
own family.
Before his remarkable 8 years of pub-
lic service, Mr. Brown owned a funeral
home in town and built friendships
with nearly everyone residing in
Brunswick. Citizens there remember
him as loved by anyone who came in
contact with him and as a man who
had a special way of encouraging peo-
ple to work together.
Mr. Brown passed away earlier this
year at the age of 77. This past June,
the Brunswick City Commission named
a park in his honor.
I am proud that Brunswick could cel-
ebrate his work with this park, an
honor that is truly well deserved.
RECOGNIZING SHAKEMA DEAL
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Ms.
Shakema Deal for her dedication to her
country, her community, and her own
education.
A native of the First Congressional
District of Georgia, Ms. Deal is cur-
rently serving in Afghanistan as part
of the Georgia National Guard. How-
ever, while at home, she works as a po-
lice officer with the Savannah Police
Department.
Through all of her hours spent keep-
ing the Savannah area a safe place to
live, as well as her time dedicated to
serving the United States Armed
Forces, Ms. Deal has been studying for
the last 7 months to earn a degree in
criminal justice administration from
Columbia College.
In late June, her fellow soldiers and
police colleagues took part in some-
thing truly unique: a graduation cere-
mony in Afghanistan.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Ms. Deal
on her graduation. She is an inspira-
tion to all of us, and I wish her the best
of luck with her career.
REMEMBERING DR. RAYMOND ALLEN COOK
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Dr. Raymond Allen Cook, who passed
away on June 29 at the age of 99.
Dr. Raymond Allen Cook dedicated
his life to sharing his love for English
language literature with not only
countless university students in the
State of Georgia but also students all
over the world. He taught for over 30
years at multiple Georgia universities
and even traveled the world to share
his knowledge when he was appointed
as a Fulbright lecturer in American lit-
erature at the University of Shiraz in
Iran.
Highly accomplished in academic cir-
cles, he published numerous papers and
even five books on some of the authors
who developed the canon of our lan-
guage’s literature, including Walt
Whitman, Geoffrey Chaucer, Jane Aus-
ten, and more.
Through all of this, he never forgot
where he came from. In 1964, Dr. Cook
returned to his and my alma mater,
Young Harris College, to serve as its
president.
I am thankful that both the State of
Georgia and also my alma mater,
Young Harris College, could partner
with a scholar as distinguished as Dr.
Cook for the last 30 years.
His family and friends will be in my
thoughts and prayers during this most
difficult time.
SALUTING CHIEF ANTHONY TANNER UPON HIS
RETIREMENT
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Chief An-
thony ‘‘Tony’’ Tanner, who has dedi-
cated his entire professional career to
protecting the city of Waycross from
crime.
Chief Tanner began his career over 30
years ago with the Waycross Police De-
partment in the First Congressional
District of Georgia. A testament to
both his hard work and commitment to
the city of Waycross, he worked his
way from patrol officer to chief of po-
lice, holding every single rank within
the department during different points
of his career.
Of the 12 men who have been chiefs of
police in Waycross beginning in 1906,
Chief Tanner has held the position
longer than any of them.
His work in his community doesn’t
stop there, though. Outside of the po-
lice force, he continued dedicating
time to the community through the
Exchange Club, Red Cross blood drives,
the Domestic Violence Task Force, and
much more.
Chief Tanner retired from the
Waycross Police Department on June
28, and his work in the First Congres-
sional District of Georgia will be deep-
ly missed.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Chief
Tanner on his retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING STEARNS COUNTY
FOR WATER CONSERVATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. EMMER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the Stearns County Soil
and Water Conservation District for re-
ceiving the Source Water Protection
Award for 2019.
Each year, the Minnesota Depart-
ment of Health and the Minnesota
Rural Water Association recognize
water suppliers that conserve re-
sources. This year, the Stearns County
facility demonstrated its ability to go
above and beyond to help save energy
for the community.
Over the course of the year, the
Stearns County facility updated its
wellhead protection activities and en-
sured its inventory met contamination
standards. Because of practices like
these, the constituents of Minnesota’s
Sixth Congressional District have ac-
cess to safe drinking water.
Additionally, these efforts worked to
conserve water, saving money for the
county and bettering the environment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.014 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5923
July 17, 2019
The Stearns County Soil and Water
Conservation District has worked
closely with grant programs to raise
money for its efforts. The citizens of
Stearns County have better access to
the services they need because the dis-
trict has put conservation and health
first.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the
Stearns County Soil and Water Con-
servation District for this outstanding
recognition. We are grateful for its
work to help our district and the great
State of Minnesota.
RECOGNIZING DAN STOLTZ
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Dan Stoltz for re-
ceiving the HERBIE Award.
This award from the St. Paul Area
Chamber of Commerce recognizes indi-
viduals that exemplify the traits in-
spired by its namesake, Herb Brooks:
humanitarian, enterprising, resilient,
bold, inspirational, and ethical.
Herb Brooks remains a Minnesota
legend. As coach of the United States
Olympic men’s hockey team in 1980, he
led them to their gold medal victory
with his focus, determination, strong
work ethic, and inspirational leader-
ship.
As CEO of Spire Federal Credit Union
and in his everyday life, I can attest
that Dan Stoltz channels the energy of
our Minnesota legend, Herb Brooks.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Dan for
this well-deserved award. Our commu-
nity appreciates the generosity he pro-
vides every day.
CONGRATULATING THE SCHLICHTINGS, FARM
FAMILY OF THE YEAR
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Schlichting
family for being named the University
of Minnesota 2019 Farm Family of the
Year.
The Schlichting farm is a third-gen-
eration farm owned and operated by
the Rick Schlichting family. His
grandparents homesteaded in Rice,
Minnesota, in the 1920s.
Since then, Rick has taken pride in
the land his family has worked and
cared for by restoring some of the land
to what it was like when his grand-
parents first settled the property. In
fact, close to 70 acres have been re-
verted to original prairie.
The Schlichtings are dedicated to
stewardship. In 2016, they were honored
with the Outstanding Conservationist
Award by the Minnesota Association of
Soil and Water Conservation Districts.
I am honored to represent farm fami-
lies like the Schlichtings. They have
dedicated themselves to preserving the
land while doing their part to feed the
world.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Rick and
his family for being named Farm Fam-
ily of the Year.
REMEMBERING GABRIELE GRUNEWALD
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to remember the incredible life
of Gabriele Grunewald, who passed
away far too early.
Taken by a disease that has impacted
the lives of nearly everyone we know,
Gabriele was known by the world as an
Olympic runner, star track athlete for
the University of Minnesota, and some-
one who fought cancer every step of
the way.
She used her story and her struggle
to share a message of hope. She did
this by starting the Brave Like Gabe
Foundation, which supports research
on rare cancers.
A cure is vital, but private and public
dollars are necessary to fund this work,
which is why we have and should con-
tinue to fund the National Institutes of
Health.
We did not have a cure in time for
Gabriele or for all the other loved ones
we have already lost, but if we con-
tinue to support medical research and
innovation, a cure will be found, and
we can save future generations from
this awful disease.
THANKING BRENT HALES FOR HIS SERVICE AND
LEADERSHIP
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to thank Brent D. Hales for the
service and leadership he provided to
the University of Minnesota’s Exten-
sion program. I am also grateful for his
participation on my Agricultural Advi-
sory Committee.
Brent’s service to agriculture in Min-
nesota has been amazing. His work to
foster community development and in-
novation in agricultural production
has served our State well.
We have been lucky to benefit from
his expertise and commitment. While
we will miss him, I want to congratu-
late Brent for his new role as Penn
State’s director of extension. As he
transitions out of this service to the
University of Minnesota on July 31, we
wish him the best.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Brent, and con-
gratulate him on his new opportunity.
f
b 1115
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ‘‘APOLLO
11’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. ADERHOLT) for 5 minutes.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, it is
no secret that it was 50 years ago this
week that three brave Americans
stepped foot on the Moon. When we
look at our children’s toys today, it is
amazing that they contain more data
processing power than the systems
which actually operated the Apollo ve-
hicles 50 years ago.
These three American astronauts—
Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Mi-
chael Collins—could not really know
whether they would return. They were
willing to serve their country and
proud for America to be leading the
world in space.
But even if our space program got a
strong jump-start, even because of the
Cold War, this mission was also about
the human spirit and the need to ex-
plore. The whole world was eager to
hear news of the mission. No matter
what may happen in the future, this
would be the first time human beings
would step foot on a world other than
our own home. Neil Armstrong’s de-
scription of that mission was a leap,
and it is as fitting today as it is in-
structional now.
I am excited, as many of my col-
leagues and many Americans are,
about the President’s call to accelerate
our plans to land again on the Moon by
2024. I am very proud of the role that
my home State of Alabama has played
in the development of the most power-
ful rockets, the Saturn family. You can
still see today, if you go down to
Huntsville, Alabama, a real Saturn V
rocket suspended horizontally at the
U.S. Space & Rocket Center in Hunts-
ville.
Likewise, I am proud of the Marshall
Space Flight Center, including the
Michoud Assembly Facility, as the de-
signer and the builder of the Space
Launch System. This will be the most
powerful rocket in the world and is ap-
proximately 90 percent finished. The
American taxpayers own it, and they
will benefit from it as a national asset.
It is the successful combined work of
product companies and suppliers from
virtually every State in the Nation.
The Saturn V rocket was able to exe-
cute the Apollo mission in one launch
because of the rocket’s third stage pro-
pelled lander and the reentry vehicle to
the Moon’s orbit.
Similarly, the SLS exploration upper
stage, referred to as the EUS, will en-
able a payload delivery to the Moon’s
orbit, including the Orion capsule, of 45
metric tons, three to four times great-
er than any other launch vehicle cur-
rently in use or close to completion. It
can have that EUS capability ready by
2024, but we can only have that ready if
we move ahead this year with that
goal.
Systems like the SLS and Orion in-
spire innovation, and maybe one day
other rockets and capsules will surpass
them. But to reach our goal by 2024, we
need to stay focused and complete
these nearly mature systems.
Some have said in recent years about
our going to the Moon: We have been
there. We have done that. With all due
respect, I would disagree. But this new
mission to the Moon, I would say: Go
there, but don’t stop there.
Sustainability offers many future
benefits, but let’s not get distracted for
this first human return to the Moon.
Let’s reach the peak. Let’s make that
landing.
And as we ponder the future of the
Moon, let’s look up again and set a
date, a real mission date, for setting
foot on Mars.
f
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ‘‘APOLLO
11’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. BALDERSON) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BALDERSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the 50th anni-
versary of spaceflight Apollo 11 that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.015 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5924 July 17, 2019
first landed humankind on the Moon.
As we all know, aboard this mission
were American heroes: Neil Armstrong,
Buzz Aldrin, Jr., and Michael Collins.
When Neil Armstrong first set foot
on the Moon on July 20, 1969, he se-
cured a place in a long, proud line of
Ohioans who have performed aviation
firsts. Beginning with the Wright
brothers and continuing today with the
fine scientists at NASA’s Glenn Re-
search Center, generations of Ohioans
have consistently led and driven inno-
vation in our country. For centuries,
Ohio has been on the forefront of new
technologies and always pushed the
boundaries of mankind in the name of
exploration.
I would be remiss if I did not person-
ally thank those brave astronauts who
led the Apollo 11 mission 50 years ago
for putting their lives on the line in
service to their country. When Com-
mander Armstrong took his first steps
onto the Moon, surely, he couldn’t
have known that a 7-year-old boy from
his home State of Ohio was watching in
amazement with his whole life ahead of
him.
May our country always remember
how profound the Apollo 11 Moon land-
ings were, and still are. May we always
honor the crew members, backup crew,
support crew, capsule communications,
and flight directors who made this mis-
sion a success and may the United
States of America forever remain not
only the first, but the principal nation
of space exploration.
f
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ‘‘APOLLO
11’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
today I rise to honor the 50th anniver-
sary of the Apollo 11 series.
When I think of Apollo 11, I am re-
minded of a feeling that many of us
have forgotten in this current time of
divisiveness and anger. Apollo 11 re-
minds me of an America that pulled to-
gether; a time when America
prioritized impossible dreams, because
impossible dreams were what built this
country; a time when we understood
that achieving those impossible dreams
was a way to make every child feel
prouder to be an American and every
adversary feel that our Nation loomed
larger than they could hope to sur-
mount.
As Americans, we work hard, we get
better, then we become the best.
At its core, space exploration and the
Moon landing were rooted in the Amer-
ican Dream, and I believe that dream is
still worth dreaming today.
Fifty years later, the Apollo series
and the space exploration of that time
remind us that we are part of some-
thing bigger than ourselves. I stand
here today as the congresswoman of a
district that is incredibly proud of our
contributions to space technology,
flight, and exploration. Really, our
contributions to bringing that dream
to life.
My district is home to many of the
Edwards Air Force Base workers who
are critical to our country’s defense
and service. We often say that the An-
telope Valley is actually the aerospace
valley because of how much testing, re-
search, and development takes place in
our community.
The NASA Armstrong Flight Re-
search Center at Edwards Air Force
Base made countless contributions to
the NASA human spaceflight program
during the sixties, from the X–15 rock-
et plane hypersonic research program
to the lunar landing research vehicle,
both of which had a direct impact on
the Apollo missions. In fact, the first
flight of a lunar landing research vehi-
cle was in 1964 at Edwards Air Force
Base. These vehicles were later used at
Ellington Air Force Base to train the
Apollo flight crew, including Neil Arm-
strong.
For my constituents and so many
others across the Nation, the celebra-
tion of the Apollo mission is the cele-
bration of our history. It is the celebra-
tion of people like my grandfather, who
worked on the thrusters for the lunar
lander. From 1961 to 1970, he was in-
volved with Apollo service module
rocket development, qualification, and
production.
In talking with my grandfather, I
have seen how much of a catalyst this
work is for our identity as Americans.
The Moon shot gave so many of us
something to believe in, and that belief
paid off in its enduring impact to sci-
entific discovery and commercial appli-
cations. We need to realize that tri-
umph in this generation of Americans.
My work on the House Armed Serv-
ices Committee has also shown me that
the military and our defense capabili-
ties simply don’t work any longer
without a mastery of space. Our adver-
saries are on their way to the Moon,
and we have no choice but to be there,
as well. That is a vital part of how we
maintain our status as the global lead-
er that we have always been. To keep
our strongest position, we have to have
a plan and a strategy for space.
In doing so, we will inspire a genera-
tion of STEM workers, many of them
young women, people of color, and
first-generation college students, to be
part of something great, something
that defines our identity as Americans.
We will stimulate our economy, inno-
vate products that stretch beyond use
in space, and contribute to our comfort
and well-being here in America.
On the 50th anniversary of Apollo, I
am honored to champion a program
that unlocked so much American
greatness. I am even more honored to
stand with the knowledge that greater
things are yet to come. Together, we
can do so much and go so far, further
than we have ever gone before. Because
we can. Because we have to. Because
our security demands it. Because, with-
out doing so, we will never know what
is possible. And as humans, as Ameri-
cans, we will not let the impossible
stop us.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately noon today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 25
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Reverend John P. Fitzgibbons, S.J.,
Regis University, Denver, Colorado, of-
fered the following prayer:
Most Holy God, please unite and
guide the leaders in this House to rec-
ognize, to speak for, and to safeguard
the vulnerable and the marginalized in
all corners of our Nation.
Help us to hear and to champion the
rights of dreamers of all colors, all con-
texts, and all ages, especially the
young, whose ardent desire is to know
and to build a better society.
Help us to illuminate the path and to
advocate for our country’s learners and
their teachers so that access to edu-
cation and the power of knowledge will
continue to produce servant leaders
committed to democracy, equality, and
justice.
Help us to unite our hearts and our
minds, to share freely of our gifts, to
reflect critical thought and responsible
action on moral and ethical issues, and
to be men and women for others that
both You and our constituents expect
and deserve.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. GARCÍA) come for-
ward and lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois led the Pledge
of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING REVEREND JOHN P.
FITZGIBBONS, S.J.
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentleman from California (Mr.
CISNEROS) is recognized for 1 minute.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.017 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5925
July 17, 2019
There was no objection.
Mr. CISNEROS. Madam Speaker, I
am delighted to welcome to this Cham-
ber Father John P. Fitzgibbons, who
delivered today’s opening prayer.
A native of Omaha, Nebraska, he en-
tered the Wisconsin Province of the So-
ciety of Jesus in 1973, and he was or-
dained as a priest in 1985.
Like all good Jesuits, Father
Fitzgibbons has dedicated his life to
God and to education. He currently
holds bachelor’s degrees in philosophy
and English, two master’s degrees in
theology, a master’s in English, as well
as a Ph.D. in English.
He had stints teaching at Creighton
and Marquette Universities, and he
served as the dean of the College of
Professional Studies at the University
of San Francisco. He would later re-
turn to Marquette University to serve
as the associate provost for faculty de-
velopment. In 2012, he was appointed
the 24th president of my alma mater,
Regis University.
Madam Speaker, I thank Father
Fitzgibbons for his 26 years in edu-
cation, his 34 years as a priest, and his
46 years of dedication to God. It has
been a tremendous pleasure having him
here today.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BEYER). The Chair will entertain up to
15 further requests for 1-minute speech-
es on each side of the aisle.
f
CELEBRATING THE 30TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF GRANDMONT ROSE-
DALE DEVELOPMENT CORPORA-
TION
(Ms. TLAIB asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in honor of the Grandmont Rosedale
Development Corporation as they cele-
brate 30 years of service to the resi-
dents of northwest Detroit.
Grandmont Rosedale Development
Corporation was formed in 1989, ini-
tially as a business association for the
five neighborhoods it represents. How-
ever, its focus from business to neigh-
borhood preservation. From then on,
Grandmont Rosedale Development Cor-
poration has been active in reducing
neighborhood blight, promoting sus-
tainable economic development, and
increasing homeownership.
Beyond that, they run a number of
community-based programs, including
a neighborhood coworking space, farm-
ers market, and vacant property task
force to help improve the quality of life
for all the residents in the city of De-
troit.
Grandmont Rosedale Development
Corporation’s holistic approach to
maintaining its neighborhoods is the
true definition of community develop-
ment. Its diverse staff and the count-
less volunteers put their heart and soul
into the community, and that shines
through in every project.
I am honored to serve this commu-
nity, and I commend Grandmont Rose-
dale Development Corporation on the
occasion of its 30th anniversary.
f
RECOGNIZING MURRAY-CALLOWAY
COUNTY CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Murray-
Calloway Chamber of Commerce for
their designation as the 2019 National
Chamber of the Year.
This national honor was awarded at
the ACCE National Convention in Long
Beach, California, on July 15. This is
the second win for the Murray-
Calloway County Chamber, the first
being in 2012.
The National Chamber of the Year
Award recognizes the area’s business
leaders whose community contribu-
tions are unparalleled. ACCE only in-
vites a limited number of the chambers
to apply, and the application process
considers the chambers’ structure, fi-
nances, member engagement, services,
and programs upon honoring a cham-
ber. The chamber’s efforts have bene-
fited not only the Murray-Calloway
County area, but positively impacted
communities throughout western Ken-
tucky.
I would like to thank President
Michelle Bundren and Board Chair
LaCosta Beane-Hays, as well as the di-
rectors, staff, and chamber members
for their unwavering dedication to the
betterment of local industry.
I look forward to future accomplish-
ments of the chamber and am proud to
represent the thriving business leaders
in Murray and Calloway County, Ken-
tucky.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF MICHAEL GONZALEZ
(Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I would like to honor the life and leg-
acy of one of my constituents and a
friend for over 50 years, Michael Gon-
zalez. He was a professional engineer,
deeply involved in many Chicago com-
munity issues and affairs.
As one of the founding members of
the Illinois Latino Legislative Caucus
Foundation, Michael paved the way for
younger Latinos to follow. In his role
as vice chair, Michael was instru-
mental to the growth of the foundation
for 17 years. His invaluable work for
our community ensured that hundreds
of talented Latino and Latina students
received scholarships to college.
Michael’s dedication and unwavering
commitment to the foundation did not
go unnoticed. He was often referred to
as ‘‘the heart and soul’’ of the founda-
tion. Most notably, he never received a
dollar for the thousands of hours he
dedicated to the foundation.
Michael Gonzalez leaves a legacy of
engagement that continues to shape
the foundation. His passing is a true
loss for the foundation and the commu-
nity. His presence in the community
will be missed by many.
I extend my condolences to family,
neighbors, and friends.
f
MADE IN AMERICA SHOWCASE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
the importance of American manufac-
turing and to highlight Pennsylvania’s
contributions.
This week, the White House hosted
its annual Made in America showcase,
displaying products from all 50 States.
Businesses of all sizes were invited to
participate in the event to highlight
the strength, creativity, and ingenuity
of American manufacturers. I am
pleased that Pennsylvania’s 15th Dis-
trict represented the Commonwealth
for 2 years in a row.
In 2018, BWP Bats, a baseball bat
company from Brookville, traveled to
the White House to share their prod-
ucts with attendees. This year, Zippo
lighters, which are manufactured in
Bradford, Pennsylvania, McKean Coun-
ty, represented the Keystone State.
Businesses involved in manufac-
turing are vital to Pennsylvania’s
economy. Advanced manufacturing
ranks among the Commonwealth’s top
five industries, and nearly 1 in 10 peo-
ple across the Commonwealth work for
a manufacturer.
A strong manufacturing sector helps
America stay competitive, and sup-
porting legislation that strengthens
the industry bolsters our Nation’s po-
tential for a prosperous future by keep-
ing good-paying, family-staying jobs
right here at home.
f
HEALTHCARE IS PERSONAL
(Ms. HILL of California asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to give voice to what so
many individuals and families in my
community and across the country are
feeling: deep anger at the threat of los-
ing access to their healthcare.
First, I have to condemn the develop-
ments in the Ninth Circuit case that
state title X providers can no longer
lawfully refer women for abortion serv-
ices.
Healthcare is personal. The conversa-
tions that take place between a woman
and her doctor cannot be policed by
Congress. These rules are damaging to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.019 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5926 July 17, 2019
providers and dangerous—possibly even
deadly—to patients.
What is worse is that it is not just re-
productive care. This administration is
using stacked courts to dismantle the
healthcare system that gives coverage
to millions of Americans, including
60,000 individuals in my district, with-
out even the vaguest plan to replace it.
My colleagues and I are working
every day to lower the cost of prescrip-
tion drugs and to ensure that we have
a healthcare system that works for ev-
eryone, while this administration tries
to rip coverage way. As Members of
Congress, we owe it to our commu-
nities to fight back against these
rollbacks at every step, and we will.
f
HOLLAND VIRTUAL TECH HIGH
SCHOOL PROGRAM
(Mr. HUIZENGA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Holland Virtual
Tech High School.
This program was brought to my at-
tention by a gentleman named Louis,
who talked about it and the positive
impact it had on his family during one
of my telephone townhalls recently.
Since 2015, the program has served as
an alternative credit recovery school
on the campus of Holland High School
in Holland, Michigan.
The fully accredited program offers a
unique online learning environment de-
signed for students who struggle in a
traditional classroom setting or have
fallen behind in their schoolwork due
to unforeseen circumstances. Together,
teachers, guidance counselors, and sup-
port staff at the school work with the
students to develop an individualized
graduation plan.
Through these efforts, nearly 400 stu-
dents have graduated from the pro-
gram. That represents countless lives
positively impacted, even more doors
opened, and endless opportunities cre-
ated for these young men and women.
Upon completion of the program, stu-
dents receive a Holland Public Schools
diploma that meets all requirements of
the Michigan Merit Curriculum. The
program has played an integral part in
increasing the overall Holland High
School graduation rate by 5 percentage
points over the last 2 years.
Students who graduate are equipped
with the skills to successfully transi-
tion into their postsecondary lives,
whether that be continued education,
apprenticeships, or directly into the
job market.
Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone who is
involved with Holland Virtual Tech
High School. Keep up the great work.
f
b 12l5
REMEMBERING THE PORT
CHICAGO 50
(Mr. DESAULNIER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. DESAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, on
this day in 1944, at 10:18 p.m., a cargo
vessel exploded at the Port Chicago
Naval Magazine located in my district
in California, resulting in the deadliest
home-front disaster of World War II.
All of the men loading ammunition
at the site that day were African
American. When the surviving sailors,
understandably, hesitated to return to
those unsafe conditions of loading, 50
were discriminately convicted of mu-
tiny.
Congress and the administration
have repeatedly recognized the injus-
tice these men suffered. Congress di-
rected the creation of a memorial, the
executive branch pardoned one of the
50, and the then-Secretary of the Navy
said he strongly supported executive
action in favor of the Port Chicago 50.
To commemorate this anniversary,
the House of Representatives passed,
just this week, our measure that di-
rects the Secretary of the Navy to fi-
nally exonerate the Port Chicago 50.
On the 75th anniversary today of the
explosion, let us remember the words
of Thurgood Marshall when he traveled
to San Francisco to defend these inno-
cent men. The future first African
American Supreme Court Justice said:
What is at stake here is more than the
rights of the Port Chicago 50. It is the moral
commitment stated in our Nation’s creed.
f
HONORING H. ROSS PEROT
(Mr. BURGESS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, yester-
day, back home in Texas, 1,500 people
gathered at the Highland Park United
Methodist Church on the campus of
SMU to honor the life and legacy of H.
Ross Perot.
We lost Mr. Perot just a little over a
week ago, at the age of 89. Mr. Perot
had an outsized influence on our State
and, indeed, our Nation.
Mr. Perot was remembered by his
children in very touching tributes.
Mr. Perot’s accomplishments were
too numerous to go into in the space of
a 1-minute talk, but I did want to ac-
knowledge all of the work that he did
on behalf of the United States pris-
oners of war and, certainly, his efforts
to elucidate the cause and, yes, some
treatment for what was then known as
Gulf War Syndrome.
Mr. Perot was a driving force in that,
and he should be remembered for all of
the efforts that he put forward for our
Nation’s servicemembers.
f
FREE TRADE AMONG FREE
PEOPLE
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, Amer-
ica’s economic history is rooted in the
exploitation of labor. It is a lesson
worth remembering, but its history is
not one of yesteryears alone.
Our existing trade deals impose an
economic model built on cheap labor,
where profits matter more than people.
This system undermines the rule of law
with a global race to the bottom.
Trade is not just about goods. It is
about people. It is about communities.
It is about workers.
In the agriculture sector alone, one
can argue that our continent has gone
from slavery to serfdom. That is why,
today, I am introducing the Inde-
pendent Labor Secretariat for Fair
Trade Deals Act.
We need a trade model that respects
workers and holds employers and work-
ers accountable, with strong mecha-
nisms for labor enforcement.
My bill would establish an inde-
pendent labor secretariat to monitor
and enforce transnational labor issues,
with a wages and standards working
group with expert wage panels to study
the impacts on wages, benefits, labor
rights, working conditions, and in-
equality.
The bill also requires that any trade
agreement eligible for expedited con-
sideration include enforceable labor
standards and protections.
Mr. Speaker, let us dignify the work-
ers who sustain us.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 582, RAISE THE WAGE ACT
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 492 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 492
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 582) to provide for in-
creases in the Federal minimum wage, and
for other purposes. All points of order
against consideration of the bill are waived.
The amendment in the nature of a substitute
recommended by the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor now printed in the bill,
modified by the amendment printed in part
A of the report of the Committee on Rules
accompanying this resolution, shall be con-
sidered as adopted. The bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as
amended, and on any further amendment
thereto, to final passage without intervening
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee on
Education and Labor; (2) the further amend-
ment printed in part B of the report of the
Committee on Rules, if offered by the Mem-
ber designated in the report, which shall be
in order without intervention of any point of
order, shall be considered as read, shall be
separately debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, and shall not
be subject to a demand for division of the
question; and (3) one motion to recommit
with or without instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York is recognized
for 1 hour.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.021 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5927
July 17, 2019
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. BURGESS), pending
which I yield myself such time as I
may consume. During consideration of
this resolution, all time yielded is for
the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, on
Monday, the Rules Committee met and
reported out a rule, House Resolution
492, providing for consideration of H.R.
582, the Raise the Wage Act, under a
structured rule.
The rule provides 1 hour of debate
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking member of the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor. The
rule makes in order one amendment,
debatable for 10 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, the Raise the Wage Act
gradually increases the Federal min-
imum wage to $15 an hour by 2025,
thereby fulfilling a promise to the
American people that with hard work
comes, at a minimum, a livable wage.
Not a wage with eroded purchasing
power or a wage that keeps workers
from providing for their families, but a
minimum wage that empowers Ameri-
cans and gives them a fighting chance
at economic mobility.
It has been over a decade, the longest
stretch since the establishment of the
Federal minimum wage, since this
body voted to increase the minimum
wage. This is a great disservice to the
American people, and I am thankful to
Chairman SCOTT for making a gradual
increase of the Federal minimum wage
a top priority of his Committee on
Education and Labor, of which I am a
proud member.
In my home State of New York, we
have one of the highest minimum
wages in the country. I was proud to
support gradually increasing the min-
imum wage to $15 an hour while I
served as majority leader in the New
York State Assembly, and I look for-
ward to doing the same here today to
ensure all Americans working full-time
can live safely and sustainably above
the poverty line.
The benefits of increasing the min-
imum wage have far-reaching impacts
throughout our society. The Raise the
Wage Act could increase wages for over
30 million Americans, people who get
up every day to work toward their own
version of the American Dream.
It empowers women, narrowing the
gender wage pay gap through pay in-
creases for nearly 23 million women
across America.
It would also lift the families of at
least 1.3 million Americans, 600,000 of
whom are children, out of poverty.
Let’s just think about that for a mo-
ment: 1.3 million Americans who are
working hard to make ends meet but
struggle below the poverty line be-
cause, for years, Congress let the real
value of their hard-earned dollars
erode.
This isn’t a handout for them. This is
a fair and overdue adjustment for em-
ployees who deserve to earn a livable
wage.
Recently, a friend of mine, who is the
administrator at Temple B’rith Kodesh
in Rochester, New York, where I
worked to put myself through college,
sent me a copy of my pay stub from
1976.
At the time, I made the minimum
wage, $2.30 an hour. People might
argue or debate whether or not I was
worth $2.30 an hour, but that was the
minimum wage in 1976. Adjusted for in-
flation, that would be $10.35 in 2019 dol-
lars.
Had the minimum wage kept pace
with inflation, a worker who puts in
2,000 hours annually would make $20,700
today, but because the Federal min-
imum wage is still at $7.25, or more
than $2 an hour lower than if the min-
imum wage had simply been adjusted
for inflation since that time, the same
full-time worker today earns $14,500, a
more than $6,200 erosion of purchasing
power since 1976.
Even if you adjust for inflation since
2009 and look again at a 2,000-hour
work year annually, the difference is
$2,800.
When you are living paycheck to pay-
check, as many minimum wage work-
ers do, an additional $6,200, or at least
$2,800 annually, can make a significant
difference in your financial stability.
Gradually raising the minimum wage
to $15 an hour doesn’t just benefit
those earning minimum wage. It boosts
the local economy in communities
across this country.
A gradual increase to $15 will accel-
erate economic growth by putting
money in the pockets of workers who
want—and now can afford—to spend
money beyond their basic needs.
Whether it be at the community gro-
cery stores or family-owned shops, by
spending money back in their local
economy, they contribute to a positive
economic cycle.
From narrowing the gender pay gap
and lifting families out of poverty to
strengthening local economies, the
Raise the Wage Act has clear benefits
we should all get behind. I am proud to
be a cosponsor of this significant piece
of legislation and urge all my col-
leagues to join me in supporting its
passage.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. MORELLE for yielding the cus-
tomary 30 minutes, and I yield myself
such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today we are consid-
ering H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act.
This legislation would raise the Fed-
eral minimum wage to $15 an hour, a
107 percent increase over the current
rate of $7.25 an hour.
An increase of this magnitude could
harm American businesses, could harm
American consumers, and certainly
will harm American workers.
The legislation does not consider the
labor market, it disincentivizes job
growth, and it has the potential to
leave nearly 4 million workers unem-
ployed.
Let us consider the data. The Con-
gressional Budget Office recently re-
leased a report on the effects of man-
dating a Federal minimum wage in the
United States.
The report explains how more than
doubling the minimum wage would in-
crease unemployment up to 4 million
individuals. Four million workers
would have to be laid off to increase
wages for a little over 1 million people.
That means, for each person lifted
out of poverty due to a wage increase,
another three individuals will lose
their jobs. Why?
I ask my colleagues: Is this a fair
tradeoff? This bill creates false hope
for low-wage earners who will be count-
ing on a wage increase and keeping
their job. But what if they don’t keep
their job? Then it is no wage at all.
In addition, those who are most like-
ly to lose their jobs are likely to be mi-
norities, women, and our young people.
Increasing the Federal minimum
wage to $15 an hour would have unin-
tended secondary effects, particularly
increasing the risk of inflation. As
wages increase, the cost of doing busi-
ness will rise as well. Businesses will be
forced to pass on these increased costs
by raising the price of their goods and
services. As the costs are passed on to
the consumer, who will be hurt the
most?
It is those vulnerable populations at
the lower wage scale that this bill sup-
posedly helps: the Americans who live
in poverty.
Congress cannot, in good conscience,
pass this legislation, at least, without
understanding the full effects.
In January, the American Enterprise
Institute released a report detailing
how the costs of goods have changed
over the past 20 years, controlled for
inflation. This study included every-
thing from televisions to furniture to
housing and more.
Unsurprisingly, the products with the
most government involvement—let’s
use as examples healthcare and edu-
cation—saw the most rapid increase in
cost.
Is it the intent of the majority to in-
crease prices of many consumer prod-
ucts and services beyond what would be
natural economic inflation?
Congress must also consider how this
legislation will impact different parts
of the country in different ways.
Many urban areas have already
raised their minimum wage to similar
levels. By the end of this year, New
York City and San Francisco will have
minimum wages of $15 an hour. Se-
attle’s two-tiered minimum wage sys-
tem goes even further by requiring
small employers to pay $15 an hour and
large employers to pay $16 an hour.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.023 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5928 July 17, 2019
However, in many parts of the coun-
try, they simply cannot handle the
burden of a $15-an-hour minimum
wage. Rural areas with small mom-
and-pop businesses and significantly
lower costs of living do not have the
same needs or purchasing priorities as
urban dwellers.
A Federal minimum wage should be a
floor for all workers, not the floor for
those working and living in the heart
of the most expensive areas of the
country.
Even the progressive think tank, The
Third Way, lobbied for a regional min-
imum wage in place of an across-the-
board increase.
If this legislation goes into effect as
currently written, it should be re-
named the ‘‘Rural Jobs Killer Act’’ be-
cause this one-size-fits-all policy would
accomplish just that.
b 1230
Another consequence of this legisla-
tion will be the pricing-out of individ-
uals who seek to enter the workforce.
According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, nearly half of low-wage
earners are under 25 years of age. In-
creasing the Federal minimum wage to
$15 an hour will make it harder for
these individuals to compete, meaning
that many will not be able to find
work.
As a teenager growing up in Denton,
Texas, I worked a lot of different jobs.
I bailed hay, delivered pizzas, and
mowed lawns to earn money for my
education. Passing this legislation will
eliminate such opportunities for the
young people of today.
With this concern in mind, I offered
an amendment to the Raise the Wage
Act to protect opportunities for entry-
level workers. My amendment would
ensure that those individuals with less
than a year of work experience have
the opportunity to compete in the job
market by allowing an entry-level
wage for workers with less than 1
year’s experience.
The initial wage would be set at the
current minimum of $7.25 an hour for
the first year. Following that year, the
Secretary of Labor would be authorized
to update the entry-level minimum
wage using a market-based analysis.
The Secretary would be tasked to up-
date this wage every 5 years to keep up
with the changing labor and business
environment, instead of a heavyhanded
government mandate.
Young Americans and new workers
deserve a chance to gain experience
without being priced out of the job
market by more experienced job seek-
ers.
The final downside of a significantly
higher Federal minimum wage is the
risk this action has on the rapid auto-
mation of many jobs throughout the
economy. Automation in stores, vehi-
cles, and assembly lines could make
many of our everyday tasks more effi-
cient and convenient. However, the
new technologies will likely displace
those who are not trained for other oc-
cupations.
There is a compelling commercial
that one of our fast-food franchises has
today that details the path of a young
woman who gets her first job at one of
these restaurants. Then, it sort of de-
tails her progress in every stage along
the way. They say her name, and she
gets the job. She gets promotions. She
gets into school. She is the first in her
family to walk across the stage at
graduation.
But wouldn’t it be ironic if, instead
of that young woman’s name, they
would have a kiosk from the same fast-
food franchise. The kiosk is actually
advancing through the university, the
artificial intelligence university. Even-
tually, the kiosk may sit in the Speak-
er’s chair one day.
Look, that is not the future we want.
We want to empower our young people.
We want to be able to give them work
experience and allow them to work and
grow.
It is a beautiful commercial. I think
they have done a wonderful job telling
that experience. But ironically, I think
of that now when I go into that same
restaurant. I am able to order a cup of
coffee off the kiosk, and I never have to
interact with an actual human at all.
Increasing the minimum wage by 107
percent across the country will expe-
dite this process quicker than the pace
of innovation ever would.
My fellow Texas Representative,
freshman Representative RON WRIGHT,
brought this concern to the attention
of his colleagues at the House Edu-
cation and Labor Committee. During
consideration of this bill, Mr. WRIGHT
offered an amendment that required
the Government Accountability Office
to study the impact of the minimum
wage on the loss of jobs due to automa-
tion and would stop the minimum wage
hike if this job loss rose to half a mil-
lion jobs. That seems reasonable.
Unfortunately, our colleagues on the
other side of the dais in the Education
and Labor Committee rejected his con-
cerns and his amendment.
With that said, I commend my Demo-
cratic colleagues for their efforts to
support the disability community with
the inclusion of H.R. 873, the Trans-
formation to Competitive Employment
Act.
Under the Fair Labor Standards Act,
the Department of Labor is able to
grant employers 14(c) certificates.
These certificates give employers the
legal right to pay disabled employees’
wages below minimum wage, officially
called subminimum wages. This unfair
policy enables individuals with disabil-
ities to be exploited under the guise of
integrating them into society.
However, a 2001 GAO report found
that only 5 percent of disabled workers
at workshops that used the 14(c) cer-
tificates found employment outside of
these facilities. Little to no training
took place, and there was minimal in-
tegration into our modern society.
Some workers, unfortunately, were
paid as little as 4 cents an hour.
This issue was brought to my atten-
tion by a constituent of mine, Blake
Pyron. Blake is a hardworking Texan.
He owns his own business in Sanger,
Texas.
Blake happens to have Down syn-
drome. He was the first person with
Down syndrome in the State of Texas
to start his own business, and he has
been an advocate for those with dis-
abilities for years. Blake is proof that
being differently abled does not change
the value of one’s life or one’s labor.
Congress should continue to allow
real wage growth to take place through
a thriving labor market. By avoiding
burdensome Federal mandates, by re-
ducing expenses, by reducing red tape,
Americans will see gains in produc-
tivity and wages, allowing for more
employment, not less.
We don’t have to look very far to see
an example of this. Over the past 2
years, the United States has seen un-
precedented low levels of unemploy-
ment and record-high rates of wage
growth. Due to comprehensive tax re-
form passed by the last Congress in the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, American com-
panies have been able to reinvest in
their employees and projects like never
before.
Due to the Trump administration’s
effort to reform and rein in overbearing
and obstructive Federal regulations,
the economy is no longer being held
back.
With 7 million unfilled jobs in the
United States today, the best way to
raise wages is to let the power of cap-
italism work and allow companies to
compete for workers. I urge opposition
to the rule.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I appreciate hearing from my distin-
guished friend and colleague on the
Rules Committee, Mr. BURGESS. There
is a lot to unpack from what he said.
Let me make a few points before I yield
to my colleagues on my side of the
aisle.
First of all, as it relates to the eco-
nomic numbers, the picture that Mr.
BURGESS painted is heavily overstated.
What it doesn’t take into consideration
is the full picture here, which is the
question of, if you are going to estab-
lish as a matter of public policy that
there ought to be a minimum wage
throughout this country, you do so rec-
ognizing that that minimum wage
ought to continue to keep pace so that
it doesn’t get eroded over time. I will
come back to that in a minute.
I want to remind the gentleman that
this change alone would lift 1.3 million
people out of poverty—600,000 of whom
are children who live in poverty—even
though they might work 2,000 hours a
year, what we consider full-time, full
employment.
It is extraordinary. The savings alone
to the government for people who are
no longer in poverty and who might
rise out of the need for public programs
will be significant. Thirty million peo-
ple would benefit from this. Thirty mil-
lion Americans benefit from the legis-
lation that Mr. SCOTT has advanced.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.024 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5929
July 17, 2019
I also note that this economy has
been growing for a decade now, what I
call the Obama recovery, which has
continued. I also have the view that
Presidents probably get too much
blame and certainly take too much
credit, perhaps, for economic growth.
This has been a sustained recovery.
During times when there are labor
shortages is exactly the time that we
would want to raise the minimum
wage. To do it during a labor market in
which there was an excess labor capac-
ity would be the wrong time, it seems
to me, from an economics point of
view.
Nonetheless, the point here is that
the value of this has been agreed to
since 1938, when the minimum wage
was first enacted under Franklin D.
Roosevelt.
I note, too, that in Mr. BURGESS’ dis-
trict in Texas alone, 26 percent of
workers would see a raise of $3,900 a
year, on average. That is just in that
district. That is a significant change in
the economic well-being of people in
his district in Texas.
I certainly don’t ever doubt the sin-
cerity of my colleague, but what would
the minimum wage be?
Perhaps my colleagues could argue
we get full employment at $2 an hour.
Unfortunately, people would make
$4,000 a year. So if we are going to be
truthful to and have fidelity to the no-
tion that a floor needs to be estab-
lished—and that is what this is; States
and communities are free to raise be-
yond the Federal minimum wage—then
the question is, what do we set it at?
I note that in 2007, when the question
was last before the House and when we
raised the minimum wage that was at
$5.85 per hour, and it is now at $7.25,
Mr. BURGESS voted ‘‘no,’’ as did many
of his colleagues.
Should the minimum wage still be
$5.85? I think the question is, what do
we value as Americans? What is the ap-
propriate public policy for establishing
the floor for what an individual works
in America?
We feel very strongly about it. We
feel lifting 30 million Americans’ eco-
nomic prospects make this the appro-
priate thing to do, particularly in an
economy that is growing and an econ-
omy that can certainly not only afford
it, but we believe there is a moral im-
perative to do so.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
FRANKEL).
Ms. FRANKEL. Mr. Speaker, I stand
in support of this very important legis-
lation, the Raise the Wage Act.
Mr. Speaker, they are your mothers,
your daughters, your sisters, your
grandmothers. They are your childcare
workers, your home health aides, your
retail workers, your maids. They, too,
have to pay rent, buy food for their
families. By the time many retire, they
live in poverty.
Women play an essential role in the
economy of the United States of Amer-
ica yet make up two-thirds of min-
imum-wage workers. They are our
mothers, our sisters, our grand-
mothers, our daughters. They deserve a
raise, and they need a raise.
When women succeed, America suc-
ceeds.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself 2 minutes for the purpose of re-
sponse.
The gentleman, Mr. MORELLE, was
not here in 2007, the last time the min-
imum wage vote was taken.
The Speaker of the House was the
same Speaker of the House that we
have now. The minimum wage was
raised. I don’t know if the gentleman
remembers what happened in the year
and a half following that, but job losses
in this country were staggering. I am
not saying it was a one-to-one relation-
ship, but it certainly set the stage. The
economy may have already been soft-
ening, but it really did accelerate the
job losses that occurred in the reces-
sion of 2008.
Now, the gentleman correctly points
out that 1.3 million people would get a
raise. That comes at the expense of 4
million people who would see their em-
ployment eliminated by raising the
minimum wage. Is that really the di-
rection we want to go?
His jurisdiction has raised the min-
imum wage. Any jurisdiction that I
represent is free to raise the minimum
wage to whatever level it wants. A city
in my district may say that it is not
going to negotiate with a contractor
that pays less than $15 an hour. That is
fine. That is its job. That is its prerog-
ative. It may do so, but it will find
itself in competition with other juris-
dictions that perhaps will not be so on-
erous.
Look, I was an employer not too ter-
ribly long ago, and I recognized, in the
full-employment economy of the 1990s,
that if I posted a job, the most entry-
level job in my medical practice, for a
minimum wage hire, I was wasting my
money. No one was going to respond to
that ad because no one worked for min-
imum wage in the late 1990s during the
tech boom. Everyone had jobs that paid
higher than the minimum wage.
That should be our aspirational goal,
to have an economy that pays more
than what a baseline economy would
pay.
I sat on the Joint Economic Com-
mittee for the first several years of the
Obama administration. It was a dif-
ficult time in this country. Christina
Romer and Mr. Summer would tell us
that the country’s best days were be-
hind us.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself an additional 1 minute.
Now, we find ourselves emerging into
a new area of our economy, a new area
of economic freedom. Why don’t we
embrace that?
Look, if we really wanted to do some-
thing to help people at the lower end of
the wage scale, we would be working
seriously on border security. We
wouldn’t have off-the-books labor com-
peting with the lowest wage earners in
this country. We would fix that prob-
lem as a United States Congress. That
might have been a better effort than
what we spent our day doing yesterday.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1245
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I will admit I think this is the first
time I have heard that the great crisis
of 2007–2008 was caused by or a contrib-
uting factor was the increase in the
Federal minimum wage from $5.85.
That sort of ignores the problems in
the housing industry, credit default
swaps, and a whole host of things in
the financial community, not to men-
tion what happened in the automotive
industry. So this is the first time I
have heard that theory promoted by
anyone, and I think it varies dramati-
cally from what history will write
about 2007 and 2008.
Nonetheless, I do want to just correct
a few things that I thought I heard my
distinguished friend say.
First of all, the 1.3 million people
who will receive a raise, that is not
what I said nor is it what CBO said. 1.3
million people will be out of poverty. It
will be a raise for 27 million Ameri-
cans. So that is the right number. It is
not 1.3 million; it is almost 30 million
Americans.
I just note that nowhere in the CBO
does it talk about 4 million people
being displaced. What it says is that
there will be zero to 3.7, a two-thirds
chance that will happen. The median
loss will be 1.3 million. So nowhere is
there 4 million.
But, again, the point here that I
think we should take from this is,
using the logic that has been posited
by my friend and colleague, you could
argue that, using that logic, there
would be no minimum wage. Just let
the States do whatever the States
choose to do, localities do whatever lo-
calities choose to do. That is not the
public policy decision we made in 1938,
and we continue to have fidelity to this
day and this time and place.
Now, there may be people who dis-
agree with that who think there ought
not be a Federal minimum wage at all.
I guess that is certainly their right to
do that and make that argument. But
the most important thing here is that,
if we are going to establish this—which
we on this side of the aisle certainly
believe in the Federal minimum wage—
if you are going to allow it to continue
to function without the erosion of in-
flation and the loss of purchasing
power, making adjustments—which I
think is one of the things that most ad-
vocates for this bill is that there may
be other changes in time to wage rates,
et cetera, under law—this will estab-
lish, for the first time in Federal law,
a wage inflation adjustor each year so
that we will stop, for the first time
since we initiated the minimum wage,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.026 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5930 July 17, 2019
the erosion of purchasing power, and
we won’t need to wait 10 years.
This is the longest period of time, as
I mentioned in my opening comments,
the longest period of time since the es-
tablishment of the Federal minimum
wage, that we have waited to make
those adjustments.
I would just note that, while I was
not here and I was laboring in the
State legislature in New York creating
what I think was good economic policy,
I noted that the Committee on Edu-
cation Labor, during the intervening
time while my friends were in the ma-
jority, not only did they not attempt
to raise the minimum wage, they did
not hold a single hearing on the ero-
sion of the purchasing power of the
minimum wage, which at the time was
$7.25 and remains, to this date, $7.25.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR).
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, corporate
America and Wall Street are awash in
profits and cash, but American workers
haven’t had the benefit of a Federal
minimum wage increase in over a dec-
ade, while the prices of everything
have gone up—medicine, housing, food,
cars. A recent study found there isn’t a
single congressional district in our Na-
tion where a full-time minimum wage
worker can afford a two-bedroom
apartment.
While many States and cities have
raised their own minimum wage re-
quirements, millions of Americans are
stuck at $7.25 an hour.
What does this really mean? A person
working full time for minimum wage
takes home an annual salary of just a
bit over $15,000 a year. With inflation,
these workers have effectively had
their wages cut by an astonishing 17
percent.
That is why I rise today in support of
the Raise the Wage Act, a bill that will
gradually raise the minimum wage to
$15 by 2025, lift 27 million American
workers out of poverty, give roughly 40
million Americans a raise—nearly a
third of our workforce—and stimulate
local economies as Americans have
more money to spend.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentlewoman from Ohio an addi-
tional 15 seconds.
Ms. KAPTUR. Such a raise would put
$3,200 in the pockets of more than
128,000 workers just in northern Ohio.
Mr. Speaker, the Raise the Wage Act
will dramatically improve the lives of
millions of hardworking people and
families and communities across our
country. Let’s come together and real-
ly help the American people who are
working and pass this much-needed
legislation without delay.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself 30 seconds just to read from the
Congressional Budget Office report.
The paragraph that says, ‘‘Effects of
the $15 option on employment and in-
come,’’ ends with the sentence ‘‘a re-
duction of 3.7 million workers.’’ And
there is also the little item of an $8.7
billion loss in family income.
I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman
from Alabama (Mr. BROOKS).
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, socialist Democrats support open
borders. Open borders mean a literal
tsunami of illegal alien labor that arti-
ficially inflates the labor supply and
suppresses American wages. This is ec-
onomics 101. If the supply goes up, ev-
erything else being constant, the price
goes down.
The way to raise wages is simple:
America must stop importing cheap
foreign labor that takes American jobs
from American workers and suppresses
the wages of hardworking Americans
who need that money for their fami-
lies.
The question is: Do we care enough
about American family incomes to se-
cure our borders and stop the flood of
illegal alien labor that suppresses
American wages? Of course not. In-
stead, there are those who seek an im-
perial decree for a $15-per-hour min-
imum wage.
Well, that all sounds fine and good.
Socialist policies always have a cost,
and according to the nonpartisan Con-
gressional Budget Office, that cost is a
loss of as many as 3.7 million jobs.
You heard right. The policies being
advocated today really are advocating
the firing of as many as 3.7 million
American workers from their jobs.
That is like firing the entire popu-
lation of the State of Oklahoma.
Mr. Speaker, if the advocates of this
legislation really cared about Amer-
ican workers, they would not fire
them; rather, they would help secure
our borders, save American jobs, save
American incomes, and, as an added
bonus, help prevent the deaths of over
30,000 Americans who die each year be-
cause of America’s porous southern
border.
But that is not what the advocates of
this legislation prefer. Rather, out of a
lust for political power, they prefer
open borders and the firing of 3.7 mil-
lion American workers.
Mr. Speaker, I say yes to border secu-
rity; I say no to killing jobs; and I say
no to this job-killing socialist legisla-
tion.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I note that using that
logic, people might have said the same
thing about my grandparents who
came over from Italy at the turn of the
previous century, who came to work in
this country as carpenters and brick-
layers and pipefitters.
What we really need, if the gen-
tleman is serious, is a path to citizen-
ship to allow people, as we did a cen-
tury ago, to come and fulfill and be a
part of the American Dream.
The truth is it also avoids what is
happening, which is we have a shortage
of workers in the country. Every week
I try to visit employers in my commu-
nity and get a sense of the pulse of
what the challenges are that they face
in continuing to seek economic growth
and more opportunities. Repeatedly, I
hear the same thing over and over
again: We need good workers. Send us
more workers. Do whatever you can.
This is the time while our economy
continues to grow following the poli-
cies of the Obama administration, con-
tinuing today, economic growth is now
at a 10-year sustained path, but we
need workers. You see this all the
time.
We can talk, and I am happy to talk
about the impacts of automation and
robotics and AI, but the truth is that,
even among some of the biggest tech-
nology companies in the United States,
there are thousands and thousands of
openings for jobs. This is hardly a job
killer. This is rewarding people who
put in long hours, who look to climb
that ladder of success in the American
economy.
I just note, also, for my colleague,
Mr. BROOKS, that 34 percent of the
workers in his district in Alabama
would receive an average raise of $3,700
a year by implementation of this wage
increase.
And I would also remind my col-
leagues, 65 percent of Americans, when
asked, believe that increasing the min-
imum wage to $15 an hour by 2024 is the
right policy for Congress to take.
So this has the backing and support
of the American public. It has a clear
path to making sure that there isn’t
erosion of income in the United States
by people at the lowest end of the eco-
nomic scale. It is an opportunity for us
to think about a path to citizenship, to
end the challenges faced by so many
employers who seek good, hardworking
workers.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE), my good friend and a distin-
guished gentleman.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 582,
the Raise the Wage Act. It has been
more than a decade since working peo-
ple got a raise in this country. Ameri-
cans are working harder than ever, and
labor productivity is overperforming
expectations.
However, the profit of this increased
productivity is not being felt in the
checkbooks of working people. In fact,
American workers have experienced a
20 percent pay cut in real income due
to inflation and the government’s fail-
ure to raise wages.
It is unconscionable that people
working full time in the wealthiest na-
tion in the history of the world are un-
able to afford basic essentials or live in
poverty. That is why it is critical that
we pass the Raise the Wage Act.
Here are the facts: The bill will in-
crease wages for nearly 34 million
American workers. About 28 percent of
workers in my district in Rhode Island
will get a raise of about $2,100 a year. It
will lift 3.1 million Americans out of
poverty, including 600,000 children, and
it will stimulate economic growth. And
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.028 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5931
July 17, 2019
we know that when workers earn more,
they spend more money.
While the top 1 percent of Americans
continue to amass Gilded Age amounts
of wealth, working men and women
have been left behind. It is time to re-
affirm our commitment to hard-
working Americans and pass this crit-
ical legislation. Americans deserve a
raise, and that is what this bill does.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter signed by many LGBTQ organi-
zations and human rights organiza-
tions in strong support of this legisla-
tion.
JULY 16, 2019.
DEAR MEMBER OF CONGRESS: We, the under-
signed organizations, write to express our
strong support for the Raise the Wage Act
(H.R. 582). As lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) and allied
organizations, we believe raising the min-
imum wage is a critical LGBTQ issue. Rais-
ing the federal minimum wage would benefit
LGBTQ people by helping to reduce poverty
and increase stability and economic security
for LGBTQ people and their families.
Because of discrimination in employment,
housing, education, and other areas, LGBTQ
individuals are more likely to be jobless,
homeless, and poor than the general popu-
lation. Nearly 40 million workers, including
LGBTQ people, would receive increased
wages from the Act. In light of the dis-
proportionate rates of poverty among
LGBTQ people, passing this measure is a
critical priority for our community.
The Raise the Wage Act would raise the
federal minimum wage to $8.55 this year and
increase it gradually over the next six years
until it reaches $15 an hour in 2025. After
2025, the minimum wage would be adjusted
annually to keep pace with growth in the
typical worker’s wages. In addition, the Act
would phase out the outdated subminimum
wage for tipped workers, which has been
stagnant at $2.13 since 1991. It would also
sunset the ability for employers to pay a
subminimum wage to workers with disabil-
ities and phase out the subminimum wage
for workers under the age of 20.
An increase in the federal minimum wage
would help the LGBTQ community, espe-
cially its most marginalized members. In-
comes would rise above poverty level for
nearly 30,000 people in same-sex relation-
ships. Raising the minimum wage to $15
would decrease poverty by almost 50%
among female same-sex couples and by 35%
among male same-sex couples.
Transgender people would be particularly
impacted by this bill. Almost one-third of
transgender people live in poverty, which is
more than twice the rate of the U.S. general
population.
The bill would also have a profound impact
on LGBTQ youth, who make up between 30%
and 40% of homeless youth. 47% of these
LGBTQ homeless youth are persons of color.
Since 55% of homeless LGBTQ youth were
forced out by their parents or ran away be-
cause of their sexual orientation or gender
identity, more than 50% of LGBTQ homeless
youth remain homeless for longer periods of
time than non-LGBTQ homeless youth. Rais-
ing the wage and phasing out the submin-
imum wage for workers under age 20 will
help reduce homelessness among LGBTQ
youth by helping them afford housing and
achieve economic security independent of
their families.
Additionally, the Act will have enormous
impacts on LGBTQ people of color and
LGBTQ women. 37% of the LGBTQ commu-
nity identify as people of color. Under the
Act, 40% of Black workers and 34% of Latino/
a workers will benefit. Women account for
nearly 56% of the workers benefiting from an
increased minimum wage. Women also ac-
count for 2⁄3 of the country’s tipped workers,
who are more than twice as likely to live in
poverty than the rest of the workforce.
LBTQ women are more likely than their
non-LBTQ counterparts to receive public as-
sistance, be unemployed, and be near or
under the poverty level.
Critics of the bill have argued against rais-
ing the federal minimum wage, proposing in-
stead that minimum wages should be estab-
lished by region. However, a minimum wage
of $15 by 2025 is not unrealistic in any part of
the U.S. In addition, rural communities have
a strong incentive to support the Act be-
cause they are experiencing a housing afford-
ability crisis in part due to flat incomes for
low- and moderate-income workers in those
communities.
Additionally, the Act’s plan to phase in the
$15 wage over six years allows for lower-wage
states and regions to adjust to the new wage.
Opponents of the bill also contend that small
businesses do not benefit from raising the
wage. However, 61% of American small busi-
ness owners support raising the minimum
wage.
For these reasons, we support the Raise
the Wage Act and urge you to consider the
enormous benefits the bill will bring to the
LGBTQ community. LGBTQ workers need
jobs that allow them to have security and
take care of themselves and their families.
Sincerely,
9to5, A Better Balance, AIDS Action Balti-
more, AIDS Alabama, AIDS Foundation of
Chicago, AIDS Legal Referral Panel, AIDS
United, Alaskans Together For Equality, Al-
bany Damien Center, American Association
of University Women (AAUW), Americans for
Democratic Action (ADA), Athlete Ally,
Black AIDS Institute, Cascade AIDS Project,
Center for American Progress, Center for
Black Equity, Center for Disability Rights,
CenterLink: The Community of LGBT Cen-
ters, Coalition on Human Needs, DC Fights
Back.
Equality California, Equality Federation,
Equality Illinois, Equality North Carolina,
Equality Utah, Fair Wisconsin, Family
Equality, Family Values @ Work, Howard
Brown Health, In Our Own Voice: National
Black Women’s Reproductive Justice Agen-
da, Interfaith Worker Justice, Lambda
Legal, Latinos Salud, LGBTQ Allyship,
Modem Military Association of America,
MomsRising, Movement Advancement
Project, National Asian Pacific American
Women’s Forum (NAPAWF), National Center
for Lesbian Rights, National Center for
Transgender Equality.
National Coalition for the Homeless, Na-
tional Council on Independent Living
(NCIL), National Employment Law Project,
National Equality Action Team (NEAT) Na-
tional LGBT Cancer Network, National
LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund, National
LGBTQ Workers Center, National Women’s
Law Center, National Working Positive Coa-
lition, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social
Justice, New York City Anti-Violence
Project, Oasis Legal Services, Open Health
Care Clinic, Oxfam America, PathWays PA,
People For the American Way, PFLAG Na-
tional, Positive Women’s Network-USA, Poz
Military Veterans USA INTL, Pride at Work.
PROMO, Reframe Health and Justice, Sex-
uality Information and Education Council of
the United States (SIECUS), Shelter Re-
sources, Inc., Shriver Center on Poverty
Law, Silver State Equality-Nevada, South-
erners On New Ground, The DC Center for
the LGBT Community, The National LGBTQ
Workers Center, The Well Project, Thrive
Alabama, TRANScending Barriers,
Transgender Law Center, Treatment Action
Group (TAG), UCHAPS, United States Peo-
ple Living with HIV Caucus, United We
Dream, US People Living with HIV Caucus,
Voices for Progress, Workplace Fairness.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I, first, just want to remark that—I
think, the last 11 months are the last
figures I saw—over the last 11 months
wage growth in this country has in-
creased more than at any time in re-
cent memory.
Wage growth is a lagging indicator,
but it is happening, and that is a good
thing, and we should celebrate that.
There would be no reason to put the
brakes on that that I can see.
I think we should be encouraged that
that is happening, and I don’t think we
should be doing things to the economy
that would be detrimental and reverse
that trend.
But let me just say at this point, if
we defeat the previous question, Re-
publicans will amend the rule to imme-
diately bring up H.R. 748, the Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act,
or Cadillac Tax Repeal Act, and include
the text of H.R. 1398, the Health Insur-
ance Tax Relief Act, and H.R. 2207, the
Protect Medical Innovation Act, or the
medical device tax repeal.
Legislation in previous Congresses to
repeal the Cadillac tax has gathered
strong support and brought employers
and labor unions together in their ef-
forts to eliminate this tax.
Since the Cadillac tax is calculated
only based on insurance premiums, it
could unfairly target those already
struggling with higher healthcare costs
and affect middle-income workers, in-
cluding teachers and nurses, due to the
continuing rise of health insurance
costs.
H.R. 748 would repeal this tax in its
entirety.
I would also like to note my support
for the repeal of the medical device tax
and to delay the health insurance tax.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Indi-
ana (Mrs. WALORSKI), my good friend.
b 1300
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to vote
down the previous question.
If we defeat the previous question,
Republicans will amend the rule to in-
clude the repeal of the medical device
tax and the health insurance tax as
part of H.R. 748, the Middle Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019.
H.R. 748 is an important piece of leg-
islation that would permanently repeal
ObamaCare’s 40 percent tax on em-
ployer-provided health insurance, com-
monly referred to as the Cadillac tax.
Ending the Cadillac tax will provide
important relief to both employers and
employees and ensure employers can
remain leaders in utilizing new tech-
nologies to reduce healthcare costs and
ensure better patient outcomes.
However, this bill doesn’t include re-
pealing other burdensome taxes, like
the medical device tax and the health
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.029 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5932 July 17, 2019
insurance tax. We all know that Ameri-
cans are facing rising costs and fewer
healthcare options. Raising taxes on
health coverage would only make mat-
ters worse for families, small busi-
nesses, and Medicare Advantage enroll-
ees. That is why we should also include
a bipartisan provision to provide sen-
iors relief from the burdensome health
insurance tax.
Hoosiers are proud to be leaders in
medical innovation, with more than 300
medical device manufacturers in my
State that support nearly 55,000 good-
paying jobs. However, after
ObamaCare’s medical device tax took
effect, the medical technology industry
lost almost 29,000 jobs nationwide from
2012 to 2015, according to the Commerce
Department’s data.
Medical devices have changed the
way we think about healthcare. New
technologies diagnose illnesses earlier,
lowering the impact of care on a per-
son’s daily life. All these notable gains
will be wiped out if the medical device
tax is reinstated. By defeating the pre-
vious question, we can repeal this job-
killing tax as well.
It is critical that we repeal all three
of these burdensome taxes before they
go back into effect. Doing so will help
lower premiums, improve access to
care, and boost American manufac-
turing jobs.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote against the previous question.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to insert the text
of my amendment in the RECORD, along
with extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, although the gentle-
woman from Indiana (Mrs. WALORSKI)
did not actually talk about the min-
imum wage increase which is before us,
I do note that about 40 percent of the
workers in her district would be af-
fected by this, with annual average
raises of $3,200 a year.
Before I just make a couple of other
points, Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following letters: The first
letter is from the Service Employees
International Union, SEIU, and the
second is from the Communications
Workers of America, both sharing over-
whelming support for H.R. 582, the
Raise the Wage Act.
SEIU,
Washington, DC, July 16, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
two million members of the Service Employ-
ees International Union (‘‘SEIU’’), I write to
urge you to vote YES on H.R. 582, the Raise
the Wage Act of 2019, and oppose any Repub-
lican Motion to Recommit. For years, work-
ing people and allies have taken to the
streets to call for a $15 an hour minimum
wage and to have their voices heard in the
workplace. By ensuring a path to $15 in every
part of our country, Congress will make sure
that everyone—no matter where they are
from or what the color of their skin is—is
closer to having what they need to get by.
This is one of the most important changes
we can make in this country. Airport work-
ers, home care workers, child care providers,
and all SEIU members are proud to stand
with the Fight for $15 and a Union and sup-
port this legislation.
It has been more than ten years since Con-
gress raised the federal minimum wage—the
longest stretch in history. While wealthy
corporations have been handed tax cut after
tax cut, working families have been forced to
scrape by with less than they need. As a re-
sult, one in nine of our nation’s full-time
workers struggle to support themselves and
their families on wages that leave them in
poverty. There is currently no place in
America where a full-time worker making
the federal minimum wage can afford the
basic essentials.
A $15 federal minimum wage would be life-
changing for tens of millions of working
families, lifting an estimated 1.3 million
Americans out of poverty, and helping to
create an economy that works for everyone,
not just the wealthy few. It is no surprise
that poll after poll confirms widespread sup-
port among Americans for this proposal.
The overwhelming share of low-wage earn-
ers would unambiguously benefit from a $15
minimum wage, but enactment of this bill is
particularly critical for women who make up
nearly two-thirds of the workforce earning
the federal minimum wage or just above it,
as well as Latinx and black workers. Cur-
rently, black workers are significantly over-
represented in states where the minimum
wage has stayed at $7.25 an hour. Many of
the same states with low minimum wages
also have so-called ‘‘Right-to-Work’’ provi-
sions that weaken collective bargaining and
the voice of working people. These same ju-
risdictions are also places where voting
rights are under attack, Medicaid has not
been expanded, and pre-emption laws block
many localities from raising the minimum
wage. Underpaid people in these regions and
across the country are depending on Con-
gress to take immediate action to raise the
wage.
People like Terrence Wise, a worker at a
McDonald’s in Kansas City, Missouri, have
been on the front lines fighting for a $15/hour
minimum wage knowing it would be trans-
formative for him and his family. In his own
words: ‘‘Just like me, a lot of folks in fast-
food work two or more jobs because pay is so
low. What if every U.S. worker just had to
work one job, and that was enough to make
ends meet? I want to know that when I get
my paycheck, it’ll be enough to pay the rent,
feed my kids and keep the lights on—and
maybe even a little extra, like enough to
take my girls out to ice cream. It’s not a lot
to ask of Congress, and it would change the
lives of millions of workers like me. It would
give us a fair shot at the American dream we
all hear so much about.’’
We urge Congress to heed the call to action
from workers like Terrence Wise, and raise
the wage so that millions of working people
can be paid enough to lead a decent life, pro-
vide for their family and build a better fu-
ture. SEIU strongly urges you to vote for
H.R. 582, and to vote NO on any Republican
Motion to Recommit. We will add votes on
this legislation and the Motion to Recommit
to our legislative scorecard. If you have any
questions, please reach out to Jaya
Chatterjee.
Sincerely,
MARY KAY HENRY,
International President.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA,
July 11, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the of-
ficers and 700,000 members of the Commu-
nications Workers of America (CWA), I am
writing to urge you to vote in favor of H.R.
582, the Raise the Wage Act of 2019, and
against any amendments that undermine the
bill. At a time when wage stagnation and in-
come inequality hold back our families and
our economy, the Raise the Wage Act will
begin to reverse that cycle and raise pay
broadly across the bottom of the workforce.
It’s been a decade since the federal min-
imum wage has increased. Meanwhile, the
cost of living has continually increased for
working Americans. For many Americans,
working 40 hours or more a week is not
enough to support themselves and their fam-
ilies. Airline employees, call center workers,
retail store employees and bank workers are
among those who work full time for some of
the most highly profitable corporations, but
still earn poverty level wages. It’s time for
an economy that works for working families
and especially for the people who work full
time but who earn poverty level wages.
If enacted, the legislation will raise the
federal minimum wage to $8.55 this year and
increase it over the next five years until it
reaches $15 an hour in 2024. Raising the min-
imum wage to $15 an hour will give roughly
40 million workers a pay increase, which is
nearly 30% of the workforce. After 2024, the
minimum wage will adjust each year to keep
pace with growth of inflation. In addition,
the legislation will phase out the submin-
imum wage for tipped workers, individuals
with disabilities and workers younger than
20 years old.
All workers deserve to earn a living wage
so they can live with dignity and respect. It
is time Congress takes action to raise the
wages of these low income workers and en-
sure the economy works for everyone, in-
stead of those in the 1%. Therefore, I urge
you to support H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage
Act of 2019. CWA will include votes on this
bill and any amendments that would under-
mine the bill in our Congressional Scorecard.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
SHANE LARSON,
Director of Legislative,
Political and Inter-
national Affairs,
Communications
Workers of America
(CWA).
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD letters from the
American Association of University
Women, the Patriotic Millionaires, the
National Education Association, and
the NAACP, all in support of H.R. 582.
AAUW,
July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
more than 170,000 bipartisan members and
supporters of the American Association of
University Women (AAUW), I urge you to
vote for the Raise the Wage Act (H.R. 582)
when it comes to the House floor for a vote
and oppose any harmful amendments and
any possible motion to recommit. The Raise
the Wage Act (H.R. 582) is critical legislation
which would gradually increase the federal
minimum wage from $7.25 to $15 per hour and
then require that the minimum wage in-
crease be based on changes in the median
wage. It would also eliminate the tipped
minimum wage and prohibit the use of sub-
minimum wages for employees with disabil-
ities.
Today, millions of women live in poverty
because our federal minimum wage is inad-
equate for ensuring the economic well-being
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.031 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5933
July 17, 2019
of workers and their families. The federal
minimum wage is currently only $7.25 per
hour and just $2.13 per hour for tipped work-
ers. Women comprise a majority of the low-
wage workforce, and African American
women and Latinas are significantly over-
represented in the low-wage workforce. Near-
ly two-thirds of minimum wage workers in
the United States are women, as well as two-
thirds of workers in tipped jobs. Some work-
ers with disabilities are paid a subminimum
wage through certificates issued by the De-
partment of Labor. This is not even close to
a living wage, which is necessary to lift
workers out of poverty. A woman with two
children working full-time at minimum wage
earns a yearly salary of $14,500, $5,000 below
the poverty line.
Congress must take action to increase the
minimum wage by passing the Raise Wage
Act of 2019 (H.R. 582). If enacted, this legisla-
tion would raise the federal minimum wage
to $8.55 this year and increase it over the
next several years until it reaches $15 an
hour, phase out the outdated subminimum
wage for tipped workers, and also sunset the
ability of employers to pay workers with dis-
abilities a subminimum wage.
Women’s overrepresentation in low-wage
jobs is a significant factor contributing to
the gender pay gap. Currently, women work-
ing full-time, year-round are typically being
paid only 80 cents for every dollar paid to
men. The pay gaps have grown even wider for
women of color. African American women
and Latinas make, respectively, 61 and 53
cents on the dollar as compared to non-His-
panic, white men. Women make up nearly 58
percent of the workers who would benefit
from a $15 minimum wage, making this bill
instrumental for helping to close the gender
wage gap. According to recent estimates
from the Economic Policy Institute, increas-
ing the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024
would give more than 31 percent of all work-
ing women a raise, including 41 percent of
African American working women, 38 per-
cent of working Latinas, 29 percent of white
working women, and 18 percent of Asian
working women. Even the Congressional
Budget Office’s analysis of the impact of the
bill shows that workers overall will be better
off and have higher annual earnings on aver-
age.
Raising the minimum wage is one action
that Congress should take to ensure the eco-
nomic security of families across the coun-
try. I urge you to vote for the Raise the
Wage Act (H.R. 582) when it comes to the
House floor for a vote and oppose any harm-
ful amendments and any possible motion to
recommit. Cosponsorship and votes associ-
ated with this bill may be scored in the
AAUW Action Fund Congressional Voting
Record for the 116th Congress. Please do not
hesitate to contact me or Anne Hedgepeth,
Director of Federal Policy, if you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
DEBORAH J. VAGINS,
Senior Vice President,
Public Policy and Research.
PATRIOTIC MILLIONAIRES,
July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: I am writing on be-
half of the Patriotic Millionaires organiza-
tion to urge you to support the Raise the
Wage Act (H.R 582). Our members are deeply
committed to raising the federal minimum
wage to $15 an hour, and we hope that you
will take this opportunity to show your com-
mitment to ensuring that all working Amer-
icans are able to afford their basic needs.
We understand that you may have some
hesitations about supporting the bill, but I
believe that this letter should adequately ad-
dress those concerns.
While we understand that legislation is al-
ways changeable until it is voted on, for us
this policy has a few ‘‘red lines’’ as follows:
$15 per hour by 2024
One Fair Wage (no sub-minimum for tipped
workers or anyone else)
Indexing
‘‘No’’ on the vote to recommit
Within that framework, we will gladly sup-
port whatever piece of legislation you all de-
cide to advance.
Our members believe that current levels of
economic inequality pose an existential
threat to the nation, and that wealthy Amer-
icans have an inescapable responsibility to
engage in the fight for an inclusive economy.
That is why we were such an early adopter of
the $15 wage, first endorsing it in 2013. We
will fight urgently and publicly for this crit-
ical policy until it becomes law. Once the
House passes the bill, we will formally
launch a robust public education and advo-
cacy campaign that will continue through
next year and into the 117th Congress.
As business leaders and investors, our
members are well acquainted with building
profitable business models and plan to spend
quite a bit of our public education efforts on
outreach to the business community, par-
ticularly owners of small and medium sized
companies. A few thoughts to share with
business owners in your district:
First, because every business in the coun-
try will be required to raise wages, no estab-
lishment will gain or lose a competitive ad-
vantage based on wages as the cost ‘‘input’’
will change at the same rate for each of
them simultaneously.
From a macroeconomic point of view, 70%
of the American economy is based on con-
sumer demand. It is only logical that putting
more money in the hands of more consumers
will be a net positive to the economy. Pic-
ture a bar on a Saturday night filled with pa-
trons. Should the owner of the bar be more
concerned about how much money all of
those potential customers have to spend, or
the higher wage he is paying the single bar-
tender who is serving them? It’s simple
math.
And to the small (but very vocal) group of
business owners who insist their businesses
will go under if they are required to pay a
living wage, we have a simple message. If
you cannot afford to pay someone a livable
wage, you cannot afford to hire an employee.
You may have concerns that a higher min-
imum wage will lead to greater automation.
To that, we say that automation is coming
no matter what—in fact it is already here—
and rather than speeding that inevitable
process, a livable minimum wage will ensure
that the jobs that cannot be automated pay
enough. The fact is that companies will
automate to the extent that they believe the
capital outlay of automation will be offset
by higher future profits. In that sense, as
technology advances, automation is inevi-
table regardless of the minimum wage.
If you’ve been in a McDonald’s recently,
you’ve likely seen that truth in action.
McDonald’s pays many of its workers min-
imum wage, yet it has already heavily in-
vested in automation technologies. Raising
the minimum wage will not speed up auto-
mation, but will instead ensure that as the
process unfolds, people who are working will
be stable enough (because of the higher
wages) to have the time and energy to do the
extra education or training necessary for
other positions.
There is real urgency to our efforts on this
policy. June 16th marked the longest period
in American history—since the minimum
wage was first implemented in 1938—that the
federal minimum wage has not been raised
by Congress, just shy of a decade. Because
the wage was not indexed, that means we’ve
spent nearly ten years where each passing
day marks another decrease in the pur-
chasing power of millions of working Ameri-
cans, adding up to the wage being worth
nearly 15% less than it was in 2009.
Every day that Congress does not act is an-
other day where millions of paychecks de-
cline in real value. Clearly it is time to act.
Unfortunately in the political dynamic we
are currently suffering under, bipartisan ac-
tion is difficult to come by (despite the bi-
partisan popularity of this issue). The only
way to force the Senate to act is for the
House to act first, and to act decisively.
Keep in mind, this issue polls incredibly
well, with 83% of registered voters believing
we need to raise the minimum wage, and 55%
of registered voters, including 53% of inde-
pendents and 37% of Republicans, supporting
a $15 federal minimum wage.
Senators MITCH MCCONNELL and ALEX-
ANDER LAMAR clearly have no interest in
passing a minimum wage bill. To force their
hand, we need to change the perceived con-
sequences of their inaction by pushing this
issue into the public debate and keeping it
there.
To be clear, the choice is not between this
bill and some other more perfect bill, the
choice is between this bill and no bill. While
there is another minimum wage bill that has
generated support, it will not reach the
threshold of support required to pass. Nor
should it. With all due respect to Third Way
and other ‘‘centrist’’ think tanks, the so-
called regional approach will not solve the
problem.
First, there already is a regional approach
to this issue in that states and localities are
reasonably free to set wages higher than the
federal wage if their economies and politics
support it. The purpose of federal legislation
is to set a floor for the entire country, to en-
sure that at a minimum everyone is ok. That
floor for everyone should be $15. A study by
the Economic Policy Institute shows that by
2024, there will be no county in the country
where a person can support themselves on
less than $15 an hour.
In terms of expecting different things from
different localities, $15 is already not enough
in several areas of the country, but we are
not demanding $25 or $30 an hour in these
areas. To say that $15 is ‘‘too much’’ in some
places while not being equally as concerned
that $15 is ‘‘far from enough’’ in many others
challenges the credibility of the argument.
Furthermore, the regional approach puts
the $15 figure for rural counties off to 2033.
Frankly, a 14 year timeline is absurd on its
face.
Lawmakers in the House have a simple
choice to make—do something, or do noth-
ing. Move the minimum wage to $15 an hour,
or keep it at $7.25. The Raise the Wage Act
has 203 voting cosponsors, and needs 218
votes to pass the House. This simple policy
will help stabilize the economic lives of 40%
of working people. And it is supported by a
bipartisan majority of Americans. This is a
no-brainer.
We recognize that you might disagree with
our assessment, that there might be other
approaches you think are more appropriate.
But as I stated before, the choice before you
is this bill or no bill. You might not believe
that $15 an hour for the entire country is the
best option, but surely you must see that it’s
better than $7.25 an hour. We’ve reached a
critical point where inaction is simply no
longer an option.
The Patriotic Millionaires believe that a
fair minimum wage is a fundamental build-
ing block of an economy that works for all
Americans, not just the ultra-wealthy. We
also believe that every member of Congress
who stands with working Americans will ul-
timately recognize the importance of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.004 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5934 July 17, 2019
bill, and will vote to support it. We hope that
you will be one of them.
Thank you so much.
MORRIS PEARL,
Chair.
NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION,
July 11, 2019.
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of our 3
million members and the 50 million students
they serve, I urge you to VOTE YES on H.R.
582, the Raise the Wage Act. Votes on this
issue may be included in NEA’s Report Card
for the 116th Congress.
This legislation will benefit working peo-
ple across our nation, including NEA’s edu-
cation support professionals—the school bus
drivers, cafeteria workers, custodians, and
other members of school communities who
are the first ones to arrive in the morning,
and the last to go home at night. Their work
is tremendously valuable, and the support
they provide students often goes well beyond
their job titles. Yet, they struggle to make
ends meet.
The Raise the Wage Act would:
∑ benefit all low-wage earners, not just
teenagers or restaurant workers;
∑ benefit nearly one-third of manufac-
turing workers, one-fourth of health care
workers, one-fifth of construction workers,
and one-sixth of educators;
∑ reduce poverty and income inequality by
raising the total annual income of the low-
est-paid workers; and
∑ help to close racial earnings gaps.
As you know, the federal minimum wage
has not increased since 2009. During that dec-
ade, many working families have lost
ground, and lost hope. Several states have
raised their minimum wages in the past 10
years, but it is time for the federal govern-
ment to act. Doing so will improve the cir-
cumstances not only for the workers them-
selves, but for their family members and
communities. Please VOTE YES and Raise
the Wage.
Sincerely,
MARC EGAN,
Director of Government Relations,
National Education Association.
NAACP WASHINGTON BUREAU,
July 8, 2019.
Re: NAACP strong support for H.R. 582, the
Raise the Wage Act
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
NAACP, our nation’s oldest, largest and
most widely-recognized grassroots-based
civil rights organization, urge you to vote
for and support through passage H.R. 582, the
Raise the Wage Act. People of color, women,
families and too many others have been left
behind by our economy and our policies far
too often, for far too long. Adopting the
Raise the Wage Act would mark a crucial
step toward ensuring we can all work to-
wards greater equity, dignity, and a living
wage.
The Raise the Wage Act will make signifi-
cant contributions in the economic security
of millions of American women, men, and
families by raising the federal minimum
wage from $7.25 to $15 an hour by 2024, then
indexing it so that it continues to rise along
with wages overall. H.R. 582 will also end un-
fair current exclusions for tipped workers,
people with disabilities, and youth so that
they too, can benefit from a decent min-
imum wage.
The NAACP has a long and strong history
of supporting federal laws that improved the
lives of hard working Americans, and ensur-
ing that all people are covered. From the
Fair Labor Standards Act to the very first
federal minimum wage bill in 1938, we were
active supporters of a fair day’s wage for a
hard day’s labor. We continue to advocate
for an increase in the buying power of the
minimum wage to keep up with the cost of
living in the United States, and that min-
imum wage earners, who by definition are
working men and women, are able to keep
their families out of poverty.
Thank you for your consideration of our
position; the NAACP is proud to endorse
H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act. Should you
have any questions or comments, please do
not hesitate to contact me.
Sincerely,
HILARY O. SHELTON,
Director, NAACP Washington Bureau &
Senior Vice President for Policy and Advocacy
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, one ad-
ditional point that I wanted to make
listening to my friend and colleague
who talks about, during the last sev-
eral years, the income and the wages of
the lowest earning Americans have
gone up. I do note with some irony that
the reason for that, largely, is due to
the increases in the minimum wage at
the State levels: California, New York,
many places around the country, Mis-
souri. The list goes on and on.
About half of the States in the
United States have now raised the min-
imum wage beyond the Federal num-
ber. That is the signal significant rea-
son for wage rates going up for the low-
est earning Americans. That is exactly
the point of doing this, so that all
Americans at the lowest end of the eco-
nomic scale, the lowest wage earners,
will see a significant increase in their
earning power.
That will expand further the number
of people at the lowest end in terms of
increases in their wages. That will ben-
efit their families—those families ben-
efit—and make stronger neighborhoods
and stronger communities and, ulti-
mately, a stronger nation. That is why
this needs to get done.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS)
pointing that out because I think it
helps make our case.
Mr. Speaker, can I ask the gentleman
whether he is prepared to close.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I am
prepared to close.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, with this
bill, the Democrats seek to increase
wages for millions of low wage earners,
but the Congressional Budget Office es-
timates that it will also result in near-
ly 4 million lost jobs. These job losses
will disproportionately impact entry-
level workers and students.
That is why I offered an amendment
to allow a market-based entry-level
wage for workers with less than a year
of experience, but Democrats on the
Committee on Rules rejected that
amendment during the Rules meeting.
There was no reason not to make the
amendment in order; they just rejected
it.
A $15 Federal minimum wage is a
one-size-fits-all Federal mandate that
does not consider differences in cost of
living or employment patterns across
the country.
Federal assistance is meant to be a
temporary hand up to aid individuals
on the path to a better economic fu-
ture, but rather than pulling people up,
this bill will leave more Americans
reaching for assistance.
Republican concerns with this bill
are not partisan; they are American.
If the majority is serious about in-
creasing the wages of all Americans
throughout the country, they should
work—they should work—in a bipar-
tisan manner to draft a bill that has a
chance of passing in the Senate and
making it to the President’s desk. Un-
fortunately, this bill is another par-
tisan political priority that really has
no chance of becoming law.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
the previous question, on the under-
lying measure, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the oppor-
tunity to spend some time on the floor
with my distinguished colleague from
Texas, though we disagree strongly
about this.
I would just once again reiterate that
the CBO estimate on this is nowhere
near 4 million jobs lost. That is not
mentioned anywhere in the CBO re-
port. It talks about a range from zero
to 3.7 million. The median is 1.3 mil-
lion.
But, again, this is as much a question
of values and what we stand for and a
moral imperative as it is for statistics,
because the statistics would argue for
it.
1.3 million Americans would be lifted
out of poverty the moment we pass this
and this becomes law. Nearly 30 million
Americans would see their annual wage
increased, in some cases dramatically.
And this, as I indicated earlier,
makes certain that, as a matter of pub-
lic policy, we make certain that there
is no erosion of the purchasing power
of the minimum wage because of the
indexing on this.
I really feel, Mr. Speaker, that those
are the statistics that we ought to be
mindful of, not just the worst possible,
which is overstated by my colleague
and friend.
There should be, Mr. Speaker, no
place in this great Nation where a min-
imum wage employee working full-
time cannot afford the basic essentials.
The work we are doing here today
does not dictate a one-size-fits-all
model for every State. It simply cre-
ates a floor, but a floor that is impor-
tant, a Federal standard that says, if
you work full-time in this country, if
you put in the effort to earn for your-
self and your family, you will achieve,
at a minimum, a wage that lets you af-
ford the basic necessities of life.
I believe this bill is just; I believe it
is moral; I believe it is long overdue;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.011 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5935
July 17, 2019
and I look forward to supporting its
passage.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
my colleagues for their words of sup-
port for H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage
Act. I would especially like to thank
Chairman SCOTT for his leadership and
his commitment to this effort, and
Chairman MCGOVERN of the Rules Com-
mittee for his work to move this sig-
nificant legislation to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule; I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the pre-
vious question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. BURGESS is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
Sec. 2. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the bill (H.R.
748) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost em-
ployer-sponsored health coverage. All points
of order against consideration of the bill are
waived. An amendment in the nature of a
substitute consisting of the texts of H.R. 748,
H.R. 1398, and H.R. 2207, each as introduced,
shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as
amended, shall be considered as read. All
points of order against provisions in the bill,
as amended, are waived. The previous ques-
tion shall be considered as ordered on the
bill, as amended, and on any further amend-
ment thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except: (1) one hour of debate
equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means; and (2) one mo-
tion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions.
Sec. 3. Clause l(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 748.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, July l7, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
July 17, 2019, at 11:33 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 375.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
COMMUNICATION FROM DISTRICT
DIRECTOR, THE HONORABLE
CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS,
MEMBER OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from Traci Couture, District
Director, the Honorable CATHY MCMOR-
RIS RODGERS, Member of Congress:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
July 8, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, that
I, Traci Couture, have been served with a
subpoena for testimony in a criminal trial
issued by the United States District Court
for the Western District of New York.
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I have determined that compli-
ance with the subpoena is consistent with
the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
TRACI COUTURE,
District Director.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM LEGISLA-
TIVE AIDE, THE HONORABLE
STEVE SCALISE, MEMBER OF
CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from Fred Trowbridge, Legis-
lative Aide, the Honorable STEVE SCA-
LISE, Member of Congress:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, July 16, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, that
I, Fred Trowbridge, have been served with a
subpoena for testimony in a criminal trial
issued by the United States District Court
for the Western District of New York. This
criminal trial is in relation to alleged
threats made against Congressman Steve
Scalise and his family, received through
Congressman Scalise’s official government
office.
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I have determined that compli-
ance with the subpoena is consistent with
the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
FRED TROWBRIDGE,
Legislative Aide.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED TRANSFER TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA OF CER-
TAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES AND
SERVICES
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to section 3 of House Resolution 491, I
call up the joint resolution (S.J. Res.
36) providing for congressional dis-
approval of the proposed transfer to
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of
Spain, and the Italian Republic of cer-
tain defense articles and services, and
ask for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 491, the joint
resolution is considered read.
The text of the joint resolution is as
follows:
S.J. RES. 36
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the issuance of a
manufacturing license, technical assistance
license, or export license with respect to any
of the following proposed agreements or
transfers to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and
the Italian Republic is prohibited:
(1) The transfer of the following defense ar-
ticles, including defense services and tech-
nical data, described in Executive Commu-
nication 1427 (EC–1427) submitted to Con-
gress pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of
section 36 of the Arms Export Control Act (22
U.S.C. 2776) and published in the Congres-
sional Record on June 3, 2019:
(A) Coproduction and manufacture in
Saudi Arabia of Paveway Pre-Amp Circuit
Card Assemblies (CCA), Guidance Elec-
tronics Assembly (GEA) CCAs, and Control
Actuator System (CAS) CCAs for all
Paveway variants.
(B) Coproduction and manufacture in
Saudi Arabia of Paveway II Guidance Elec-
tronics Detector Assemblies (GEDA) and
Computer Control Groups (CCG).
(C) The transfer of up to 64,603 additional
kits, partial kits, and full-up-rounds.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL)
and the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
MCCAUL) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include in
the RECORD extraneous material on the
measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the three measures the
House will now consider are extraor-
dinary, extraordinary but necessary,
because they respond to what I view as
an extraordinary abuse of power by the
Trump administration, using a phony
emergency to override the authority of
Congress and push through $8 billion in
arms sales.
Each of these resolutions would pro-
hibit a specific license for the export of
precision-guided munitions, or smart
bombs, and related components. We are
focusing on these three licenses be-
cause the weapons would be the first
ones shipped.
Mr. Speaker, it is no secret that Con-
gress has serious concerns about the
Saudi-led coalition’s war in Yemen.
The Saudis and their partners and, for
that matter, the United States do have
legitimate security concerns about the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.033 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5936 July 17, 2019
efforts of Iran and its proxies to desta-
bilize the Gulf region.
But as this war has dragged on, it has
become clear that the coalition has
carried out its campaign with little re-
gard for innocent life: schoolbuses full
of children destroyed in a fiery flash,
weddings and funerals incinerated with
no warning, civilian buildings and com-
munities targeted.
Reckless doesn’t begin to describe it.
It is gruesome. It has contributed to
the worst humanitarian crisis in the
world.
b 1315
To make matters worse, many of the
weapons used in this carnage were
built in America, sold by American
companies to the Saudis and their
partners.
Starting in the last Congress, when
the administration told us they were
planning to go ahead with another
massive sale of offensive weapons to
the Saudis and Emiratis, Senator
MENENDEZ and I used the tools at our
disposal to place informal holds on
these transfers. We hoped that the ad-
ministration would work with us and
dial up pressure on these nations to
start acting responsibly.
Now, the administration has com-
plained that we stopped these sales
from going through for months and
months. But, as I said, this was an in-
formal mechanism. The law—and I em-
phasize it is the law—says that, at any
point, if an administration wants to go
ahead with a weapons sale, it has to
send a formal notification to Congress.
That starts a 30-day clock. During that
time, Congress can vote to stop a weap-
ons sale.
Did the administration stop us to try
to find a way forward? No.
Did they send a formal notification,
starting the process laid out in the law
under which Congress can legislatively
block the sale? No.
What did they do? They dug up an ob-
scure provision of the arms export law
and declared an emergency to justify
moving ahead with these sales.
What does that mean? It means, they
went around Congress. It means, they
went around the law.
Now, the emergency provision exists
in law for a good reason. And if there
were a real emergency—if the United
States or our citizens or our allies were
in immediate danger—we wouldn’t be
standing here today. There would be no
objection.
But here is the thing, Mr. Speaker.
There is no emergency.
Do you know how I know? I know be-
cause nearly 2 months down the line,
not a single weapon has been shipped.
Most of the weapons haven’t even been
built. In fact, one of the phony emer-
gency declarations lets the Saudis
build new facilities to manufacture
weapons in their country, which I only
presume would mean the Americans
currently building these weapons in
the United States would be out of a
job.
That is right. Donald Trump declared
an emergency to move jobs out of the
United States—good manufacturing
jobs, the kind Americans fight for. He
abused the law to send them abroad.
What kind of emergency requires
weapons that will be built months and
months down the road? Or requires
building a new factory on foreign soil?
Especially when the law only gives
Congress a 30-day review period.
The answer is clear, Mr. Speaker: a
phony emergency. An emergency de-
signed to make yet another end run
around Congress, to undermine the sep-
aration of powers, to trample on this
body’s constitutional duties.
I am sick and tired of it, Mr. Speak-
er.
The State Department sent an assist-
ant secretary up to the Hill to testify
about this fiasco. He told us in the For-
eign Affairs Committee that the ad-
ministration took this brazen action
out of respect for Congress’ oversight
role. Mr. Speaker, that is really, really
hard to believe.
The other body passed 22 bipartisan
resolutions stopping all these sales
from going forward. The three meas-
ures we are considering today deal with
weapons that are already manufac-
tured, sitting in a warehouse, and, if
we don’t act, will be loaded onto a ship
and sent to Saudi Arabia and the UAE
within the next 2 months.
This resolution would prohibit the
use of an emergency declaration to
move ahead with the transfer of 64,000
Paveway precision-guided munitions,
or, as we call them, smart bombs.
Sixty-four thousand, Mr. Speaker,
which would be added to the stockpile
of 58,000 the Saudis previously pur-
chased starting in 2015.
What will all these weapons be used
for? No one knows.
If the administration wants to sell
these weapons, they should follow the
law, not misuse it, and they should
come to Congress for its approval.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to this dangerous resolution.
Right now, as I speak, Iran is stretch-
ing its tentacles of terror across the
Middle East.
By aiding the Houthis in Yemen,
arming Hezbollah and Lebanon, and
supporting the Shiite militias in Iraq
and Syria, Iran is creating a Shia Cres-
cent that can dominate the region.
Their goal is to build a strategic land
bridge from Tehran to the Mediterra-
nean Sea. If we allow them to succeed,
terrorism will flourish, instability will
reign, and the security of our allies,
like Israel, will be threatened.
One of the ways we can push back
against Iran’s murderous aggression is
by empowering our partners in the re-
gion. Unfortunately, this irresponsible
resolution handcuffs our ability to do
so.
Specifically, this legislation would
prohibit an export license and stop the
United States from providing our part-
ners with the arms that they need to
defend themselves. This particular li-
cense first came before members of the
Foreign Affairs Committee in January
of 2018. When I became the lead Repub-
lican in January of 2019, I reviewed this
case and maintained the informal ap-
proval granted by my predecessor,
Chairman Royce.
The administration has been criti-
cized for bypassing Congress to push
these sales through. But the Demo-
crats, in fairness, placed informal holds
on the sale for more than 13 months, a
total of 407 days, which I believe abuses
the process that we have in place in
Congress.
During that time, the State Depart-
ment continued to pursue this case
with Congress. They also sent forward
additional cases to help support the
Saudis, the UAE, and Jordan. And, by
the time the State Department sub-
mits such cases to Congress, they have
already undergone a thorough inter-
agency review process.
This important process ensures com-
pliance with the President’s conven-
tional arms transfer policy intended to
support our partners and strengthen
our national security. Other critics are
worried that these weapons will in-
crease civilian casualties in Yemen.
However, the precision-guided muni-
tions that we were trying to send to
the Saudis will actually lower the risk
of civilian casualties in Yemen as it
counters attacks from Iranian-backed
Houthis.
Now is not the time to deny our part-
ners what they need for their defense.
Nor is it time to hold precision-guided
munitions that could minimize the risk
to civilians.
Recently, after Iran attacked civilian
ships and shot down drones—a U.S.
military asset—the President brought
together a bipartisan group of congres-
sional leaders, including the chairman
and myself, to discuss an appropriate
response. He listened to our advice and
made a prudent decision to exercise re-
straint.
The President has made it explicitly
clear the United States is not looking
for war. The decision to move forward
with these arms sales is part of a larger
effort to deter Iran. A key part of that
effort is to empower greater burden
sharing by enhancing the defense capa-
bilities of our allies. These sales pro-
vide more options for deterring Iran
that do not all depend on U.S. inter-
vention.
I support these sales, even though I
do not think that all 22 required emer-
gency certification—this is a point the
chairman and I actually agree on—es-
pecially those that will not be ready
for delivery until later this year. I sup-
port revising the law with Chairman
ENGEL to ensure and enhance the role
of Congress in future emergency sales.
I thank the chairman for his bipar-
tisan work with me on that amend-
ment to the NDAA that was passed by
a wide margin.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.039 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5937
July 17, 2019
But I do oppose relitigating prior,
lawful sales to partners who face grow-
ing threats to their security, which is
what today’s resolutions attempt to
do.
Mr. Speaker, we face many dynamic
challenges. Iran threatens the Middle
East, it continues to pursue the eradi-
cation of Israel, and it remains the
number one state sponsor of terrorism
around the world. That threat is grow-
ing, not waning. For that reason, I be-
lieve that Members should oppose to-
day’s resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 21⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. CICILLINE).
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support S.J.
Res. 36 and the other measures related
to arms sales being considered this
afternoon, which will prevent three
sets of arms sales to Saudi Arabia and
the UAE without undergoing the prop-
er congressional notification process.
We are here today because rather
than come and make their case to Con-
gress, the administration invented a
phony emergency to bypass the legal
process for approving arms sales. There
is no justification for this decision,
other than the administration knew
that these sales would be met with
scrutiny from Congress and didn’t want
to deal with it.
Well, they were right. Congress is
concerned about these proposed sales,
and we should not sit back and allow
the administration to continue with
the charade of claiming an emergency
exemption for them. I am glad that
these measures of disapproval have bi-
partisan support and have already
passed the Republican-led Senate. I
urge all of my colleagues to support
them today.
The administration briefed this body
on Iran just days before the supposed
emergency was declared and never
mentioned an emergency. We are sup-
posed to believe that, within a matter
of days, the situation escalated so
quickly that they were forced to by-
pass Congress. Most of the weapons in-
cluded in the emergency sales are of-
fensive weapons, and much of the sale
will be delivered months or years from
now, further evidence that no emer-
gency exists.
The egregious and legally question-
able move to put more weapons into
the hands of regimes who are respon-
sible for perpetrating horrific civilian
casualties in Yemen comes as no sur-
prise from an administration that has
cozied up to the Saudi Crown Prince,
even as we have credible evidence that
he and his government are responsible
for the cold-blooded murder of an
American resident and journalist.
Just because you don’t like the proc-
ess doesn’t mean you get to ignore it.
This action has implications far be-
yond the current sale. If Congress
doesn’t reassert our proper role in the
process, we risk giving up the author-
ity in the arms sale process entirely.
This isn’t and shouldn’t be a partisan
issue. It is our job, as Congress, to rep-
resent the American people in matters
of war. If we let this action go without
a strong congressional response, the re-
percussions will be wide-ranging and
longstanding.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support these resolutions of dis-
approval and block these arms sales
once and for all.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from West
Virginia (Mrs. MILLER).
Mrs. MILLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak in opposition to S.J.
Res. 36. This legislation is bad policy
and it sets a bad precedent.
Today, Congress is attempting to
block legal U.S. arms sales to strategic
partners who face increased threats
from Iran and terrorist proxies.
The administration is ensuring that
our allies in the Middle East have the
capabilities to defend themselves and
protect the hundreds of thousands of
Americans who live and work in the
Gulf states. These allies depend on
military equipment from the U.S. to
hold the line against Iran, al-Qaida,
ISIS, and other threats. If we don’t
supply it, they will buy it elsewhere.
Russian arms dealers are already
seeking to exploit the reluctance. At
this point in history, we need to do
what we can to decrease Iran’s influ-
ence in the region.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote against the resolution.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Ms. SPANBERGER).
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in support of S.J. Res. 36, a joint
resolution which I am leading in the
House.
The evidence is clear: the Saudi Gov-
ernment continues to disregard the
vital distinction between combatants
and innocent civilians in Yemen.
In February, Congress voted to end
U.S. support to the Saudi-led campaign
against the Houthis that have left
thousands of civilians dead and created
one of the largest humanitarian crises
in modern times.
However, the President not only ve-
toed a resolution, but the administra-
tion is now ramping up support for
Saudi Arabia’s offensive actions in
Yemen, while simultaneously esca-
lating tensions with Iran.
As I made clear during Foreign Af-
fairs Committee hearings in May, not
only is the administration trying to
sell the Saudis more powerful weapons,
but we are giving them the opportunity
to build their own. With this latest
proposal, the administration would be
transferring sensitive technology that
would allow Saudi Arabia to manufac-
ture these high-tech weapons directly.
Congress needs to reassert its author-
ity now as a coequal branch of govern-
ment. This resolution, which I have led
in the House, would make sure that
blatantly offensive weapons aren’t sold
to the Saudi military under the guise
of defensive uses without congressional
review.
I am proud to work with my col-
leagues in the Senate to block the sale
of precision-guided munitions, which
are responsible for some of the most
horrific examples of targeted attacks
against civilians.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to stand up
against this misguided decision, pro-
tect innocent lives, and reassert the
authority of Congress.
b 1330
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I just want to go back
to when we debated the Yemen resolu-
tion, which I thought was, once again,
pro-Iran and pro-Houthi rebel, and
anti-Israel. It is interesting that after
that passed this Chamber, that the
Houthi rebels celebrated a victory in
the Congress, thinking that the Amer-
ican people, through the Congress, ac-
tually supported them.
We have to be responsible in our
rhetoric on this floor and what we
stand for. Many in this body favor ask-
ing our partners around the world to
step up and do more to help protect our
shared interests.
The President has called on other na-
tions to take on the burden of defeat-
ing terrorism in the Middle East and
has commended our partners for their
contributions to regional security.
Sharing this burden of collective secu-
rity interest is really vital to ensuring
the United States is not the only one
bearing the costs in blood and treasure,
for we have borne way too much in the
Middle East.
But these arms sales are where the
rubber hits the road for burden shar-
ing. We cannot ask for partners to take
on additional burdens while with-
holding from them the tools to do so.
We should and do work with our part-
ners to train them to use U.S.-origin
equipment effectively and responsibly.
This is an ongoing process.
My fear is that if we are unwilling to
provide our partners with the means to
ensure their own security and to invest
the resources to turn them into respon-
sible users, then the United States will
find itself as a main guarantor of Mid-
dle East security. We have borne that
burden for the last several decades. We
also need to be wary of our partners
turning to China and Russia for their
defense needs.
Mr. Speaker, it was unfortunate how
the current law, I believe, was utilized
for these 22 sales. That is where Chair-
man ENGEL and I agree. And that is
why we have worked on a bipartisan
basis to refine this process for invoking
an emergency moving forward. We have
the informal congressional review
process to try to resolve concerns re-
garding sales.
But when Members place indefinite
holds on sales and place a stop to our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.041 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5938 July 17, 2019
ability to share burdens with our part-
ners—for 18 months in some cases—it
undermines our entire security strat-
egy and the important bilateral part-
nerships we worked so hard to estab-
lish and grow. For that reason, I oppose
the resolution, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, may I ask
how much time I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York has 1 minute
remaining.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time to close de-
bate on this measure.
I will wrap up quickly, as we have
two more of these measures to con-
sider.
It is important that we pass this
measure now, along with the two we
will soon consider, because these deal
with weapons that could soon be on
their way across the ocean.
I think the Iranian regime is dan-
gerous. I think the Houthis are dan-
gerous. No one is denying the Saudis
the right to go after them. What we are
saying is, don’t go after them and kill
thousands of civilians in the process
with American weapons.
And also, separation of powers, the
President cannot try to get around
Congress with phony emergencies. I
urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 491,
the previous question is ordered on the
joint resolution.
The question is on the third reading
of the joint resolution.
The joint resolution was ordered to
be read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES OF CERTAIN
DEFENSE ARTICLES AND SERV-
ICES
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to section 3 of House Resolution 491, I
call up the joint resolution (S.J. Res.
37) providing for congressional dis-
approval of the proposed export to the
United Arab Emirates, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, and the Republic of France
of certain defense articles and services,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 491, the joint
resolution is considered read.
The text of the joint resolution is as
follows:
S.J. RES. 37
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the issuance of an
export license with respect to any of the fol-
lowing proposed exports to the United Arab
Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Brit-
ain and Northern Ireland, or France is pro-
hibited:
(1) The transfer of the following defense ar-
ticles, including defense services and tech-
nical data, described in Executive Commu-
nication 1425 (EC–1425) submitted to Con-
gress pursuant to section 36(c) of the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776(c)) and
published in the Congressional Record on
June 3, 2019: The proposed transfer of 44,000
GBU–12 Paveway II Kits and the proposed
transfer of 16,000 GBU–10 Paveway II Kits.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL)
and the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
KINZINGER) each will control 10 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include in the
RECORD extraneous materials on the
measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the second resolution
we are debating is very similar to the
first. But in this case, it would nullify
the administration’s phony emergency
being used to transfer 60,000 precision-
guided bombs to the United Arab Emir-
ates. That is on top of the 40,000 we es-
timate the Emiratis already have on
hand.
I won’t rehash the same argument,
but I would like to make a point why,
when we see what is going on in
Yemen, it is so important for the
United States to take a stand.
Mr. Speaker, one of the things the
Foreign Affairs Committee has focused
on this year is trying to put American
values back at the center of our foreign
policy: Democracy, human rights, the
rule of law.
Frankly, this administration has
acted like it cannot be burdened with
these fundamental things that make
America America. It just boggles the
mind that any great country can throw
weight around, but we are not China.
We are not Russia. Our foreign policy
should show the world the character of
our country, our compassion, our belief
that people everywhere should be able
to live prosperously, productively, and
have healthy lives.
These ideas go hand in hand with
promoting our security. We want more
stable, secure countries and commu-
nities. Democratic countries are
stronger partners for the United States
on the world’s stage. And if we are seri-
ous about those values, it means speak-
ing out when we see them trampled,
whether they are trampled by an ad-
versary or by a friend.
When we turn our back on these
ideals; when we strip the word ‘‘democ-
racy’’ out of the State Department’s
mission statement; when we look the
other way when friendly regimes carry
out horrific human rights abuses; when
we slash investments in the diplomacy
and development efforts that help us
build bridges of friendship and under-
standing; when we walk away from all
of that, what signal does it send to the
world?
What does it say about the sort of be-
havior that we are willing to tolerate?
I have supported our partners and our
partnerships in the Gulf region. I think
they are an important counterbalance
to the threat Iran poses, and I recog-
nize that our partners face real threats
from Iranian-backed Houthis who are
themselves guilty of serious human
rights abuses.
But that doesn’t mean we should just
look the other way in the face of vio-
lence and slaughter of civilians per-
petrated by our partners. It doesn’t
mean we look the other way and let
the President ride roughshod over Con-
gress so there is no separation of pow-
ers and whatever the President wants,
he gets, and Congress just
rubberstamps it. It can’t be that way.
So even if this administration will
not stand up for values, the Congress
should, and the Congress will. These
measures, along with much of the For-
eign Affairs Committee’s work this
year, sends a strong message that our
values must guide our foreign policy.
So, again, it is important for us to
help Saudi Arabia. It is important to
realize Iran is making trouble. It is im-
portant to note the Houthis are not
good people. But it doesn’t mean that
we give Saudi Arabia or any other
country a blank check to do whatever
they want, dropping bombs indiscrimi-
nately on school children, on buses. We
can’t just sit idly by and let that hap-
pen and continue to send weapons that
are perpetrating these crimes.
So, this is a strong message, I think,
that our values must guide our foreign
policy, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, just a quick point on
that. We don’t like when innocent peo-
ple are bombed, and when we look at
Yemen, I think it is really incumbent
on us to see what is happening.
A legitimate government in Yemen
was overthrown by Iranian-supported
rebels, and Iran, who has not sent one
dollar of humanitarian aid to support
the people who have been killed. What
we are talking about in this specific
resolution is actually UAE.
So, I rise in opposition to S.J. Res.
37. Since the emergency declaration to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.043 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5939
July 17, 2019
expedite arms sales to the Saudi-led
coalition to defeat the Houthi rebels,
Congress has debated the President’s
exercise of the emergency clause of the
Arms Export Control Act.
This joint resolution of disapproval,
along with 21 other JRDs, intends to
stop transfers to Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates, and Jordan.
S.J. Res. 37 specifically blocks the
transfer of Paveway precision-guided
munitions to the United Arab Emir-
ates. This technology converts dumb
bombs, like the ones used by Russia to
kill innocent men, women, and chil-
dren in Syria, into precision-guided
munitions, ones that are intended to
avoid civilian casualties.
We can debate whether shipments
that aren’t ready to be delivered re-
quire an emergency declaration, but at
the end of the day, some of the muni-
tions that we are discussing today have
already left the shores of the United
States and are en route to the UAE. In
fact, the first tranche is en route now,
and the second tranche will be leaving
in September.
Mr. Speaker, this JRD and the two
up for debate today are not about
timelines for shipment. We have heard
my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle argue that these arms could be
used in Yemen to target civilians. Yet,
there are reports that the UAE has al-
ready withdrawn from Yemen.
The UAE serves as a bulwark against
Iranian aggression, the ongoing threat
of al-Qaida, and other terrorist groups
wishing to harm the United States, our
allies, and our interests.
In contrast, the Iranian-backed
Houthis, through missiles and UAE
strikes, are a threat to stability in the
region. Iran and the forces it supports,
like the Houthis, are a threat to our
national security and the security of
our allies. They are the number one
contributor to human suffering in
Yemen.
We have seen the Iranian regime
threaten international shipping in the
Strait of Hormuz, including ships be-
longing to the U.K., Japan, and Nor-
way. They have shot down an expensive
military asset flying in international
airspace.
Prior to the President’s emergency
declaration, the head of Iran’s Quds
Force called on terror groups to pre-
pare for a proxy war with United
States and our allies. Since then, we
have seen these proxies become
emboldened in their actions. Yet, we
are here today debating arms sales to
the UAE on the basis that these arms
transfers may be used by our strategic
ally in Yemen.
While there is no guarantee that
these weapons will ever be used in
Yemen—will ever not be used in Yemen
either—there are facts that show ex-
actly why we must continue to provide
these arms to the UAE.
As a former Air Force pilot and a
current pilot in the Air National
Guard, I am proud that our government
would not send our Air Force to fly sor-
ties without the munitions needed to
defend themselves. Similarly, we
should not have an ally flying our F–
16s without the necessary tools it needs
to complete its mission.
The Iranians have shown that they
have the capacity and ability to fire
upon military aircraft with no regard
for whether the platform is manned or
unmanned. When our allies are in a
dogfight, we can’t leave them without
the means to defend themselves and
our shared interests.
I also want to point out that there is
a lot of discussion about offensive or
defensive weapons. A bomb can be used
defensively or offensively. I can’t think
of many weapons that are actually de-
fensive in nature because they are used
to destroy an enemy. So it is all about
how you employ that weapon.
Saying that we want to send only de-
fensive weapons, shows our allies to be
weak against an Iran that is shown
that it wants to go on the offensive
continually. I can name basically every
country in the Middle East and show
Iranian influences there.
On the broader picture, we have got
to debate how this went out. I fully
agree with everybody on that. But we
cannot leave our allies in the lurch. We
cannot leave them unprotected because
our big, chief enemy is Iran. I know
there is broad-based agreement on
that, and we cannot show weakness in
the eyes of that.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. CHABOT), a senior member of the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
b 1345
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding and for his
leadership on this and many other
issues.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposi-
tion to S.J. Res. 37 which would pre-
vent the transfer of Paveway precision-
guided munitions to the United Arab
Emirates.
There are numerous reasons to op-
pose this resolution. Let me list three:
First, and most obviously, some
Paveways have already left the U.S.,
and this fact alone shows that this res-
olution is more about messaging than
action and demonstrates the urgent
need the UAE has for these munitions.
Second, the UAE is a steadfast part-
ner against Iran. Tehran is our fore-
most opponent in the region right now
and a critical threat to our interests
there. I would note that the very
flawed Iran deal put millions—in fact,
billions and billions—of dollars of cash
into the pockets of Iran, and they are
now using those dollars to support ter-
rorism, foment instability, put mines
on ships, and attack ships in inter-
national waters. So they are now a
threat not just in the region but a
threat around the world. So, thank
God, President Trump had the good
sense to get us out of that terrible
deal.
If we want the UAE’s continued help,
we need to make sure that we are a re-
liable partner and that they are prop-
erly armed.
The third item is that the U.S. needs
to continue its leadership in the re-
gion. If the UAE and Saudi Arabia can-
not buy arms from us, that doesn’t
mean they won’t get arms. It just
means that they will buy them from
the Russians. This will diminish our
standing, weaken our leverage with our
partners, and call into question our re-
liability as a partner.
For these reasons and others, I urge
my colleagues to oppose this resolu-
tion. I thank the gentleman for yield-
ing.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the remainder of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend on
the other side of the aisle. It is a good
debate here. The bottom line on this is,
I think if the concern is Saudi Arabia—
I understand the concern, I may not
share it in the same level of depth—
then vote ‘‘no’’ on the last resolution
or vote for the last resolution.
This one is on UAE, and whether it is
Saudi, UAE, or Jordan, I think it is im-
portant for us, Mr. Speaker, to con-
stantly show that we have our allies’
back, especially an ally like UAE.
We know that Iran likes to go on the
offensive. We know that the only thing
that stops Iran from broader encroach-
ments in the Middle East is the United
States and our allies. We know that a
good offensive posture is the best de-
fensive posture to prevent a shooting
war from ever happening.
So, again, we can all debate the proc-
ess and how this went down, but the
bottom line is we must reject this reso-
lution. This is a resolution that I think
is a result of political pressure, and we
must send this back to the Senate
where it belongs, or if this passes then
I am sure the President will veto it.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the de-
bate, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Again, Mr. Speaker, let me say that
I certainly respect my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle for the
points they have raised. We have simi-
lar concerns, but I think the way we
handle it or the way we have proposed
to handle it is a little bit different.
That is why I am saying if we don’t
pass this measure, then these bombs
will be on their way to the Emirates
very soon.
If we do pass this resolution, then it
will go to the President’s desk and it
will put him on the spot to answer
whether he agrees that our values need
to be central to America’s work around
the world.
Again, I am very concerned and
aware of the malign role that the Ira-
nians play in the region. I am very con-
cerned about the Houthis who also play
a bad role in the region. But that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.045 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5940 July 17, 2019
doesn’t mean that we should just give
blank checks or give them arms. I
think it would just be a mistake to let
them think that they don’t have to
have any conduct in trying to conduct
this war into diminishing civilian cas-
ualties.
The other point I want to raise,
again, is the fact that, Mr. Speaker, do
you remember when you were a kid in
school and you learned how a bill be-
came a law?
Well, there is something called sepa-
ration of powers, checks and balances.
It is not right for the President to de-
clare an emergency when there really
is no emergency in order to get around
Congress’ disapproval of something. So
I feel it is important to fight for the in-
stitution as well.
So, again, if we do pass this resolu-
tion, it will go to the President’s desk,
and it will let him answer whether he
agrees that our values need to be cen-
tral to our work around the world.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 491,
the previous question is ordered on the
joint resolution.
The question is on the third reading
of the joint resolution.
The joint resolution was ordered to
be read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA OF CER-
TAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES AND
SERVICES
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to section 3 of House Resolution 491, I
call up the joint resolution (S.J. Res.
38) providing for congressional dis-
approval of the proposed export to the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland of certain defense ar-
ticles and services, and ask for its im-
mediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 491, the joint
resolution is considered read.
The text of the joint resolution is as
follows:
S.J. RES. 38
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the issuance of an
export license with respect to the following
proposed exports to the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is prohibited:
(1) The transfer of the following defense ar-
ticles, including services and technical data,
described in Executive Communication 1422
(EC–1422) submitted to Congress pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act
(22 U.S.C. 2776(c)) and published in the Con-
gressional Record on June 3, 2019: The pro-
posed transfer of defense articles, defense
services, and technical data to support the
manufacture of the Aurora Fuzing System
for the Paveway IV Precision Guided Bomb
Program.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL)
and the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
MAST) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include in
the RECORD extraneous materials on
the measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this final measure we
will consider would stop the transfer of
fuses for precision-guided munitions—
critical components that allow these
weapons to be armed and detonated.
Like the bombs, these components
have already been manufactured, and
we need to act quickly to stop their
shipment.
As we wrap up this debate, Mr.
Speaker, I want to make an appeal to
my friends on the other side of the
aisle: You can be for or against these
weapons sales and still understand that
these resolutions are the right thing to
do, if for nothing else than the integ-
rity of this body.
I spoke earlier about the rule of law.
This phony emergency declaration is a
message to the Congress and to the
American people that when the law
gets in the way, this administration is
just going to find a way around it.
They will twist the law into pretzels or
just throw it out the window entirely if
it allows them to sidestep Congress. We
cannot stand for that.
This administration should have
played by the rules, and we could have
done that and probably still gotten
these sales through. They could have
sent up a notification and allowed Con-
gress to have a debate. But instead,
they want to shut us out of this proc-
ess.
With these resolutions, we are taking
some of that power back. We are saying
that we won’t allow the laws written in
this body to be ignored. If nothing else,
this is an opportunity to stand up and
say: We took an oath to uphold the
Constitution, and that means Congress
remains a coequal branch of govern-
ment.
Let me say that again: that means
Congress is a coequal branch of govern-
ment. We will not be a rubberstamp for
any administration, not only this ad-
ministration, but any administration.
Congress has its duties. We will not be
a rubberstamp.
I have felt for a long time that ad-
ministrations of both parties, quite
frankly, have ignored Congress when it
comes to foreign policy and national
security. We shouldn’t stand for it any
longer. No more do we give a blank
check to any President of any party
who wants to cut Congress out of the
decisionmaking and subvert the Con-
stitution.
So, Mr. Speaker, we shouldn’t agree
to it, we shouldn’t stand for it, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
S.J. Res. 38. And I want to focus my re-
marks on the rationale behind the
President’s emergency declaration and
ask that we think about the definition
of the word ‘‘declaration’’, what that
means to each of us.
My friends on the other side of the
aisle would prefer to forget that these
arms sales were expedited for a very
specific reason. They are omitting this
information because it doesn’t fit into
their narrative that the President is
doing a favor to Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates. I can tell you
that defense is no favor.
The threat that emanates from Iran
that precipitated this emergency dec-
laration is very, very real, and, as a re-
sult, so is the need for the weapons
sales to our partners.
So let’s think about it: Are these sit-
uations emergencies?
Do they pose an immediate risk to
life—an immediate threat to life?
In May in the days leading right up
to this emergency declaration, Iran
and its proxies executed several at-
tacks throughout the Middle East over
just 2 weeks.
Four oil tankers were attacked in the
Gulf of Oman. I would say that is an
emergency and a threat to life.
Armed drones struck Saudi oil fields.
I would say that is an emergency and a
threat to life.
The head of the Quds Force called on
terror groups to prepare for a proxy
war. I would certainly call that an
emergency and a very direct threat to
life.
A rocket was launched near the U.S.
embassy in Baghdad. I would call that
an emergency and a threat to life.
A bomb-carrying drone was launched
by Houthi rebels targeting a Saudi air-
port on May 21. I would say that is an
emergency and a threat to life.
Now in the weeks since the emer-
gency declaration, Iran has only
ramped up its attacks and it is precipi-
tating the need to have this emergency
declaration.
Houthi rebels have continued attacks
on civilian airports in Saudi Arabia.
That is an emergency and a direct
threat to life.
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5941
July 17, 2019
The IRGC perpetrated another attack
on commercial shipping, this time tar-
geting Japanese and Norwegian oil
tankers transiting through the Strait
of Hormuz. I would say that that is an
emergency and a threat to life.
A rocket hit an oil drilling site in
Iraq’s southern Basra Province strik-
ing inside a compound that housed con-
tractors and employees of Exxon Mobil.
I would say that is an emergency and a
threat to life.
Iran shot down a U.S. military asset
over international waters. I would say
that is an emergency.
Just last week three Iranian para-
military vessels tried to impede the
passage of a British oil tanker
transiting the Strait of Hormuz, and I
would say that is an emergency and a
threat to life.
Now, even as Iran continues to
threaten international shipping and ci-
vilians in the Middle East, there are
Members of this body who want to cre-
ate doubts about the commitments
that we have to our partners on the
front lines. Now for Saudi Arabia and
the United Arab Emirates, this is not
an abstract threat. It is their tankers
that are being attacked, their airports
that are being targeted, and their oil
fields.
Now, our bilateral relationship with
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates undoubtedly is complicated,
and we absolutely have to press for im-
provements in domestic human rights
for both countries. I think we can
agree on this wholeheartedly: we have
to seek justice and accountability in
the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, un-
doubtedly. In fact, earlier this week
this body voted overwhelmingly for Mr.
MALINOWSKI’s H.R. 2037 which imposes
sanctions on those responsible for Mr.
Khashoggi’s murder.
Even as the United Arab Emirates
draws down its position in Yemen, we
must press Saudi Arabia to minimize
civilian casualties in that conflict, but
none of these challenges justify what-
soever abandoning our partners as they
face down a threat from an Iranian re-
gime that is on the march throughout
the Middle East. In fact, we must con-
tinue to show our investment in our
strategic partnerships in order to
incentivize our partners to make the
changes that we are asking them to
make.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
have had a longstanding concern about
these sales. We have a codified congres-
sional review process precisely to ad-
dress such concerns, however it is my
assessment that my Democratic col-
leagues abused this review process.
Prior to the emergency notification,
Republican Members had supported
these sales, but Democrat Members
subjected them to informal holds—in
some cases for over a year—without
any clear path to resolution. Now,
given the wide range of conflicts and
threats in the Middle East, I do not un-
derstand why my colleagues were sur-
prised when, after months and even
over a year of delay, it was assessed
that our partners urgently needed
these defense articles and services for
their national security in these emer-
gency situations.
b 1400
Perhaps if my colleagues had taken a
more active approach to resolving their
concerns, we would have avoided the
situation in which additional capabili-
ties were needed to respond to the ele-
vated threat, this emergency situation
that has been posted by Iran.
Now, Mr. Speaker, there has long
been a consensus in this body that
Iran’s malign activities in the Middle
East are a threat to the United States’
national security and to our partners.
In the past 3 years alone, we have
passed legislation responding to Iran’s
support for terrorism, growing ballistic
missile arsenal, and human rights
abuses. The Iranian regime has not
backed down from these malign activi-
ties, and it is my sincere hope that this
body will not back down from its re-
solve to counter Iran’s destabilizing
agenda.
Unfortunately, this resolution and
the other joint resolutions of dis-
approval for the 22 sales are very much
a step in the wrong direction.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
distinguished gentleman from Texas
(Mr. TAYLOR).
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, from its
inception, the Islamic Republic of Iran
had an anti-American bent: what it did
in our Embassy, its attack on the Ma-
rines in Beirut in 1983, its efforts in
Iraq.
In 2003, I was part of the invasion
force. I saw with my own eyes the Ira-
nian efforts to destabilize Iraq, and
they continue to do that there today.
They continue to support the Assad
regime in Syria. They continue to
overthrow the regime in Yemen, sup-
port the Houthi rebels attacking Saudi
Arabia.
Around the Middle East, Iran has be-
come the enemy of freedom and democ-
racy.
If America is going to succeed, we
need to have allies; we need to have
friends. We need to support those allies
and those friends. Making sure that
Saudi Arabia or UAE have the weapons
that they need to fight back against
Iran’s terrorism and warmongering
around this region is mission-critical
for the survival of our Republic.
Mr. Speaker, I stand against this res-
olution.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time for the purpose
of closing.
Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time to close de-
bate on this measure.
I am glad we had a spirited debate on
the issues. As always, I am grateful to
the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
MCCAUL), my friend, the ranking mem-
ber, for his collegiality. We are gen-
erally bipartisan on the Foreign Affairs
Committee, and when we do disagree,
we do so on the issues and not on the
politics and the personalities.
I have enormous respect for Mr.
MAST, which he knows about, but I
would say that this, today, is not a ref-
erendum on Iran. I agree with every-
thing that my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle have said about Iran:
its bad intention, its bad behavior. I
agree.
But, again, I say, as I said before, it
doesn’t mean we give another country,
being an ally or not, a blank check to
do whatever it pleases. And in this par-
ticular case, the conduct of the war in
Yemen is something that we cannot
just turn our heads away and say: ‘‘Oh,
well, this is the war and the Iranians
are bad, so, therefore, we are going to
look the other way.’’ I think if we are
talking about American weapons, we
can demand better.
So I think that these measures are a
chance for the Congress to take back
some of the power granted by the Con-
stitution, to say that we won’t stand
by when any administration—this ad-
ministration, administrations to come
in both parties—we won’t stand by
when any administration ignores Con-
gress, plays fast and loose with the
law, and fails to demand accountability
for human rights abuses around the
world.
I encourage all my colleagues to sup-
port this measure and the two others
that we have just considered.
I thank Mr. MAST and my friends on
other side of the aisle for a spirited de-
bate, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 491,
the previous question is ordered on the
joint resolution.
The question is on the third reading
of the joint resolution.
The joint resolution was ordered to
be read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE
FIND WILLIAM P. BARR AND
WILBUR L. ROSS, JR., IN CON-
TEMPT OF CONGRESS
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, I call up the report
(H. Rept. 116–125) to accompany the
resolution recommending that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.049 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5942 July 17, 2019
House of Representatives find William
P. Barr, Attorney General of the
United States, and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.,
Secretary of Commerce, in contempt of
Congress for refusal to comply with
subpoenas duly issued by the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
The Clerk read the title of the report.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE). Pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 491, the report is considered read.
(For text of the report, see pro-
ceedings of the House in Books II and
III of July 17, 2019.)
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, I call up the resolu-
tion (H. Res. 497) recommending that
the House of Representatives find Wil-
liam P. Barr, Attorney General of the
United States, and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.,
Secretary of Commerce, in contempt of
Congress for refusal to comply with
subpoenas duly issued by the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, and
ask for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 491, the resolu-
tion is considered read.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
HOUSE RESOLUTION 497
Resolved, That William P. Barr, Attorney
General of the United States, and Wilbur L.
Ross, Jr., Secretary of Commerce, shall be
found to be in contempt of Congress for fail-
ing to comply with subpoenas authorized by
the Committee on Oversight and Reform and
duly issued by Chairman Elijah E. Cummings
relating to the 2020
Resolved, That the Attorney General I(i)
Census, failed to comply with a Committee
subpoena issued on April 2, 2019, to produce
documents, and (ii) ordered a Department of
Justice employee, John Gore, not to comply
with a Committee subpoena requiring him to
appear for deposition testimony before the
Committee on April 11, 2019.
Resolved, That the Secretary of Commerce
failed to comply with a Committee subpoena
issued on April 2, 2019, to produce docu-
ments.
Resolved, That the Report of the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform details the
refusal of the Attorney General to produce
documents to the Committee as required by
subpoena, the order from the Attorney Gen-
eral directing John Gore to defy a duly au-
thorized Committee subpoena for deposition
testimony, and the refusal of the Secretary
of Commerce to produce documents to the
Committee as required by subpoena.
Resolved, That pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 192 and
194, the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives shall certify the Report of the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, detailing
the refusal of William P. Barr, Attorney
General of the United States, to produce doc-
uments to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform as directed by subpoena, to the
United States Attorney for the District of
Columbia, to the end that Mr. Barr be pro-
ceeded against in the manner and form pro-
vided by law.
Resolved, That pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 192 and
194, the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives shall certify the Report of the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, detailing
the refusal of Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Secretary
of Commerce, to produce documents to the
Committee as directed by subpoena, to the
United States Attorney for the District of
Columbia, to the end that Mr. Ross be pro-
ceeded against in the manner and form pro-
vided by law.
Resolved, That the Speaker of the House
shall otherwise take all appropriate action
to enforce the subpoenas.
Resolved, That the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform shall take
all necessary steps to enforce the above-ref-
erenced subpoenas, including, but not lim-
ited to, seeking authorization from the
House of Representatives through a vote of
the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group pursu-
ant to clause 8(b) of rule II, and H. Res. 430,
to initiate or to intervene in proceedings in
any federal court of competent jurisdiction,
to seek judgements affirming the duty of the
subpoena recipients to comply with the
above-referenced subpoenas, and to seek any
appropriate ancillary relief, including in-
junctive relief.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution shall be debatable for 1 hour,
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
The gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
CUMMINGS) and the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. COMER) each will con-
trol 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to insert extraneous mate-
rial.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself 5 minutes.
Madam Speaker, I support this bipar-
tisan resolution to hold Attorney Gen-
eral William Barr and Commerce Sec-
retary Wilbur Ross in contempt of Con-
gress because it is necessary to pre-
serve the integrity of this body and of
the Census.
The Constitution mandates that we
conduct a Census every 10 years, and
that the Census count every person. A
full, fair, and accurate account is crit-
ical to ensuring that we properly allo-
cate Federal funding and congressional
apportionment.
I do not take this decision lightly.
Holding any Cabinet Secretary in
criminal contempt of Congress is a se-
rious and somber matter, one that I
have done everything in my power to
avoid. But in the case of the Attorney
General and the Secretary, Secretary
Ross, they blatantly obstructed our
ability to do congressional oversight
into the real reason Secretary Ross
was trying, for the first time in 70
years—in 70 years—to add a citizen
question to the 2020 Census.
Secretary Ross testified under oath
that he added a citizenship question
solely—I want you to concentrate on
that word, ‘‘solely’’—to help the Jus-
tice Department enforce the Voting
Rights Act. But we now know that
claim was nothing but a pretext.
And do not take my word for that,
Madam Speaker. The Supreme Court
said that.
Our committee’s investigation un-
covered evidence that Secretary Ross
launched a secret campaign to add the
citizenship question within days of as-
suming his post.
We learned that Secretary Ross ig-
nored warnings from experts inside and
outside the Census Bureau, including
the Bureau’s chief scientist, that add-
ing a citizenship question will be costly
and harm the accuracy of the Census.
In other words, they were saying: If
you do this, you are not going to have
an accurate Census.
Our investigation also revealed that
Secretary Ross spoke with Attorney
General Sessions, Steve Bannon, and
Kris Kobach. Contrary to his testi-
mony to Congress, the Commerce De-
partment conjured up the voting rights
rationale to hide these interactions.
This entire Congress should be in-
sulted by this.
Committee Democrats first asked for
documents from the Department of
Commerce and the Department of Jus-
tice when we were in the minority in
April and May of 2018. Both depart-
ments ignored us.
When I became chairman, I renewed
these requests on behalf of the com-
mittee. Since then, the administration
has engaged in a purposeful effort to
obstruct—and I do not use that word
lightly—our investigation. The Depart-
ments have refused to provide key
unredacted documents that we need to
understand the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth, about why
they really made this decision.
Instead, what did they do? They pro-
duced thousands of pages that were
largely nonresponsive, heavily re-
dacted, or publicly already available.
b 1415
When they let us interview witnesses,
what did they do? They ordered the
witnesses not to answer more than 500
of our questions. Secretary Ross even
refused my request to meet to try to
work this out.
Like I said, I do not come to this
floor lightly. This is not an easy deci-
sion. But there comes a time when the
Congress must be for the Congress.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
As a result, on April 2, more than 3
months ago, after a bipartisan vote,
the committee subpoenaed these key
documents, including a secret memo
that the Department of Commerce
wrote about the citizenship question
and gave to the Department of Justice.
The Departments have admitted to
us that this memo does exist, but they
refuse to produce this document and
many others.
I must say, to give credit where cred-
it is due, that my good friend and col-
league on the other side, Mr. MEADOWS,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.052 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5943
July 17, 2019
worked tirelessly to try to help us get
the things that we needed. I appreciate
that, trying to work in a bipartisan
way.
Going on from there, last month, in
light of this obstruction, the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform passed
a resolution to hold Attorney General
Barr and Secretary Ross in contempt
of Congress. The vote was also bipar-
tisan. However, many of our Repub-
lican colleagues apparently support the
Trump administration’s refusal to
comply with duly authorized congres-
sional subpoenas.
Let me say to my colleagues that we
need to be clear that we, as a body,
have a constitutional duty to be a
check on the executive branch. That is
our job. Every 2 years, we swear to up-
hold the Constitution of the United
States of America. That is what we are
supposed to do.
Some of my colleagues claim that we
were interfering with the Supreme
Court’s decision on this issue. That ar-
gument never did make any sense to
me since we launched our investigation
in 2018, more than 10 months before the
Supreme Court took up the case.
Even if you accept that misguided ar-
gument, the Supreme Court case is now
over. That argument is gone.
The President announced last week
that he would no longer pursue adding
a citizenship question to the Census.
However, in that same speech, the
President admitted that he wanted
citizenship data to implement partisan
gerrymandering.
The President’s statements directly
contradict Secretary Ross’ sworn testi-
mony that the only reason, the sole
reason, the Trump administration
wanted this data was to help the Jus-
tice Department enforce the Voting
Rights Act.
The Departments of Justice and
Commerce have been engaged in a cam-
paign to subvert our laws and the proc-
ess Congress put in place to maintain
the integrity of the Census.
I would say to all of our Members:
Let’s be very careful about what we do
with regard to the Census. It has a tre-
mendous impact for 10 years on how
more than $660 billion in Federal funds
are appropriated, over and over again—
apportionment, redistricting, and mak-
ing sure that every American gets
their fair share back of their taxpayer
dollars; that is, the money of the hard-
working people who raised the money
for our taxes.
The resolution before us today is
about protecting our democracy. It is
about protecting the integrity of this
body. It is bigger than the Census. It is
about protecting the integrity of the
Congress of the United States of Amer-
ica.
We need to understand how and why
the Trump administration tried to add
a question based on a pretext so that
we can consider reforms to ensure that
this never happens again.
There are those who will ask the
question: Why, with the Supreme Court
having decided what they have decided,
do you want the documents? We want
the documents because we want to
make sure that we do not, in the fu-
ture, spend a year or a year and a half
chasing something that is not accu-
rate—in the words of the Supreme
Court, a pretext—delaying our process
of getting an accurate account, which
is exactly what the Constitution says
we must do.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to support our resolution to
hold Attorney General Barr and Sec-
retary Ross in contempt of the Con-
gress of the United States of America.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume,
and I rise in opposition.
Madam Speaker, we are here today
debating a premature and ill-advised
resolution to hold Attorney General
William Barr and Secretary of Com-
merce Wilbur Ross in contempt of Con-
gress.
In the eyes of the Democratic major-
ity, their crime is not cooperating
enough with the Democrats’ investiga-
tion into the reinstatement of the citi-
zenship question on the 2020 Census.
First, this contempt citation is a
misuse of one of the most powerful
tools available to this body.
Second, the idea that the Trump ad-
ministration is stonewalling this inves-
tigation or even, in Chairman CUM-
MINGS’ words, engaged in a coverup
from the top, is simply wrong.
The bottom line is, the Department
of Justice and the Department of Com-
merce are cooperating with the com-
mittee’s investigation into the re-
institution of the citizenship question
on the 2020 Census. The administration
has produced a total of 31,000 pages of
documents to the committee, 14,000
pages from the Commerce Department
and 17,000 pages from the Justice De-
partment.
The committee had heard testimony
from six witnesses, with more inter-
views expected this month. Secretary
Ross himself testified for over 6 hours
about his decision to reinstate the citi-
zenship question on the Census.
The real issue we should be debating
is why the Democrats are afraid to ask
how many citizens are in the United
States of America.
Let’s remember, just 1 month ago,
the Supreme Court ruled that asking a
citizenship question on the Census is
constitutional. Since the Supreme
Court ruling, the President has said a
citizenship question will not appear on
the 2020 Census.
To put away all doubt about asking a
citizenship question on the Census and
all future Censuses, I introduced a bill
last night to add a citizenship question
to the 2020 Census. My bill is intended
to put away all doubt about asking a
citizenship question on this and future
Censuses.
If the Democrats can’t impeach
President Trump, they will, instead,
hold his Cabinet in contempt of Con-
gress. This is just another episode in
political theater. This exercise is not a
responsible use of the contempt au-
thority.
This is just another attempt for the
Democrats to delegitimize the efforts
to accurately count the number of
United States citizens in the United
States, something that should not be
controversial. This is all part of the
same game plan to manufacture con-
troversy around anything associated
with the Trump administration.
These are the sort of abusive tactics
that we should reject. These are the
sort of tactics that give Congress a bad
reputation. We should be better than
this.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members
of the House to vote against moving
this partisan contempt legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Let me be very clear: This is not the-
ater. I wish it was theater. It is not
theater.
This is about us making sure that we
protect the integrity of the Census and
of this Congress.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the distinguished gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE).
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of this res-
olution to hold Attorney General Barr
and Commerce Secretary Ross in con-
tempt of Congress.
Madam Speaker, we have reached a
point that we, as Congress, must have
the courage—and we have a duty to our
constituents of these United States of
America—to uphold the Constitution.
Congress has an obligation to con-
duct oversight of the executive branch,
yet this administration complains each
time we request information critical to
fulfilling our investigative responsibil-
ities.
Today, the full House will vote to
hold Attorney General Barr and Sec-
retary Ross in criminal contempt of
Congress for their complete disregard
of the Constitution—not of Democrats,
of the Constitution—and their refusal
to provide our committee with relevant
documents relative to the investiga-
tion of our 2020 Census.
It is 100 percent within our congres-
sional responsibility to ensure the Fed-
eral Government is ultimately working
in the best interests of the people it
serves.
I urge my colleagues to support this
resolution, to stand up and fulfill their
duty and responsibility to the Con-
stitution, which says we must take
care of the people of this great country
and that Congress will maintain its
power as a separate but equal branch of
government.
Madam Speaker, I thank the chair-
man for his leadership.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. KELLER).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.054 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5944 July 17, 2019
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, every
Member of Congress was elected to
work on issues that will positively im-
pact their districts.
As we stand here today, our Nation is
dealing with a crisis at our southern
border; our seniors are struggling with
rising prescription drug prices; our
farmers are waiting for a free and fair
trade deal with Mexico and Canada;
and our veterans deserve the care they
have earned.
Yet, today, House Democrats are,
once again, putting off these important
issues and continuing with their par-
tisan investigations of President
Trump and his administration.
Madam Speaker, this administration
has produced 31,000 pages of documents
related to the Census. This administra-
tion has made five senior officials
available for interview. All this is due
to a disagreement over a citizenship
question on the Census.
Madam Speaker, a citizenship ques-
tion is not new, nor should it be con-
troversial. Every Census conducted by
the United States Government from
1820 to 1950 asked about citizenship.
Other countries ask about citizen-
ship. The United Nations recommends
it as a best practice. The Census Bu-
reau today already asks a segment of
the population about citizenship.
Let’s set these facts aside. Given that
President Trump is no longer seeking
to add a citizenship question to the
2020 Census, voting on a resolution to
hold two Cabinet members in contempt
of Congress is simply a Democratic tac-
tic to waste this Chamber’s time and
avoid working on the serious issues
facing our Nation.
Madam Speaker, I urge Members to
vote against the resolution so the
House can stop this partisan nonsense
and focus on meaningful policy.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY), a member of our committee.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding and for his
great leadership.
Madam Speaker, today, we vote to
defend the interests of the American
people, our system of checks and bal-
ances, and our very Constitution with
this resolution to hold Secretary Ross
and Attorney General Barr in criminal
contempt.
For well over a year, Trump adminis-
tration officials have lied through their
teeth about the reason for adding a
citizenship question to the 2020 Census.
b 1430
They have repeatedly lied to Con-
gress, the Supreme Court, and the
American people.
In an effort to cover up their lies,
they blocked every demand from our
committee, every demand to comply
with reasonable oversight, withholding
documents, asserting illegitimate exec-
utive privilege, and blatantly ignoring
bipartisan subpoenas, all to a degree
that would literally break the Con-
stitution if allowed to stand.
New evidence in court, which I
shared on this floor, revealed that the
real reason for the question was to dis-
enfranchise non-White voters. The Su-
preme Court ruled that the administra-
tion’s explanation was contrived.
A functional democracy depends on
accountability. Accountability re-
quires real oversight.
The passage of this criminal con-
tempt resolution is necessary to pre-
serve the integrity of all congressional
oversight on this and so many other
issues now and into the future. This
contempt resolution, in fact, allows
both Democrats and Republicans to do
their job.
Never, ever during my time in Con-
gress have I encountered such complete
contempt for the law, and that con-
tempt deserves to be punished.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote for this. Our democracy
depends on it.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS), one of the great leaders of
this body.
Mr. MEADOWS. Madam Speaker, let
me give you a quote: ‘‘Holding someone
in contempt of Congress is one of the
most serious and formal actions our
committee can take, and it should not
be used as a political tool to generate
press as part of an election-year witch
hunt.’’
Who is responsible for that quote? It
is not Ranking Member JIM JORDAN. It
is not Leader MCCARTHY. It is not Con-
ference Chair LIZ CHENEY. It is Chair-
man ELIJAH CUMMINGS. Those are his
words.
What we need to do is understand
that we are using this as a political
tool, and we are better than that. We
are better than that.
I am going to quote from another let-
ter from Chairman CUMMINGS. At that
time, he was not the chairman. Chair-
man CUMMINGS wrote a letter to Speak-
er Boehner. He said, ‘‘A fundamental
problem with conducting such a par-
tisan investigation is that the results
are not even-handed but instead are
skewed, incomplete, and inaccurate.’’
Chairman CUMMINGS went on further.
He said: ‘‘These deficiencies are mag-
nified when we rush from a committee
vote to a floor vote at breakneck speed,
with little concern for the facts or the
law.’’
What was he referring to? He was re-
ferring to a contempt vote on Eric
Holder.
Here we are today, in the same
venue. I am using the chairman’s
words, so I am going to make an appeal
to the chairman, with the hope that
my good friend opposite will heed these
words because, in that same letter, he
made a direct appeal to the Speaker of
the House at that particular time. He
said that he hoped that the chairman
would accept that the Attorney Gen-
eral is willing to come in to meet per-
sonally and enter into direct negotia-
tions in good faith to try to resolve the
matter.
I am hoping that the gentleman op-
posite will withdraw his contempt reso-
lution, not force a vote on this, but
enter into a direct negotiation with the
Attorney General of this great country
and, hopefully, resolve this without
taking this particular action.
Madam Speaker, I think it is criti-
cally important that we understand
why we are here today. It is because we
are using two standards, one standard
for the minority party at one time and
one standard for a majority party at
another time. Let’s use the same
standard and make sure that we give
the Attorney General the ability to ne-
gotiate directly with the gentleman op-
posite.
Madam Speaker, I certainly hope
that cooler heads will prevail and that
we get to the bottom of this. It is about
allowing Congress to do its job but do
it with respect.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Let me be clear. First of all, I thank
the gentleman for quoting me so much.
I am tremendously honored. I think
the quotes that he used just reiterate
what I said when I began about how se-
riously I take this matter. I wouldn’t
be here if I did not consider this to be
very serious.
The other thing I would say is that
we have made tremendous efforts, and
the gentleman knows it because he has
helped, working with me to try to get
the documents and the things that we
need. We have not been able to get
them.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from California (Mr.
GOMEZ).
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, the
Census can be used to either
marginalize or to empower commu-
nities. This President decided on the
path of marginalization.
They did that by coming up with an
idea to silence the voices of immigrant
communities throughout the country
by adding a citizenship question that
they deemed necessary to enforce the
Voting Rights Act.
For 53 years, no Department of Jus-
tice had a problem enforcing the Vot-
ing Rights Act without Census block
data on citizenship. All of a sudden,
2017 comes around, and you know
what? We have a problem.
This is the excuse that they had. This
is the reason they had to add this ques-
tion to the Census. It is just com-
pletely false, even to the extent that
we saw that they said that the Depart-
ment of Justice was the one that asked
for it.
Then, we find out later that they had
to shop around to the Department of
Homeland Security and other Depart-
ments in order to get somebody to try
to ask the Census Bureau to add the
question. Then, they went back to Jeff
Sessions, who carried out their request.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.055 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5945
July 17, 2019
We are investigating because every-
thing that they have said, the Depart-
ment of Commerce and Wilbur Ross,
has been a complete lie.
If you don’t believe me, the recent
Supreme Court decision said, ‘‘Unlike a
typical case in which an agency may
have both stated and unstated reasons
for a decision . . . the sole stated rea-
son seems to have been contrived.’’
What does ‘‘contrived’’ mean? It
means forced, artificial, manufactured,
false. False, that is what it is. It is a
contrived reason.
The American people have a right to
know the real reasons, not the con-
trived reasons, not the ones that were
manufactured, not the ones that were
made up. That is why we are asking for
these documents. That is why, when
Congress cannot perform its obliga-
tions for oversight and as a check on
the executive branch, then we must
hold these individuals in contempt.
I ask my colleagues to do the same
thing.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind Members to use the
proper designation for the presiding of-
ficer.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from West Virginia (Mrs. MIL-
LER).
Mrs. MILLER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to oppose the resolution before
us.
Knowing who is in our country
should not be controversial. Let me re-
peat that: Knowing who is in our coun-
try should not be controversial.
Although my colleagues across the
aisle have blurred fact and fiction on
this issue, the truth is, asking a citi-
zenship question is standard operating
procedure. It is currently asked on cen-
suses throughout the world, in Aus-
tralia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Mex-
ico, the U.K., and many others. The
United Nations even recommends ask-
ing the citizenship question as a census
best practice so countries can gather
accurate information about their citi-
zens.
It is not a new idea in the U.S. either.
We first asked the citizenship question
on the Census in 1820 and continued the
practice for the next 130 years. It is
still asked every year on the American
Community Survey. The information
collected is protected by Federal law,
and our Justice Department uses the
information to enforce the Voting
Rights Act.
We still ask the citizenship question
on I–9 employment eligibility forms.
Right here in the District of Colum-
bia, a citizenship question is asked on
driver’s license applications. They do
the same in Wisconsin.
In California, anyone who applies for
a firearm license has to answer a citi-
zenship question. In Ohio, concealed-
carry applicants must verify if they are
citizens or not.
These States believe it is fine to ask
this question to obtain a firearm or
driver’s license, but it is not okay to
ask on the Census?
For anyone to claim that this is a
hot-button issue, I just don’t buy it. It
seems a little bit more like hot air.
I am glad that President Trump is
working across Federal agencies to en-
sure that we can get this crucial infor-
mation.
I urge my colleagues to oppose this
resolution so that we can get back to
actual work.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. RASKIN), the chairman
of our Subcommittee on Civil Rights
and Civil Liberties.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, like
the chairman, I am charmed and tick-
led by the argument offered by our
friend Mr. MEADOWS, who quotes our
beloved chairman in resisting a rush to
a contempt vote against Attorney Gen-
eral Holder.
Of course, two sides can play this
game because the gentleman from
North Carolina, of course, voted for
and championed a contempt citation
against the Attorney General in that
case.
Why would he support a contempt
finding as appropriate against one At-
torney General who is acting in a re-
calcitrant way but not against an-
other?
Madam Speaker, this is not a policy
battle about the citizenship question,
although my friends seem to think
that it is. They have already lost that
battle. They lost it in the Federal dis-
trict courts three times. They lost it in
the United States Supreme Court.
They lost it with Chief Justice John
Roberts. They lost it with the majority
of the Supreme Court, a Supreme Court
that was gerrymandered by Senator
MCCONNELL for precisely occasions like
this, so they could get the outcome
they wanted, but even that Court re-
jected the contrived rationale that was
offered by the Commerce Department.
It has been rejected by six former
Census Directors. It was rejected by
their own chief scientist in the Com-
merce Department and the Census Bu-
reau. They lost the case under the Cen-
sus Act. They lost the case under the
Administrative Procedure Act.
Even President Trump acknowledges
that they lost. At least, I think he ac-
knowledges it today, although he does
waver back and forth. And I hope noth-
ing that we say today will prompt him
to start over again.
They lost because their justification
was contrived, according to Chief Jus-
tice Roberts. It was made up, com-
pletely pretextual, according to the
Federal district courts, arbitrary, ca-
pricious, irrational, silly.
We get the citizenship information
we need right now, and we have for the
last 70 years, under what was called the
long form. Now it is called the Amer-
ican Community Survey.
It has been rejected, but six former
Census Bureau Directors said that if we
did what they wanted to do, we would
get a far more inaccurate counting. We
would get a far less accurate portrait
of America.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. CUMMINGS. I yield the gen-
tleman from Maryland an additional 1
minute.
Mr. RASKIN. If the minority wants
to talk about the policy, we can, but
we don’t need to. They have already
lost repeatedly on that, and they seem
not to want to acknowledge that basic
fact of this discussion.
This is about congressional power,
Madam Speaker, and that is something
that should unify every Member of this
body and institution. We must stand
together.
The Supreme Court and the Federal
courts have said repeatedly that our
factfinding power is inextricable, es-
sential, and indispensable to our legis-
lative power.
We have the power of the people. The
sovereign political power of the people
has been given to us to legislate. We
can’t legislate if we can’t get the infor-
mation that we need.
Sometimes we disagree, when they
are in the majority, with the stuff that
they want. I wasn’t here then, but I
would have disagreed maybe with some
of the Fast and Furious stuff or the
millions of documents that they got in
the Benghazi investigation. It makes
no difference. The majority has a right
to get what it wants. We have a right
to get what we want.
If you act with contempt for the Con-
gress of the United States of America
and the people of the United States, we
will hold you in contempt of the Con-
gress and United States of America. I
support these contempt resolutions.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the distinguished gen-
tleman from California (Mr. MCCAR-
THY), the great minority leader.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Before I walked out of my office, I
first looked at my calendar. I knew it
was July, but I wondered if it was back
in February. It is another day on the
floor, and it is like ‘‘Groundhog Day’’
all over again.
Yesterday on this floor was a sad
day. It is not a day about decorum. It
is not a day about any of the issues
that any of my constituents ask about.
b 1445
They ask me when I go home, and,
Madam Speaker, I envision that they
ask most every Member in this body:
Have you done anything about surprise
billing? Have you made sure pre-
existing conditions are protected like
that bill GREG WALDEN has with so
many cosponsors? Have you done any-
thing to make sure the economy con-
tinues to grow?
No, I go home, and I tell them: They
had another resolution to attack Presi-
dent Trump or the administration. So
we may be in July, but it is Groundhog
Day all over again.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.056 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5946 July 17, 2019
Are we doing anything about a budg-
et? Because, Madam Speaker, I listened
to my colleagues when they say: Show
me your budget; show me your values.
And I know winning a majority is im-
portant, and I knew, Madam Speaker,
when we were in the majority putting
a budget out is not easy, but it is the
fundamental responsibility of a major-
ity. So, yes, I came to this floor hoping
we would have that debate. But, no, no
debate about a budget. I can’t tell my
constituents that the majority did a
budget this year.
When they ask me: Well, what about
I read all these things about caps, that
you have got to come into agreement
to ever make something happen to-
gether.
No, I am coming back down to the
floor this time, and we are talking
about contempt.
They ask me, Madam Speaker: What
contempt are you talking about?
I said: Well, it is regarding the Cen-
sus.
Well, wasn’t that all solved?
Well, yes, that has already been
solved and already been decided, but,
Madam Speaker, this majority thinks
it is another political opportunity.
Then I listened and I heard this com-
ment the other day. Madam Speaker,
they said: I challenge you to find vot-
ers who can name a single thing House
Democrats have done for their kitchen
table this year, a single thing, chal-
lenging all voters to name one thing.
And I wondered: Did my press oper-
ation put that out? No, it didn’t come
from my office.
And then I wondered: Maybe it was
another Republican inside this body.
No, it wasn’t. It wasn’t one Member
elected on the Republican side.
This quote actually came from a
chief of staff of one of the most promi-
nent Members on the other side of the
aisle. I agree with that chief of staff.
Name me one thing that we have done
for the kitchen table.
Yesterday we did a resolution attack-
ing the President, but we couldn’t even
get to that because, Madam Speaker,
we couldn’t even have decorum in this
body.
We set a record that we have never
seen before based upon a Speaker’s ac-
tion. The very first page in Thomas
Jefferson’s manual talks about deco-
rum. But not only did this body try to
change the rules after the fact, they
don’t think everybody is equal, Madam
Speaker. Because if your words get
taken down, you don’t have a right to
speak that day. But, no, we should
change that. We should show them.
The majority should get what they
want.
Madam Speaker, I guess the majority
doesn’t want a budget. I guess the ma-
jority doesn’t want to do anything
about surprise billing. I guess the ma-
jority doesn’t want to find, when it
comes to our national defense to keep
a 58-year history of bipartisanship,
they broke that record, too. They made
it partisan. And that is what we did
last week.
Well, now we are right back at
Groundhog Day, and we are going to
have contempt votes today. But that is
not all we are going to do today. We
are going to go for the third time on
impeachment—impeachment.
Madam Speaker, I watched a crisis
on the border. I listened to the other
side, who asked the President if he
would pause a court action so we could
deal with it, and I patiently waited
those 2 weeks to have a hearing on it
because, Madam Speaker, I am not in
the majority. I can’t control these
committees. The majority party can.
They didn’t have one hearing on it,
but they have scheduled another one.
They have got Mueller coming in. They
even postponed it so they could have
more time. I guess 22 months, $40 mil-
lion, 13 countries, I guess that is not
enough.
Madam Speaker, I wonder if it is only
one chief of staff challenging to find
voters that can name a single thing
House Democrats have done for the
kitchen table this year, because when I
am home, they don’t come up to me
and talk to me about party; they talk
to me about what the House is doing.
In their house, at their kitchen table,
you know what they talk about there?
They talk about their budget, because
they do know their budget is their val-
ues, and they value having a budget.
They will talk politics, but I don’t
think they get too petty.
It is interesting, at the kitchen table
in the House of Representatives, there
are rules for different people. I thought
the rule of law mattered in this coun-
try, and I was kind of excited when I
watched a Problem Solvers Caucus
stand up together, Republicans and
Democrats, before there was a vote for
a Speaker in this Congress, and they
requested a Consensus Calendar. And
what does a Consensus Calendar mean?
It means, if a Member from any side of
the aisle works really hard, that they
believe in the issue, that they get 290
cosponsors—and you have to under-
stand what that means.
That doesn’t mean walking up to a
Congresswoman or Congressman and
saying? Will you support my bill? Will
you put your name on this? Do you be-
lieve this policy is so great you will
put your name on this?
It takes 218 to pass a bill, but that is
not the number they put out—290, to
get above politics. If you made that
happen, your bill would come to the
floor.
Well, that was the rule. That is what
we just put in.
Madam Speaker, do you know what
happened? There was this Congressman
from South Carolina. He didn’t get 290.
He is up to 370. He followed the exact
rule that the majority just put in. And
do you know what happened the day
that he was going to be the very first
bill on a Consensus Calendar? And
what was the topic that really brought
people together? Survivor benefits for
those who gave their life to defend this
Nation.
I was proud. I was proud that more
than 370 people in this body did not
play politics with that issue.
But do you know what happened
when that day came? The rules are not
equal. The rules are not equal. They
are written, but they are changed.
They were changed last Friday. They
were changed so he could not have his
vote. So Congressman JOE WILSON
could not come to this floor.
Was it changed in a committee? No.
They put it in a rule, self-executing.
Yesterday, when I watched decorum
on this floor, any other Member of this
body would not have the right to speak
if their words were taken down, if it
were me, you, anybody else. But, no,
the rules were changed once again, and
everybody on one side of the aisle,
Madam Speaker, voted to change those
rules; they hold people who seem to be
different, seem to be special, seems to
be that they can break the rules.
I guess the majority should get what
they want, not what the people around
the kitchen table of America want.
I wonder, Madam Speaker, I wonder,
when I watch people campaign and
they talk about what they want to
achieve here, how many said they
wanted to have a week of contempt, of
impeach and resolution, all after one
entity, the President of the United
States?
I didn’t have anybody on any side of
the aisle ever ask me that question.
I hold this job with a great deal of re-
spect. There are less than 12,000 people
who ever had the privilege to serve
here. I travel a long way each week to
have that opportunity. I spend a lot of
time thinking about it. I spend a lot of
time listening and talking to my con-
stituents.
Last night I went home and I did a
telephone townhall. Thousands of peo-
ple were on that call. Not one person
asked me about the contempt of a Cen-
sus form that is already going out.
They talked about an earthquake.
They wondered if they would have
enough money. I said: I don’t know; we
don’t have a budget.
The hospital, because this commu-
nity is not very big, Ridgecrest, about
30,000, the earthquake did damage to
the hospital. People can get some sur-
prise billings, not anything their fault,
but we are not talking about it on this
floor. We are not solving that problem.
But we are holding another person in
the administration in contempt.
Is this going to go anywhere? Is this
going to do anything for anybody’s
kitchen table?
I know some people on the other side
of the aisle, Madam Speaker, might get
mad at this chief of staff, but some-
times you get upset when people speak
the truth. Sometimes it hurts.
What hurts more to the American
public is more of this, if it is just going
to be Groundhog Day every day that we
serve here, because once we get done
with this, we will debate impeachment
for the third time. For the third time,
we will debate impeachment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.059 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5947
July 17, 2019
When we go home this week and we
talk about what we achieved, I don’t
know what I can say. That is not why
we ran. We are better than this.
When I watched the decorum yester-
day, I know we are better than that.
But what is most disturbing to me is,
when somebody did not abide by the
rules of the House, the rules were
changed to protect that person.
America is more than a country.
America is an idea, an idea of self-gov-
ernance, an idea of rule of law, of re-
spect. If you care so much to change
the rule that you would have a Con-
sensus Calendar, abide by it, not just
because somebody on the other side of
the aisle worked harder. If you cared so
much that you said a budget matters,
that it sets the tone of who you are,
produce one.
I understand there are winners and
losers in elections, but, Madam Speak-
er, when I heard what a Member said of
why they wanted to battle, they admit-
ted to their colleagues they were using
the Census investigation to gather in-
formation that, in his words, the
courts could use in ongoing litigation.
So are we really here because your
constituents asked about it? Are we
here because you just want to play a
little more politics? Because I would
tell you this: You have got another
thing coming up right after they can
play politics on it one more time.
I would ask deep inside that, for
once, let’s put it aside. I know that
election didn’t turn out the way you
wanted it, but at the end of the day,
people expect us to find common
ground. They expect us to give on both
sides.
I will guarantee you no one ever went
to the polls to say: I want you to go
there to spend a whole week just at-
tacking an administration. I imagine
the majority of people who voted for
you had the same question as that
chief of staff. They wanted you to
change the kitchen table. So let’s start
focusing on the issues that the Amer-
ican public is talking about around
their kitchen tables.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are directed to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I just want to make it clear, Madam
Speaker, as I listened to the comments
of our very distinguished minority
leader, the fact is that what we are
doing today is trying again to protect
the integrity of this House and to pro-
tect the integrity of the Census and
make sure that we get the records that
we need to do our job, and I would hope
that he would join us in making sure
that happens. Because it is not just
about us; it is about people who will
come and fill these seats when we are
dancing with the angels.
I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY), the very
distinguished gentleman who leads our
Government Operations Subcommittee
excellently.
b 1500
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I
thank my good friend, the distin-
guished chairman of the Oversight and
Reform Committee, for yielding.
Madam Speaker, what we just heard
might be described as hyperanimated
chutzpa to bemoan accountability, to
talk about a kitchen table that is, I
think, imaginary.
I can tell you it doesn’t characterize
the kitchen tables in my district, and
it probably doesn’t characterize them
all across America, which is maybe
why the minority leader is called that
instead of the ‘‘majority leader’’ in this
Congress, because my Republican
friends abrogated any accountability,
any oversight of this administration in
the 2 years they were in the majority
and Mr. Trump was in the White
House.
Americans are focused on economic
and health issues, but that doesn’t
mean they don’t care about what is
happening to their country. They do.
The Census, the distinguished minor-
ity leader doesn’t want you to focus on
why the Census question was so impor-
tant because it is in a context that is
disturbing. It is in a context of voter
suppression all across America: Get rid
of early voting; restrict absentee vot-
ing; have stricter ID laws; make it
harder for students and people of color
to vote; purge voting rolls; have manu-
factured assertions about phony vot-
ing, as if that were the major problem
in America.
Asking the citizenship question on
the Census is part and parcel of that
scheme to discourage minority voting
in America, to frighten immigrant
communities.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from Virginia.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Finally, Madam
Speaker, maybe the worst of all, to be-
moan the change yesterday to allow
the Speaker to have her words consid-
ered and to allow her back on the floor.
Why? Because we don’t care about
rules? No. Because we care about the
impact on millions of Americans of
harmful, racist words, and we felt that
the duty to provide some comfort to
those people that this House cared was
more important than a juridical com-
mitment to an ancient rule.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, may I
inquire how much time is remaining
for each side.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Kentucky has 181⁄2 min-
utes remaining. The gentleman from
Maryland has 7 minutes remaining.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Wis-
consin (Mr. GROTHMAN).
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker,
prior to talking about the Census, I
just want to make one brief point in re-
sponse to some of the debate on the
other side. I will give some of the
speakers a little bit of a project here.
When we say the Pledge of Alle-
giance, we pledge allegiance to the flag
and the Republic for which it stands,
and perhaps some of the speakers on
the other side can do a little research
as to why we pledge allegiance to the
Republic.
Today, again, we are debating be-
cause of a potential question on the
Census. There are certain people who
feel that it would be wrong to ask
about citizenship on the Census.
I can tell you, as a lawmaker, I would
certainly like to know how many peo-
ple in this country are citizens. I would
also like to know how many people are
legal or illegal, both of which may af-
fect decisions we make, formulas we
make here.
I have a bill up—in the past; I al-
ready introduced it this year—that
says that people who are noncitizens
shouldn’t be eligible for public bene-
fits. If that bill were ever to become
law, I can easily imagine distributions
of money from this place being affected
by the results on a Census like that.
Other countries do not have problems
getting numbers if they ask about citi-
zenship. Canada doesn’t have a prob-
lem. Mexico doesn’t have a problem.
That is why the United Nations rec-
ommends we ask about citizenship.
It didn’t result in bad Censuses until
1950. It doesn’t result in bad results on
the long form or bad results on the
Community Survey. It doesn’t result in
problems in the State of Wisconsin,
where we have a citizenship question
that you have to answer prior to get-
ting a driver’s license.
So I wish we would put away this res-
olution today. I don’t think it is right
to spend more time debating the Cen-
sus question.
I hope if this does not appear on this
Census, that it is eventually put on the
Census for 2030.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished
gentlewoman from the District of Co-
lumbia (Ms. NORTON).
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
thank my good friend for courageously
bringing this contempt resolution to
the House today.
The authority and the very integrity
of the House of Representatives has
been challenged by this administration
as never before in American history. If
it were not for the Supreme Court, this
administration’s determination to de-
liberately prevent an accurate Census
count would have succeeded.
Neither the President nor the Repub-
lican House has the support of a major-
ity of the American people.
Using Secretary Ross, the adminis-
tration tried to cheat its way to an
undercount. Both Attorney General
Barr and Secretary Ross have gone out
of their way to refuse to provide needed
documents or offered pretexts for not
providing them pursuant to valid sub-
poenas.
So serious has been this obstruction
that the House must seek criminal con-
tempt, which can carry stiff penalties
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.060 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5948 July 17, 2019
and prison time, or simply surrender to
the administration and invite con-
tinuing obstruction of our ability to
perform our legislative and oversight
functions.
To be sure, we fully recognize the dif-
ficulty of enforcement of criminal con-
tempt against this administration by
this administration, but the House
would as soon surrender its authority
as to take no action in the face of his-
toric and willful defiance.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. JORDAN), my friend, the distin-
guished ranking member of the Over-
sight Committee.
Mr. JORDAN. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. COMER) for yielding and
for his great work on the committee.
Secretary Ross and Attorney General
Barr are doing their jobs. So what is
their reward? Democrats are going to
hold them in contempt.
Both agencies, the Commerce Depart-
ment and the Justice Department,
have submitted 31,000 documents to the
committee. They have made available
all kinds of witnesses for depositions
and transcribed interviews. In fact, we
have got another one happening later
this month.
And the Secretary himself sat for
over 6 hours in a hearing answering
every single question the committee
had. He raised his hand, said he swore
to tell the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, so help him God,
and answered all the questions. And
what does he get for it? Democrats are
going to hold him in contempt.
And why are they doing this? All be-
cause they don’t want a simple ques-
tion on the Census: Are you a citizen of
the United States of America? That
one sentence is driving it all.
Are you a citizen of the greatest na-
tion in history is driving it all.
They are going to hold two people
doing their jobs in contempt, all be-
cause we don’t want to do what has
been done for 200 years in this country.
Since 1820, in one form or another, we
have been asking the citizenship ques-
tion on the Census. They are going to
hold them in contempt.
All because they don’t want to do
what the U.N. says is the best practice,
they are going to hold them in con-
tempt.
All because they don’t want to do
what is just plain old common sense.
Listen to what Justice Alito said in
his opinion a couple weeks ago: ‘‘No
one disputes that it is important to
know how many inhabitants of this
country are citizens, and the most di-
rect way to gather that information is
to ask it in a Census.’’
Shazam. Imagine that. The best way
to figure it out is to ask people in the
country that you are surveying. Holy
cow.
And here is the kicker; here is the
final thing: You go anywhere—go any-
where—in this country, any State you
want to go to, some small town, some
big city, walk up the street and ask
someone on the street: Do you think
when we do the Census to figure out
how many people are in this country, it
is appropriate to ask if you are a cit-
izen?
Every person you talk to, every sin-
gle one of them will say: Well, heck
yeah. And, oh, by the way, aren’t we
doing that already.
You would have to say: Yes. We have
been doing it for 200 years.
This resolution is ridiculous, and we
should vote it down.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I want to just re-
mind our distinguished ranking mem-
ber, when he talks about quoting from
the courts, we might want to look at
what the Supreme Court said about the
language that Secretary Ross used in
our committee, because it is the same
language used in the Supreme Court
case.
What the Supreme Court said was
that that was ‘‘contrived,’’ and that is
a quote, and incongruent with what the
record reveals. In other words, he was
saying it was not accurate. He may
have come to testify before us, but it
wasn’t accurate.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the distinguished gentlewoman from
the Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT), a
member of our committee.
Ms. PLASKETT. Madam Speaker, I
want to respond first to the distin-
guished gentleman from California
(Mr. MCCARTHY), the minority leader,
when he talked about us doing work.
He asked us if work was being done
here in Congress and said that we
weren’t responding to the daily needs
of America.
Madam Speaker, I would remind him
and remind the Speaker that we, in
fact, have passed the Violence Against
Women Act in the Judiciary Com-
mittee. The Energy and Commerce
Committee passed the prescription
drug bill that came to this floor. The
Energy and Commerce Committee is
working on Medicaid as we speak, right
now.
So 150 bills have been passed by this
body and are sitting on the desk of his
friend, the Senate leader, MITCH
MCCONNELL, who has decided that he is
not interested in the work of the peo-
ple of the United States.
But guess what. We can walk and
chew gum at the same time, as I have
said. This committee’s responsibility is
oversight, not anything else. And that
is what we are doing is oversight of
this administration.
I know that is difficult for that side
of the aisle to want to think about,
overseeing and reining in individuals
who may be acting outside of the law.
Last year when Secretary Ross testi-
fied before Congress, he said he added
the citizenship question solely to help
the Department of Justice enforce the
Voting Rights Act. We understand now
that may not have been true.
And he has given us unresponsive—
that is a legal term—unresponsive doc-
uments in those thousands of docu-
ments that he has turned over to us,
not the documents that we have asked
for.
It is our responsibility as the Over-
sight Committee to hold individuals re-
sponsible. I would ask that my col-
leagues across the aisle consider their
responsibility on this committee if you
want to sit on the committee, to do the
work of the committee, and that is
overseeing this administration. I think
that we have done our job, and we are
doing it well.
Madam Speaker, if he has not been
responsive, we must hold him in con-
tempt.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. HICE).
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Madam Speak-
er, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
The problem is that this is not the
way we are supposed to go about the
business of oversight. Contempt resolu-
tions are generally something that
happens deep inside and deep within an
ongoing investigation when the com-
mittee has run up against brick walls
and has exhausted all possibilities be-
fore then.
That is certainly not the case here.
We are in the middle of an investiga-
tion into Federal agencies that are
complying with our requests. This is
absurd.
b 1515
The Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee has held six transcribed inter-
views with witnesses. Another one is on
the way within days. The Commerce
Department and the Justice Depart-
ment have produced over 31,000 pages,
documents, combined—14,000 from
Commerce and 17,000 from Justice.
These are not things that happen when
we are talking about Federal agencies
that are stonewalling an investigation.
That simply is not what is happening
here.
This investigation has only been
going on for a couple of short months.
I would like to remind this Chamber
that it wasn’t too long ago that then-
Ranking Member CUMMINGS was cau-
tioned himself against pursuing a reso-
lution of contempt in 2012, and that
was after a year of stonewalling by the
Obama administration. We are just a
couple of months into this one.
If these Federal agencies were legiti-
mately stonewalling an investigation,
as the Obama administration did, I
would certainly feel differently, and I
am sure others here would, as well. But
they are not stonewalling, and the
facts simply don’t support this con-
tempt resolution.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues not to support this.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. MEADOWS).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.061 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5949
July 17, 2019
Mr. MEADOWS. Madam Speaker, I
want to make a point that in this body
now on 2 consecutive days, we have
broken the rules of Congress to expe-
dite things.
In this particular contempt resolu-
tion, I want to make sure that the
RECORD reflects that we broke rule 2(f)
on the committee about notice. It was
brought to the attention of the chair-
man, and here we are again going and
violating the rules of this House, not
rules that the minority put in place,
but rules that the majority put in
place. We gave the chairman the
chance to perfect this procedural prob-
lem, and yet they continued on to hold
this contempt violation.
I can tell you, they may vote today
to hold them in contempt, but it is a
violation of Congress’ very rules itself
that should have been remedied. I ask
that the gentleman opposite withdraws
his resolution so that we can perfect
this.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from North Dakota (Mr. ARM-
STRONG).
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Speaker,
upon assuming the chairmanship of the
committee in January 2019, the chair-
man of the Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee formally initiated an inquiry
into Secretary Ross’ decision to re-
institute the citizenship question on
the 2020 census.
Just recently, as of June 27, 2019, the
Supreme Court has issued a ruling. The
Supreme Court ruled that the adminis-
tration may ask a citizenship question,
but rejected the rationale presented by
Secretary Ross for adding the question
on the 2020 census.
The committee’s fact-finding is still
active and ongoing. The administration
is cooperating with the investigation.
The DOC and the DOJ have produced
31,000 responsive documents—14,000
from the DOC and 17,000 from the DOJ.
The committee has held six transcribed
interviews with witnesses, and a sev-
enth interview is expected.
In short, Madam Speaker, the Judici-
ary Committee has already held Bill
Barr in contempt for not violating Fed-
eral law. And now the Oversight and
Reform Committee is about to hold
Bill Barr in contempt for cooperating
with the committee. This is wrong.
This is not how we are supposed to do
business in this Chamber.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT).
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, this
is such a disturbing time for those of
us who have spent our adult lives try-
ing to see that justice is done, laws are
followed, and yet here we again come
after Attorney General Bob Barr and
another Cabinet official, Ross.
The truth is, I didn’t really know Bob
Barr when he got nominated. I knew
that he was friends with Bob Mueller.
That caused me concern. But it appears
we have an attorney general who is
concerned about justice and he is con-
cerned about stopping injustices. And
yet, we still have people who are want-
ing to cause as much trouble for the
President and stop his administration
from getting as much accomplished for
the American people as possible.
It has got to stop at some point. It is
like a game, we come here and we are
going to hold him in contempt again.
This is a double secret probation
against Bob Barr. How many double,
triple, quadruple secret probations are
we going to do? This isn’t going to
amount to anything.
If you take this to any Federal judge
to try to enforce it, he or she will look
at the procedure and go: This is ridicu-
lous. You are not going to have me
hold the attorney general in contempt
for trying to follow the law, and you
are wanting to interrupt his efforts to
follow the law. That is not happening.
So this is all about a show, when
there is true injustice going on. Thank
God that we have a President who
wanted to see justice done. He knew he
didn’t collude. And now we have an at-
torney general who is trying to do the
same thing.
Madam Speaker, let’s say no to this
contempt. Let’s get back to doing the
job that the American people want us
to do.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I think that just
about everyone who spoke on our side
of the aisle made the factual points
that this is not necessary. This resolu-
tion is an ongoing attempt by the ma-
jority party to try to do anything they
can to disrupt the Presidency of our
President of the United States.
Every country, just about, in the
world asks the citizenship question.
Mexico and Canada ask the citizenship
question. In fact, the United Nations
recommends that countries ask the
citizenship question.
I don’t for the life of me know why
we would resort to this type of action
in this body, especially after what hap-
pened yesterday. I wonder, Madam
Speaker, is this an attempt to try to
move the direction of the American
people from their frustration at the
lack of achievement by the majority
party from a legislative standpoint to
try to somehow enrage their anger at
the President?
This is unnecessary. This is more po-
litical theater, and I urge the Members
of this fine body to oppose this resolu-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker,
may I inquire as to how much time is
left?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Maryland has 2 minutes
remaining.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, some of my col-
leagues have argued that holding Sec-
retary Ross and Attorney General Barr
in contempt of Congress is premature.
That is simply not true. If anything, it
is long overdue.
The Department of Commerce and
the Department of Justice have failed
to comply with congressional requests
for more than a year. The Oversight
and Reform Committee Democrats
first asked for documents from the De-
partment of Commerce in April of 2018
and from the Department of Justice
May of 2018. Those requests were ig-
nored.
When I became chairman, I renewed
those requests. In response, the admin-
istration produced thousands of pages.
But most of the documents were either
heavily redacted, already public, or
nonresponsive to the committee’s re-
quest. So the committee narrowed its
request and issued bipartisan sub-
poenas to compel production of that
narrow group of documents. That was
in April, more than 3 months ago.
I even asked Secretary Ross to meet
with me personally. He refused.
And, last month, the committee
passed the bipartisan resolution before
us to hold Secretary Ross and Attorney
General Barr in contempt of Congress.
Still neither department has provided
the documents that we have asked for.
So I have come to the floor to urge
our Members to vote in favor of this. I
do not, again, bring this lightly. This is
not theater. This is about doing our
job. This is about protecting the integ-
rity of not only our census, but of our
Congress.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members
to vote for this resolution, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the previous
question is ordered on the resolution.
The question is on adoption of the
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. PIN-
GREE). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX,
the Chair will postpone further pro-
ceedings today on motions to suspend
the rules on which a recorded vote or
the yeas and nays are ordered, or votes
objected to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.063 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5950 July 17, 2019
INSPECTOR GENERAL PROTECTION
ACT
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1847) to require congressional no-
tification for certain changes in status
of inspectors general, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1847
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Inspector
General Protection Act’’.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF
CHANGE IN STATUS OF INSPECTOR
GENERAL.
(a) CHANGE IN STATUS OF INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL OF OFFICES.—Section 3(b) of the Inspec-
tor General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, is placed on paid or un-
paid non-duty status,’’ after ‘‘is removed
from office’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘, change in status,’’ after
‘‘any such removal’’; and
(3) by inserting ‘‘, change in status,’’ after
‘‘before the removal’’.
(b) CHANGE IN STATUS OF INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL OF DESIGNATED FEDERAL ENTITIES.—
Section 8G(e)(2) of the Inspector General Act
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, is placed on paid or un-
paid non-duty status,’’ after ‘‘office’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘, change in status,’’ after
‘‘any such removal’’; and
(3) by inserting ‘‘, change in status,’’ after
‘‘before the removal’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. PRESIDENTIAL EXPLANATION OF FAIL-
URE TO NOMINATE AN INSPECTOR
GENERAL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter III of chapter
33 of title 5, United States Code, is amended
by inserting after section 3349d the following
new section:
‘‘§ 3349e. Presidential explanation of failure
to nominate an Inspector General
‘‘If the President fails to make a formal
nomination for a vacant Inspector General
position that requires a formal nomination
by the President to be filled within the pe-
riod beginning on the date on which the va-
cancy occurred and ending on the day that is
210 days after that date, the President shall
communicate, within 30 days after the end of
such period, to Congress in writing —
‘‘(1) the reasons why the President has not
yet made a formal nomination; and
‘‘(2) a target date for making a formal
nomination.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 33 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to 3349d the following new
item:
‘‘3349e. Presidential explanation of failure to
nominate an Inspector Gen-
eral.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act and
shall apply to any vacancy first occurring on
or after that date.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure before us.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to sup-
port the Inspector General Protection
Act, which would improve the inde-
pendence of inspectors general.
This bipartisan bill, introduced by
Representative TED LIEU and Rep-
resentative JODY HICE, would also ad-
dress the disturbingly slow nomination
of IGs that have been the norm across
multiple administrations.
The bill would require notification of
Congress 30 days prior to an IG being
placed on leave. Such notification is al-
ready required prior to an IG being re-
moved from duty.
The bill would also require the Presi-
dent to report to Congress if he has not
nominated an IG after 210 days of a va-
cancy occurring.
The report must include the reasons
for failing to make the nomination and
a target date for doing so. The require-
ment will hopefully prod the executive
branch to nominate IG’s in a more
timely manner.
b 1530
Inspectors general provide critical
oversight and accountability within
Federal agencies, and the positions
need to be filled more quickly than is
currently the case.
Madam Speaker, I urge Members to
support this bipartisan bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1847, the In-
spector General Protection Act. I
thank Representative TED LIEU for
working in a bipartisan manner on this
legislation. H.R. 1847 will help ensure
that inspectors general vacancies
across Federal agencies will be filled in
a timely manner.
Inspectors general play an important
role in improving the operations of the
Federal Government. They help com-
bat fraud, waste, and abuse throughout
executive branch departments and
agencies and promote a resourceful and
effective Federal Government.
They have assisted us with dis-
charging one of our most important re-
sponsibilities, shining the light on
areas of the government that need im-
proved efficiency and economy.
However, throughout both Repub-
lican and Democratic administrations,
there have been numerous vacant in-
spector general positions. Certain
agencies have experienced prolonged
periods of absent inspector general
leadership.
For example, the Department of the
Interior has been without a permanent
inspector general since 2009. Likewise,
there are approximately 13 vacant in-
spector general positions for agencies
covered by the Inspector General Act.
This bill would require the President
to timely notify Congress of a failure
to nominate an inspector general for a
given agency. The President would also
be required to explain why a nomina-
tion has not yet been made and provide
a target date for that nomination.
The bill also calls for increased
transparency by requiring the Presi-
dent to notify Congress if an inspector
general is placed on leave or changes
status.
Inspectors general are an indispen-
sable tool to Congress. By ensuring the
Federal Government is adequately
staffed with inspectors general, we are
reaffirming our commitment to root-
ing out government fraud, waste, and
abuse.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan leg-
islation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
distinguished gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. TED LIEU), the sponsor of
this legislation.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam
Speaker, first, let me thank the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA)
and the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. KELLER) for their comments in
support of this legislation.
I rise today in support of my bipar-
tisan bill, H.R. 1847, the Inspector Gen-
eral Protection Act, which will en-
hance the independence and integrity
of our IGs.
Since Congress passed the original
Inspector General Act in 1978, these
government watchdogs have played a
crucial role in our democracy. They
root out waste, fraud, mismanagement,
and abuse at all levels of government,
saving American taxpayers billions of
dollars annually and ensuring that gov-
ernment programs benefit the people.
According to the nonpartisan Council
of the Inspectors General on Integrity
and Efficiency, taxpayers saved $32.7
billion in fiscal year 2017 from audit
recommendations. That is a $22 return
on every dollar invested.
Unfortunately, both Democratic and
Republican administrations have ham-
strung our IGs with persistent vacan-
cies and underfunded budgets. Accord-
ing to the Project on Government
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.065 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5951
July 17, 2019
Oversight, vacancies of permanent in-
spectors general is not a new problem
or one that is unique to this adminis-
tration. This issue has persisted for
years under both Democratic and Re-
publican leadership. The Department of
the Interior, for example, has lacked a
Senate-confirmed inspector general for
over a decade.
But it is not just vacancies that have
been problematic. In a committee re-
port, the Senate Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Af-
fairs noted that ‘‘another type of per-
sonnel action has the potential for
doing significant damage to OIG inde-
pendence if abused: placing an IG on in-
definite paid or unpaid nonduty sta-
tus.’’
My bill will address both of these
problems.
First, H.R. 1847 requires notification
of Congress in advance of an inspector
general being placed on administrative
leave. This ensures Congress is aware
of any potential attempts to improp-
erly sideline an inspector general.
Second, the bill requires the Presi-
dent to report to Congress if an inspec-
tor general has not been nominated
within 210 days after a vacancy occurs
for the position, including the reasons
a nomination has not been made and a
target date for doing so.
This reasserts Congress’ oversight
role and allows Members to question,
on an informal basis, the decision of
any future administration to leave core
offices vacant.
As Senator CHUCK GRASSLEY told The
Washington Post in 2017, ‘‘Independent,
nonpartisan IGs can be some of the
President’s best allies in finding and
cutting waste, fraud, and abuse in the
bureaucracy.’’
I agree with that statement. That is
why I look forward to working with my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle, as
well as the U.S. Senate, toward getting
this commonsense bill signed into law.
I am grateful to my colleague from
Georgia (Mr. HICE) for partnering with
me on this legislation and to Chairman
CUMMINGS and Ranking Member JOR-
DAN for recognizing the importance of
strengthening our Nation’s inspectors
general.
I am also proud that this bill has re-
ceived the endorsement of good-govern-
ment groups across the ideological
spectrum, including Project on Govern-
ment Oversight, R Street Institute,
American Oversight, Campaign for Ac-
countability, Common Cause, and Pub-
lic Citizen.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting good
governance by voting ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I have
no further speakers. I urge all of my
colleagues to support this bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
ROUDA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1847, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ACCESS TO CONGRESSIONALLY
MANDATED REPORTS ACT
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 736) to require the Director of the
Government Publishing Office to estab-
lish and maintain an online portal ac-
cessible to the public that allows the
public to obtain electronic copies of all
congressionally mandated reports in
one place, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 736
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Access to
Congressionally Mandated Reports Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CONGRESSIONALLY MANDATED REPORT.—
The term ‘‘congressionally mandated re-
port’’—
(A) means a report that is required by stat-
ute to be submitted to either House of Con-
gress or any committee of Congress or sub-
committee thereof; and
(B) does not include a report required
under part B of subtitle II of title 36, United
States Code.
(2) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the Government Publishing
Office.
(3) FEDERAL AGENCY.—The term ‘‘Federal
agency’’ has the meaning given that term
under section 102 of title 40, United States
Code, but does not include the Government
Accountability Office.
(4) OPEN FORMAT.—The term ‘‘open format’’
means a file format for storing digital data
based on an underlying open standard that—
(A) is not encumbered by any restrictions
that would impede reuse; and
(B) is based on an underlying open data
standard that is maintained by a standards
organization.
(5) REPORTS ONLINE PORTAL.—The term ‘‘re-
ports online portal’’ means the online portal
established under section (3)(a).
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF ONLINE PORTAL FOR
CONGRESSIONALLY MANDATED RE-
PORTS.
(a) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH ONLINE
PORTAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Direc-
tor shall establish and maintain an online
portal accessible by the public that allows
the public to obtain electronic copies of all
congressionally mandated reports in one
place. The Director may publish other re-
ports on the online portal.
(2) EXISTING FUNCTIONALITY.—To the extent
possible, the Director shall meet the require-
ments under paragraph (1) by using existing
online portals and functionality under the
authority of the Director.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out this
Act, the Director shall consult with the
Clerk of the House of Representatives, the
Secretary of the Senate, and the Librarian of
Congress regarding the requirements for and
maintenance of congressionally mandated
reports on the reports online portal.
(b) CONTENT AND FUNCTION.—The Director
shall ensure that the reports online portal
includes the following:
(1) Subject to subsection (c), with respect
to each congressionally mandated report,
each of the following:
(A) A citation to the statute requiring the
report.
(B) An electronic copy of the report, in-
cluding any transmittal letter associated
with the report, in an open format that is
platform independent and that is available
to the public without restrictions, including
restrictions that would impede the re-use of
the information in the report.
(C) The ability to retrieve a report, to the
extent practicable, through searches based
on each, and any combination, of the fol-
lowing:
(i) The title of the report.
(ii) The reporting Federal agency.
(iii) The date of publication.
(iv) Each congressional committee or sub-
committee receiving the report, if applica-
ble.
(v) The statute requiring the report.
(vi) Subject tags.
(vii) A unique alphanumeric identifier for
the report that is consistent across report
editions.
(viii) The serial number, Superintendent of
Documents number, or other identification
number for the report, if applicable.
(ix) Key words.
(x) Full text search.
(xi) Any other relevant information speci-
fied by the Director.
(D) The date on which the report was re-
quired to be submitted, and on which the re-
port was submitted, to the reports online
portal.
(E) To the extent practicable, a permanent
means of accessing the report electronically.
(2) A means for bulk download of all con-
gressionally mandated reports.
(3) A means for downloading individual re-
ports as the result of a search.
(4) An electronic means for the head of
each Federal agency to submit to the reports
online portal each congressionally mandated
report of the agency, as required by section
4.
(5) In tabular form, a list of all congres-
sionally mandated reports that can be
searched, sorted, and downloaded by—
(A) reports submitted within the required
time;
(B) reports submitted after the date on
which such reports were required to be sub-
mitted; and
(C) reports not submitted.
(c) NONCOMPLIANCE BY FEDERAL AGEN-
CIES.—
(1) REPORTS NOT SUBMITTED.—If a Federal
agency does not submit a congressionally
mandated report to the Director, the Direc-
tor shall to the extent practicable—
(A) include on the reports online portal—
(i) the information required under clauses
(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) of subsection (b)(1)(C);
and
(ii) the date on which the report was re-
quired to be submitted; and
(B) include the congressionally mandated
report on the list described in subsection
(b)(5)(C).
(2) REPORTS NOT IN OPEN FORMAT.—If a Fed-
eral agency submits a congressionally man-
dated report that is not in an open format,
the Director shall include the congression-
ally mandated report in another format on
the reports online portal.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.067 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5952 July 17, 2019
(d) DEADLINE.—The Director shall ensure
that information required to be published on
the online portal under this Act with respect
to a congressionally mandated report or in-
formation required under subsection (c) is
published—
(1) not later than 30 calendar days after the
information is received from the Federal
agency involved; or
(2) in the case of information required
under subsection (c), not later than 30 cal-
endar days after the deadline under this Act
for the Federal agency involved to submit in-
formation with respect to the congression-
ally mandated report involved.
(e) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN REPORTS.—
(1) EXCEPTION DESCRIBED.—A congression-
ally mandated report which is required by
statute to be submitted to a committee of
Congress or a subcommittee thereof, includ-
ing any transmittal letter associated with
the report, shall not be submitted to or pub-
lished on the reports online portal if the
chair of a committee or subcommittee to
which the report is submitted notifies the
Director in writing that the report is to be
withheld from submission and publication
under this Act.
(2) NOTICE ON PORTAL.—If a report is with-
held from submission to or publication on
the reports online portal under paragraph
(1), the Director shall post on the portal—
(A) a statement that the report is withheld
at the request of a committee or sub-
committee involved; and
(B) the written notification specified in
paragraph (1).
(f) FREE ACCESS.—The Director may not
charge a fee, require registration, or impose
any other limitation in exchange for access
to the reports online portal.
(g) UPGRADE CAPABILITY.—The reports on-
line portal shall be enhanced and updated as
necessary to carry out the purposes of this
Act.
SEC. 4. FEDERAL AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES.
(a) SUBMISSION OF ELECTRONIC COPIES OF
REPORTS.—Not earlier than 30 calendar days
or later than 45 calendar days after the date
on which a congressionally mandated report
is submitted to either House of Congress or
to any committee of Congress or sub-
committee thereof, the head of the Federal
agency submitting the congressionally man-
dated report shall submit to the Director the
information required under subparagraphs
(A) through (D) of section 3(b)(1) with respect
to the congressionally mandated report.
Nothing in this Act shall relieve a Federal
agency of any other requirement to publish
the congressionally mandated report on the
online portal of the Federal agency or other-
wise submit the congressionally mandated
report to Congress or specific committees of
Congress, or subcommittees thereof.
(b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 240 calendar
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, in consultation with the Direc-
tor, shall issue guidance to agencies on the
implementation of this Act.
(c) STRUCTURE OF SUBMITTED REPORT
DATA.—The head of each Federal agency
shall ensure that each congressionally man-
dated report submitted to the Director com-
plies with the open format criteria estab-
lished by the Director in the guidance issued
under subsection (b).
(d) POINT OF CONTACT.—The head of each
Federal agency shall designate a point of
contact for congressionally mandated re-
ports.
SEC. 5. CHANGING OR REMOVING REPORTS.
(a) LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY TO CHANGE OR
REMOVE REPORTS.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), the head of the Federal agen-
cy concerned may change or remove a con-
gressionally mandated report submitted to
be published on the reports online portal
only if—
(1) the head of the Federal agency consults
with each committee of Congress or sub-
committee thereof to which the report is re-
quired to be submitted (or, in the case of a
report which is not required to be submitted
to a particular committee of Congress or
subcommittee thereof, to each committee
with jurisdiction over the agency, as deter-
mined by the head of the agency in consulta-
tion with the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the President pro tempore
of the Senate) prior to changing or removing
the report; and
(2) a joint resolution is enacted to author-
ize the change in or removal of the report.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (a), the head of the Federal agency
concerned—
(1) may make technical changes to a report
submitted to or published on the online por-
tal; and
(2) may remove a report from the online
portal if the report was submitted to or pub-
lished on the online portal in error.
SEC. 6. RELATIONSHIP TO THE FREEDOM OF IN-
FORMATION ACT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this Act shall
be construed to—
(1) require the disclosure of information,
records, or reports that are exempt from
public disclosure under section 552 of title 5,
United States Code; or
(2) impose any affirmative duty on the Di-
rector to review congressionally mandated
reports submitted for publication to the re-
ports online portal for the purpose of identi-
fying and redacting such information or
records.
(b) REDACTION OF INFORMATION.—The head
of a Federal agency may redact information
required to be disclosed under this Act if the
information would be properly withheld from
disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United
States Code, and shall—
(1) redact information required to be dis-
closed under this Act if disclosure of such in-
formation is prohibited by law;
(2) redact information being withheld
under this subsection prior to submitting the
information to the Director;
(3) redact only such information properly
withheld under this subsection from the sub-
mission of information or from any congres-
sionally mandated report submitted under
this Act;
(4) identify where any such redaction is
made in the submission or report; and
(5) identify the exemption under which
each such redaction is made.
SEC. 7. IMPLEMENTATION.
(a) REPORTS SUBMITTED TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—This Act shall apply with
respect to any congressionally mandated re-
port which—
(A) is required by statute to be submitted
to the House of Representatives or Senate at
any time before, on, or after the date of the
enactment of this Act; or
(B) is included by the Clerk of the House of
Representatives or the Secretary of the Sen-
ate (as the case may be) on the list of reports
received by the House of Representatives or
Senate (as the case may be) at any time be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) TRANSITION RULE FOR PREVIOUSLY SUB-
MITTED REPORTS.—The Director shall ensure
that any congressionally mandated report
described in paragraph (1) which was re-
quired to be submitted to Congress by a stat-
ue enacted before the date of the enactment
of this Act is published on the online portal
under this Act not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) REPORTS SUBMITTED TO COMMITTEES.—
In the case of congressionally mandated re-
ports which are required by statute to be
submitted to a committee of Congress or a
subcommittee thereof, this Act shall apply
with respect to—
(1) any such report which is first required
to be submitted by a statute which is en-
acted on or after the date of the enactment
of this Act; and
(2) to the maximum extent practical, any
congressionally mandated report which was
required to be submitted by a statute en-
acted before the date of enactment of this
act unless—
(A) the chair of the committee, or sub-
committee thereof, to which the report was
required to be submitted notifies the Direc-
tor in writing that the report is to be with-
held from publication; and
(B) the Director publishes the notification
on the online portal.
SEC. 8. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous materials on the measure before
us.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I thank Representa-
tive MIKE QUIGLEY for his persistence
in pursuing this good-government leg-
islation. Hopefully, we can get this bill
enacted this Congress.
H.R. 736, the Access to Congression-
ally Mandated Reports Act, is a non-
controversial bill that has been ap-
proved by the Oversight and Reform
Committee many times. The bill is a
commonsense measure that would
make the government more trans-
parent and accountable. It would cre-
ate a one-stop-shop where Congress and
members of the public could access
agency reports to Congress.
Federal agencies submit thousands of
reports to Congress each year. This bill
will improve congressional oversight
by making it easy to find and access
these reports. H.R. 736 would also give
the public access to agency reports.
Currently, members of the public
often have to file requests under the
Freedom of Information Act to obtain
some agency reports to Congress. Many
of these reports are not available on-
line.
An online library of Federal reports
would improve the ability of our staffs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.016 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5953
July 17, 2019
to use the information in them to
make sound policy. It also would en-
courage agency compliance with re-
porting requirements. Finally, it would
support timely access to the reports by
State and local governments, students,
academics, and others, with the addi-
tional benefit of decreasing the burden
on agencies to process FOIA requests.
The Access to Congressionally Man-
dated Reports Act has been endorsed
by over 25 organizations from across
the political spectrum. I have a letter
from those groups that I include in the
RECORD.
JULY 16, 2019.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, REPUBLICAN LEADER
MCCARTHY, AND MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES: We, the 27 undersigned or-
ganizations, write to express our strong sup-
port for the bipartisan Access to Congres-
sionally Mandated Reports Act (‘‘ACMRA’’)
and to respectfully urge you to vote in favor
of the legislation on the House floor. If en-
acted, the ACMRA will strengthen Congres-
sional oversight and improve government
transparency.
The ACMRA will establish a central reposi-
tory of agency reports submitted to Congress
and will track whether agencies have sub-
mitted required reports. This will improve
Members of Congress’s access to the reports
and ensure Congress knows when they be-
come available.
The ACMRA also directs agencies to pro-
vide the Government Publishing Office
(GPO) any report that is both required by
law to be submitted to Congress and is re-
leasable under the Freedom of Information
Act (‘‘FOIA’’), subject to certain limitations.
The legislation will not change what infor-
mation is in the public sphere, but it will im-
prove accessibility. Nor does the legislation
affect in any way what information is pro-
vided to Congressional committees or place
any burden upon them.
Under the ACMRA, agency reports will be-
come publicly available on GPO’s website
within 30 days of submission to Congress,
and will be redacted in accordance with
FOIA’s provisions, which include the re-
moval of classified or otherwise confidential
material. Reports will be assigned a unique
identifier that will make it easy to track re-
ports as new editions are released.
Additionally, the Congressional Research
Service will supplement work already per-
formed by the Clerk of the House to identify
all agency reports the law requires be sub-
mitted to Congress. This will tell us whether
an agency has complied with its obligation
to submit reports in a timely fashion.
The Senate Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs Committee favorably re-
ported a similar version of the bill in April.
Additionally, the legislation was repeatedly
favorably reported by both the Committee
on House Administration and the Committee
on Oversight and Government Reform during
prior Congresses.
The ACMRA was first introduced in 2010,
and we are hopeful it will become part of this
Congress’s transparency legacy.
We appreciate your thoughtful consider-
ation of the measure and are hopeful the
ACMRA will be enacted shortly.
Sincerely yours,
American Association of Law Libraries,
American Library Association, Americans
for Prosperity, Campaign for Accountability,
Center for Data Innovation, Center for Re-
sponsive Politics, Demand Progress, Data
Coalition, Essential Information, Free Gov-
ernment Information, Freedom Works, Gov-
ernment Information Watch, GovTrack.us,
Judicial Watch.
Liberty Coalition, Lincoln Network, Na-
tional Coalition for History, National Immi-
grant Justice Center, National Security Ar-
chive, PEGI Project, Project On Government
Oversight, R Street Institute, Senior Execu-
tives Association, Society of Professional
journalists, Sunlight Foundation, Taxpayers
for Common Sense, Win Without War.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, legisla-
tion similar to this bill has been intro-
duced in the Senate and favorably re-
ported by the Senate Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 736, the Access to Congres-
sionally Mandated Reports Act spon-
sored by my colleague from Illinois
(Mr. QUIGLEY).
Federal agencies are required to
produce numerous reports to Congress
each year. The reports cover a wide
range of topics that give valuable in-
sight into government activities.
While some reports are posted on
agency websites, most are not avail-
able online. It is incredibly difficult for
the general public to find reports, espe-
cially older reports. Keep in mind that
these are reports that the taxpayers
paid for in the first place.
H.R. 736 will solve this problem. The
bill directs the Federal Government to
compile all congressionally mandated
reports in a central location.
The Government Publishing Office
would be required to establish an on-
line database where agencies would
submit congressionally mandated re-
ports. In order to protect sensitive in-
formation, the bill allows agencies to
redact information in reports that
would otherwise not be releasable to
the public under the Freedom of Infor-
mation Act.
The database would provide access to
reports free of charge. The reports
would be searchable, sortable, and
available to be downloaded in bulk.
H.R. 736 ensures that these taxpayer-
funded reports are transparent and ac-
cessible. It will make it easier for both
the public and Congress to review and
evaluate Federal agency activities. In-
creased transparency under this bill
will allow the public to help Congress
hold the government accountable.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Illi-
nois (Mr. QUIGLEY), a distinguished
Member and sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I will keep my com-
ments brief because this bipartisan,
commonsense bill is simple.
H.R. 736 would make all agency re-
ports to Congress, and releasable under
FOIA, available on one website at no
cost to the American public.
Each year, Federal agencies submit
thousands of reports to Congress that
contain a wealth of information that
enables the public to better understand
how Federal agencies are, or are not,
fulfilling their respective missions,
from ensuring the safety of our drugs
and food supply to protecting the envi-
ronment and monitoring the soundness
of our financial institutions.
Unfortunately, many, if not most, of
these reports simply sit collecting dust
in the committees they are delivered
to or are posted in numerous and con-
fusing places on dozens of agency
websites, rarely to be seen or thought
of again.
In fact, the only comprehensive list
of congressionally mandated reports is
printed in paper format each year by
the Clerk of the House and is available
only by request, provided that one
knows it exists.
My bill would, for the first time, cre-
ate a single website where the public
and Members of Congress can easily
search, sort, and download all congres-
sionally mandated reports from agen-
cies.
Ultimately, this will help us conduct
better research and oversight of these
agencies and will allow the public to
learn about what agencies are doing
with their hard-earned tax dollars.
This bill is meant to be a window
into the workings of government to en-
sure that the government’s business is
done transparently and is accountable
to the people it serves.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this straight-
forward, commonsense bill and vote
‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 736.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers. I urge my
colleagues to support this bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I have
no further speakers. I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
ROUDA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 736, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
LUCAS LOWE POST OFFICE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1250) to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 11158 Highway 146 North in
Hardin, Texas, as the ‘‘Lucas Lowe
Post Office’’, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1250
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.069 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5954 July 17, 2019
SECTION 1. LUCAS LOWE MEMORIAL POST OF-
FICE.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 11158
Highway 146 North in Hardin, Texas, shall be
known and designated as the ‘‘Lucas Lowe
Memorial Post Office’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the facility re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Lucas Lowe Memorial
Post Office’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous materials on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
b 1545
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to join
my colleagues in consideration of H.R.
1250 to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at
11158 Highway 146 North in Hardin,
Texas, as the Lucas Lowe Memorial
Post Office.
Chief Warrant Officer Lucas Lowe’s
life was defined by a call to service. On
July 6, 2004, Lucas enlisted in the
United States Army. He was deployed
to Afghanistan for 11 months from 2005
and 2006, and Iraq for 14 months from
2007 to 2008. Lucas later attended War-
rant Officer Candidate School at Fort
Rucker, Alabama, where he also en-
rolled in flight school to become an
AH–64 Apache attack helicopter pilot.
On December 28, 2016, Chief Warrant
Officer Lucas Lowe passed way during
a training flight with the Army Na-
tional Guard. Lucas demonstrated in
his short life the kind of commitment
to service that should be an example to
all of us. He leaves behind to cherish
his memory his wife, Kami; sons, Clay-
ton, Lance, and Logan; and daughters,
Alysen and Tenley Lowe.
Naming a post office in Lucas Lowe’s
honor in Hardin, Texas, is a fitting
tribute to honor and remember a young
man who made the ultimate sacrifice
in service to all of us.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BABIN).
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 1250, a bill to
designate the U.S. Postal Service facil-
ity in Hardin, Texas, as the ‘‘Lucas
Lowe Memorial Post Office’’.
As my colleagues know, to fast-track
a postal legislation, we collect co-
sponsorships from every other member
of the State’s delegation. When you
come from a State as large as the State
of Texas, this can certainly be easier
said than done. Although everything is
bigger in Texas, I am proud to inform
you that we have the support of all 36
members of the Lone Star State of
Texas’ delegation to honor this Amer-
ican hero, Lucas Maurice Lowe, with
the naming of a memorial post office.
Chief Warrant Officer 2nd Lucas
Lowe of Hardin, Texas, was tragically
lost to us during a training flight just
after Christmas in 2016 during his time
in the Texas Army National Guard. A
hardworking man who loved being in
the service, Lowe especially loved to
fly.
After enlisting in the Army in 2004,
Lowe completed an 11-month tour in
Afghanistan in 2005 to 2006 and a 14-
month tour in Iraq in 2007 to 2008. He
later attended Warrant Officer Can-
didate School in Fort Rucker, Ala-
bama, where he also attended flight
school to become an AH–64 Apache at-
tack helicopter pilot. He was an amaz-
ing soldier who faithfully served both
God and his country.
However, when the world lost Lucas,
we lost more than a dedicated pilot. We
lost a man who always went out of his
way to lift others’ spirits and encour-
aged them to reach for higher success
in life.
Lucas was a wonderful family man
who loved his wife, his children, and
his family more than anything else. He
loved his children more than life itself.
He loved camping in the woods, hunt-
ing, fishing, campfires, and good music.
He enjoyed dancing, playing golf, cook-
ing, and singing to brighten someone’s
day. He always had a way of making
someone’s day better.
Admired by all, his courage and dedi-
cation made him a natural-born leader.
He touched the lives of all who knew
him, and he lived his life with an opti-
mistic spirit, always ready to take on
the next big challenge.
Lucas is survived by his wife, Kami;
and five children, Clayton, Lance,
Alysen, Logan, and Tenley.
He is dearly, dearly missed through-
out the Texas Guard, the entire Hardin
community and Liberty County, and
by those family and friends he left be-
hind.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I have
no further speakers, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 1250 introduced by Rep-
resentative BABIN. The bill names a
post office located in Hardin, Texas, in
honor of Army Chief Warrant Officer
Lucas Lowe.
Lucas Lowe joined the United States
Army in 2004. He served an 11-month
deployment in Afghanistan, followed
by a 14-month deployment in Iraq.
While deployed, Lowe served as a field
artillery radar operator and then as a
paratrooper.
When he returned home, Lowe at-
tended Warrant Officer Candidate
School and flight school at Fort
Rucker, Alabama. Chief Warrant Offi-
cer Lowe was then assigned to the
149th Aviation Regiment in the Texas
National Guard.
On December 28, 2016, Chief Warrant
Officer Lowe lost his life during a
training accident while flying an
Apache helicopter.
He left behind a wife, three sons, and
two daughters.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I have
no further speakers, I urge all the
Members to support this bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
ROUDA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1250, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to designate the fa-
cility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 11158 Highway 146 North
in Hardin, Texas, as the ‘Lucas Lowe
Memorial Post Office’.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EVA G. HEWITT POST OFFICE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1526) to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 200 Israel Road Southeast in
Tumwater, Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G.
Hewitt Post Office’’.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1526
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EVA G. HEWITT POST OFFICE.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 200
Israel Road Southeast in Tumwater, Wash-
ington, shall be known and designated as the
‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Office’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the facility re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Of-
fice’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.020 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5955
July 17, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to join
my colleagues in consideration of H.R.
1526, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at
200 Israel Road Southeast in
Tumwater, Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G.
Hewitt Post Office.’’
Eva Hewitt was not just a business
woman and postmaster, but she was
often described as the heart and soul of
Tumwater.
With her husband, Charles Hewitt,
Eva established the Hewitt Drug Store
which housed the Tumwater Post Of-
fice. Eva Hewitt started as an assist-
ant, and later assumed the role of post-
master in 1915. Following the death of
her husband in 1927, Eva Hewitt took
over business operations of the drug-
store with the help of her daughter,
Laura.
Eva would continue to serve as post-
master until 1942. At the time, Eva
Hewitt was the longest serving post-
master in Tumwater, where she
oversaw a massive growth in the vol-
ume of mail in the Pacific Northwest.
Eva Hewitt also was a community
leader and was widely regarded as
Tumwater’s local historian. She was
also active in the Daughters of the Pio-
neers of Washington and was the name-
sake of the Eva Hewitt Orthopedic
Guild. The Hewitt Drug Store was
eventually demolished for the con-
struction of Interstate 5.
Naming a post office to honor Ms.
Hewitt’s public service would help en-
sure that her pivotal legacy to her
home of Tumwater, Washington, lives
on.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 1526 introduced by Rep-
resentative HECK. The bill names a
post office located in Tumwater, Wash-
ington, after Eva Hewitt.
Eva Hewitt was Tumwater’s first fe-
male postmaster. Before becoming
postmaster, Eva and her husband
owned and operated a drugstore in the
small town they called home. The
drugstore housed the Tumwater Post
Office, and Eva started working there
as an assistant.
In 1915 she assumed the role of post-
master and served there nearly three
decades. Following the death of her
husband in 1927, Eva took over the fam-
ily business and served in both posi-
tions until her retirement in 1942.
Often described as the heart and soul
of Tumwater, Eva was a community
leader and a local historian. She spent
her free time researching, preserving,
and educating the public on the history
of the Pacific Northwest.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
distinguished gentleman from Wash-
ington (Mr. HECK), who is the sponsor
of the legislation.
Mr. HECK. Madam Speaker, today in-
deed I do rise in strong support of H.R.
1526, a bill to honor the life and legacy
of Eva G. Hewitt by renaming the Post
Office in Tumwater, Washington, in her
honor.
A few blocks from where we stand
today is the Smithsonian Postal Mu-
seum, a museum that preserves and
promotes postal history from every
era. In it you can read about the rural
letter carriers. This is personal with
me. As it turns out, my grandfather
was a rural postal delivery member of
the post office from 1905 to 1944. Out of
Henrietta, Texas, he for many years de-
livered the mail on horseback. One of
the biggest days of his life was when he
got a Model T. He, in fact, delivered
letters right up to the day he died in
1944. You can read about him and a lot
of other people in the museum.
Most notably you can learn about the
women trailblazers who built the post-
al service into what it is today, women
like Sarah DeCrow who in 1792 became
the very first woman postmaster; or
Ethel Hill, who in 1900 became the first
woman listed as a full-time rural deliv-
ery carrier.
This year, in celebration of the city
of Tumwater’s 150th anniversary—they
call that the sesquicentennial—they
are sharing many of the stories there
about their own women trailblazers,
women like Eva G. Hewitt. She was in-
deed Tumwater’s first woman post-
master during a very pivotal time in
Tumwater’s history. So it is fitting to
rename the post office for her.
In 1893 she and her husband, Charles,
purchased that drugstore alluded to
earlier right in the heart of Tumwater,
and their drugstore became known as
Hewitt Drug Store. It was the center of
the community, and it housed a store
and, yes, a soda fountain, and the post
office, all under one roof.
She started as an assistant there,
but—get this—prior to that time her
husband was the postmaster, but it
turns out when the Postal Service
adopted civil service rules, she and her
husband both took the examination.
And guess what?
She passed; he didn’t; she became the
postmaster in 1915. It sounds like some-
thing that would happen in my home.
So following the death of her hus-
band in 1927, she took over the business
and served there until her retirement
in 1942. She was the very first person to
hold the position of Tumwater post-
master. At the time of her retirement
she was also the longest serving post-
master in that city’s history which
dates back to 1824.
During her decades at the store, she
saw a massive growth in mail volume
throughout the Pacific Northwest. As a
matter of fact, she once remarked that
the volume at the Tumwater Post Of-
fice in terms of monthly mail in 1942
was equivalent to annual mail at the
turn of the century.
Yes, indeed, the store was torn down
and the post office was torn down to
help make way for Interstate 5, the
main arterial between Canada and
Mexico that runs throughout the West
Coast.
Although the drugstore may be gone,
her legacy isn’t. As postmaster, as
business woman, and as community
member, it lives on. So I was delighted
when the city approached me about
this long overdue recognition for Eva.
Very few post offices, let us note, are
named for women, much less the
women who carried out the mission of
the Postal Service.
In fact, take note, of the 823 post of-
fices that have been renamed, only 98
of them have been renamed for
women—less than 12 percent. We have
got a parity issue here, Madam Speak-
er. That is why I am even more than
proud to introduce and support this
bill.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank the
Olympia Tumwater Foundation for
helping to tell Eva’s story. I thank the
city of Tumwater for sharing her story
with our community. And I want to
thank all the members of my delega-
tion who joined in to cosponsor this.
Eva has earned her place in the South
Sound history books that she helped
write.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to
support this bill to rename the
Tumwater Post Office in her honor,
and I urge my colleagues to support
this legislation.
b 1600
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers. I urge my
colleagues to support this bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I
would like to thank the gentleman
from Washington for his comments and
also encourage all of the Members to
support this bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
ROUDA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1526.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CORPORAL ALEX MARTINEZ ME-
MORIAL POST OFFICE BUILDING
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1844) to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illi-
nois, as the ‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez
Memorial Post Office Building’’.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.075 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5956 July 17, 2019
H.R. 1844
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CORPORAL ALEX MARTINEZ MEMO-
RIAL POST OFFICE BUILDING.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 66
Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, shall be
known and designated as the ‘‘Corporal Alex
Martinez Memorial Post Office Building’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the facility re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Corporal Alex Mar-
tinez Memorial Post Office Building’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend remarks and include
extraneous material on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to join
my colleagues in consideration of H.R.
1844, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at
66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the
Corporal Alex Martinez Memorial Post
Office Building.
Madam Speaker, I yield such time as
he may consume to the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI).
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA).
Madam Speaker, I would like to rise
in support of my own legislation, H.R.
1844, to designate the facility of the
U.S. Postal Service located at 66 Grove
Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the Corporal
Alex Martinez Memorial Post Office
Building.
Corporal Alex Martinez, a lifelong
Elgin resident, wanted to join the Ma-
rine Corps since he was a little boy.
From a young age, he yearned to follow
in the footsteps of his father, Enrique
Martinez, who was a longtime Navy re-
servist, and an aunt who served in the
Army.
As a senior in high school, with his
whole life ahead of him, he decided to
follow his dreams. He surprised his
friends and family by attending sum-
mer school to graduate early, enlist in
the Marine Corps, and marry his high
school sweetheart, Juliana Martinez,
at the age of 18.
After graduation from basic training,
Corporal Martinez was assigned to the
1st Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Ma-
rine Division, One Marine Expedi-
tionary Force, where he excelled as a
combat engineer. In this role, he had
the dangerous but crucial responsi-
bility to guide ground forces away from
life-threatening obstacles, such as le-
thal improvised explosive devices.
In his second deployment on April 5,
2012, a unit that Corporal Martinez was
guiding began receiving enemy fire.
Despite facing an immediate threat to
his own life, he continued to calmly
and systematically clear lanes for ma-
rines to maneuver against the enemy.
Tragically, Corporal Martinez was
killed after an explosive device deto-
nated in Helmand province. In that mo-
ment, Alex Martinez became the first
and only Elgin native to fall in combat
since the terror attacks on September
11.
While in Afghanistan, Corporal Mar-
tinez would tell his loved ones his plans
to start a family and to continue his
selfless service by becoming a fireman
or a police officer. But as a con-
sequence of his sacrifices to this great
Nation and the people who inhabit it,
he never could pursue those dreams.
Madam Speaker, you and I and the
many Members of this Chamber are
fortunate to live in a diverse nation
with innumerable freedoms, but we can
only enjoy these freedoms and the
peace and prosperity that accompany
them because of the sacrifices made by
Corporal Martinez and the millions of
men and women who dedicate their
lives to defend our democracy.
To honor Corporal Martinez’s honor-
able sacrifices to this country, to rec-
ognize the sacrifice of his loved ones,
and to express solidarity with all serv-
icemembers and veterans in the United
States, I strongly urge my colleagues
to support H.R. 1844.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 1844, introduced by Rep-
resentative KRISHNAMOORTHI. This bill
names the post office located in Elgin,
Illinois, in honor of Marine Corporal
Alex Martinez.
Alex Martinez knew he was destined
for public service since he was a little
boy. He had a two-phased plan. First,
he would join the military, following in
his father’s footsteps. Then, upon re-
tirement, he would continue in public
service as a police officer or firefighter.
Shortly after high school, Alex joined
the United States Marine Corps, filling
step one of his boyhood dream. After
boot camp, he was assigned to the 1st
Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Marine
Division.
Corporal Martinez was deployed
twice to Afghanistan in support of Op-
eration Enduring Freedom. On April 5,
2012, Corporal Martinez was conducting
combat operations in the Helmand
province of Afghanistan and was killed
after an explosive device detonated.
While Corporal Martinez’s life of
service was tragically cut short, his
sacrifice and bravery will not be for-
gotten. I urge my colleagues to support
this bill, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I have
no further speakers.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
this bill, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
ROUDA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1844.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RYAN KEITH COX POST OFFICE
BUILDING
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3305) to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 2509 George Mason Drive in
Virginia Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan
Keith Cox Post Office Building’’.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3305
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. RYAN KEITH COX POST OFFICE
BUILDING.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 2509
George Mason Drive in Virginia Beach, Vir-
ginia, shall be known and designated as the
‘‘Ryan Keith Cox Post Office Building’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the facility re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Ryan Keith Cox Post
Office Building’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to join
my colleagues in consideration of H.R.
3305, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at
2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia
Beach, Virginia, as the Ryan Keith Cox
Post Office Building.
Madam Speaker, I yield such time as
she may consume to the gentlewoman
from Virginia (Mrs. LURIA) to further
explain her bill.
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and heroic ac-
tions of Ryan Keith Cox.
On May 31, the year’s largest mass
shooting in America struck in our Vir-
ginia Beach community. Keith was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.021 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5957
July 17, 2019
amongst the 12 wonderful people who
lost their lives in the tragedy. In his
final moments, Keith showed extraor-
dinary bravery.
Keith was an active and irreplaceable
member of our community. He regu-
larly attended his father’s church, New
Hope Baptist Church, where he sang in
the choir with his renowned golden
voice. He had hoped to follow his call-
ing and his father’s footsteps and be-
come more active in the ministry.
For 12 years, Keith served the city of
Virginia Beach as a public utilities em-
ployee. His coworkers described him as
someone who was always nice to others
and treated colleagues to lunch. One
colleague called Keith a ‘‘teddy bear’’
who always knew what to say to make
an upset colleague smile.
Those who knew him said Keith em-
bodied leadership. Keith’s friends and
family agreed that he made his impact
by putting the needs of others before
his own. Keith’s last day on Earth was
no different.
During the shooting, Keith led sev-
eral of his coworkers to safety. Keith
then refused to take refuge, stating:
‘‘I’ve got to see if anybody else needs
help.’’
Keith stood watch and checked on his
colleagues, voluntarily exposing him-
self to a deadly line of fire. One of
Keith’s colleagues summed it up: ‘‘If it
wasn’t for him, there would have been
several more people who perished.’’
In our community’s darkest hour,
Keith prioritized the safety of his col-
leagues over his own. He was a true
servant leader who made the ultimate
sacrifice.
This is our chance to tell Keith’s
story, to showcase his heroism to our
community, our Commonwealth, and
our Nation. I was proud to introduce
this bill to name a local post office
after Keith. When we walk by that post
office and see Keith’s name, we will
think of the sacrifice and of the lives
that he saved.
I thank the Virginia delegation for
supporting this bipartisan legislation
to honor Keith’s legacy and impact on
our Virginia Beach community.
Madam Speaker, I urge support of
this bill.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 3305, introduced by Rep-
resentative LURIA. The bill names a
post office located in Virginia Beach,
Virginia, in honor of Ryan Keith Cox.
Ryan Keith Cox served the city of
Virginia Beach for 12 years. He worked
in the Public Works Department as an
account clerk until he was murdered,
saving the lives of his friends and co-
workers earlier this year.
On the morning of May 31, 2019, a city
employee resigned from his job at the
municipal building where Cox work.
That afternoon, the former employee
returned with evil intentions.
When a coworker ran into the office
with news that there was an active
shooter, Keith remained calm and
thought only of how to keep other co-
workers safe. He led them to the safety
of a small room and directed them to
barricade the door.
Then, despite the danger, he contin-
ued to look for more of his colleagues.
By the time the shooting stopped,
Keith was among the 12 innocent vic-
tims who were killed. His surviving
colleagues remember him as a kind,
soft-spoken, and big teddy bear.
Madam Speaker, Keith’s heroics will
not be forgotten. I urge my colleagues
to support this bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I en-
courage my colleagues to support this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 3305, Desig-
nating the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 2509 George Mason Drive
in Virginia Beach, Virginia as the ‘‘Ryan Keith
Cox Post Office Building.’’ I appreciate my col-
league, the gentlelady from Virginia, Mrs.
LURIA, for introducing this bill.
Ryan Keith Cox is a Virginia Beach hero, a
distinguished public servant and one whose
legacy will live on forever. We will remember
Ryan for his heroic actions during the Virginia
Beach massacre on May 31, 2019. He saved
dozens of lives by helping his colleagues find
a safe space to hide during the mass shooting
at the Virginia Beach Municipal Center. He
was killed protecting two of his coworkers
guarding a cubicle door while his coworkers
huddled on the floor beneath two desks.
The Virginia Beach community will remem-
ber Ryan as a cherished friend and one who
always put others before himself. He was soft
spoken, encouraging, positive and considered
by all to be ‘‘a good man’’.
He was active in his Church and partici-
pated in Anointed Voices, Men of Hope, the
Male Chorus and the Men’s Ministry at New
Hope Baptist Church.
Madam Speaker, the designation of this
post office in Ryan Keith Cox’s honor will for-
ever remind us of his valor and his 12-year
long career with the City of Virginia Beach. I
urge my colleagues to support this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
ROUDA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3305.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
65TH INFANTRY REGIMENT POST
OFFICE BUILDING
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2325) to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 100 Calle Alondra in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry
Regiment Post Office Building’’.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2325
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. 65TH INFANTRY REGIMENT POST OF-
FICE BUILDING.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 100
Calle Alondra in San Juan, Puerto Rico,
shall be known and designated as the ‘‘65th
Infantry Regiment Post Office Building’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the facility re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘65th Infantry Regi-
ment Post Office Building’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to join
my colleagues in consideration of H.R.
2325, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at
100 Calle Alondra San Juan, Puerto
Rico, as the 65th Infantry Regiment
Post Office Building.
In 1899, a year after the Spanish-
American War, Congress authorized the
creation of a unit of volunteer soldiers
in the new territory of Puerto Rico.
Redesignated in 1920 as the 65th Infan-
try Regiment of the United States
Army, this unit served admirably in
World War II and the Korean war.
In World War II, the 65th Infantry
Regiment suffered casualties defending
against enemy attacks, with regiment
members earning one Distinguished
Service Cross, two Silver Stars, two
Bronze Stars, and 90 Purple Hearts.
In the Korean war, when General
MacArthur ordered the evacuation of
the Hungnam enclave, the 65th Infan-
try Regiment played a crucial role, and
ultimately, under the Regiment’s pro-
tection, 105,000 troops and 100,000 refu-
gees were evacuated.
These brave Americans protected the
very foundation of this great country.
Naming a post office to honor the 65th
Infantry Regiment who served and sac-
rificed for us is but a small price of
what these brave men and women de-
serve from the country to whom they
have given so much.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.081 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5958 July 17, 2019
Madam Speaker, I yield as much
time as she may consume to the gen-
tlewoman from Puerto Rico (Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN), my friend.
b 1615
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Speaker, I thank Mr.
KELLER for the opportunity.
I am very humbled but, at the same
time, very proud to rise in support of
H.R. 2325, legislation that I introduced
to designate the United States Postal
Service facility located at 100 Calle
Alondra in San Juan, Puerto Rico, as
the ‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post Of-
fice Building.’’
Shortly after Puerto Rico became a
U.S. territory in 1898, Congress author-
ized the creation of a unit of volunteer
soldiers on the island. Then, in 1920,
the unit was redesignated as the 65th
Infantry Regiment of the United States
Army, and it served as the Nation’s
last segregated unit, composed mainly
of Hispanic soldiers coming from Puer-
to Rico.
Members of this regiment—com-
monly known as The Borinqueneers
after the Taino word for ‘‘Puerto Rico’’
meaning ‘‘land of the brave lord’’—rep-
resent the best of our island’s proud
and rich tradition of military service.
Despite their relatively limited com-
bat service in World War II, the regi-
ment suffered casualties defending
against enemy attacks. Individual sol-
diers from this unit earned one Distin-
guished Service Cross, two Silver
Stars, two Bronze Stars, and 90 Purple
Hearts.
However, it was during the Korean
war that the 65th Infantry Regiment’s
patriotism and courage came to be
widely known and admired.
Fighting as a segregated unit from
1950 until 1952, the Borinqueneers par-
ticipated in some of the fiercest and
toughest battles of the war.
The Borinqueneers not only fought
the enemy on the battlefield, but they
also had to overcome negative stereo-
types held by some of their com-
manders and fellow soldiers.
Brigadier General William Harris,
who commanded the regiment during
the early stages of the Korean war,
would recall that he had been reluctant
to assume command of the unit just be-
cause of the prejudice within the mili-
tary, but that his experience eventu-
ally led him to regard the members of
the 65th Infantry Regiment as the best
soldiers he had ever seen.
General Douglas MacArthur, com-
mander in chief of the United Nations
Command in Korea, would similarly
write that ‘‘The Puerto Ricans forming
the ranks of the gallant 65th Infantry
give daily proof on the battlefields of
Korea of their courage, determination,
and resolute will to victory, their in-
vincible loyalty to the United States
and their fervent devotion to those im-
mutable principles of human relations
which the Americans of the continent
and Puerto Rico have in common. They
are writing a brilliant record of her-
oism in battle, and I am indeed proud
to have them under my command. I
wish that we could count on many
more like them.’’
For its extraordinary service during
the Korean war, the Borinqueneers re-
ceived many unit-level awards, includ-
ing two Presidential Unit Citations.
Soldiers in the regiment earned a total
of nine Distinguished Service Crosses,
approximately 250 Silver Stars, over
600 Bronze Stars, and more than 2,700
Purple Hearts.
Even 60 years later the laurels con-
tinued, as Master Sergeant Juan
Negron, who served in the 65th Infantry
Regiment, was posthumously awarded
the Medal of Honor, our Nation’s high-
est military decoration.
In 2014, actually, this same House en-
acted legislation to award the Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the
Borinqueneers. The 65th, consequently,
became the first Hispanic unit and the
sole unit from the Korean war to re-
ceive this distinction, and they were
the last unit to launch a battalion-
sized bayonet attack by the U.S. Army.
Madam Speaker, H.R. 2325 allows us
to continue honoring the
Borinqueneers’ service by designating
the U.S. Post Office in San Juan as the
‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post Office
Building.’’
This recognition is made even more
significant when considering that this
Federal building is located adjacent to
one of Puerto Rico’s main avenues. Do
you know the name? It is the 65th In-
fantry Regiment Avenue. That is how
proud we feel about our Borinqueneers.
The story of these soldiers is em-
blematic of the courage of thousands of
Puerto Rican soldiers who, for genera-
tions, have fought and bled alongside
their fellow Americans to defend the
United States across the world.
Madam Speaker, as Puerto Rico’s
sole representative in this Congress, I
urge my colleagues to join me in fur-
ther recognizing their sacrifice, their
legacy, by supporting this bill.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I
think that Representative GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN articulately pointed out why we
should all support H.R. 2325.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I, too,
encourage my colleagues to support
this bill.
Madam Speaker, I would like to
thank the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania for leading the minority discus-
sion today, the newest Member of Con-
gress. It is an honor to serve with him.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
ROUDA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2325.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 2447,
JOBS AND PREMIUM PROTEC-
TION ACT
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
be discharged from further consider-
ation of the bipartisan bill H.R. 2447,
the Jobs and Premium Protection Act,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 2207,
PROTECT MEDICAL INNOVATION
ACT
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means be dis-
charged from further consideration of
the bipartisan bill H.R. 2207, the Pro-
tect Medical Innovation Act, and ask
for its immediate consideration in the
House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
f
CONSENSUS CALENDAR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s designa-
tion, pursuant to clause 7(a)(1) of rule
XV, of H.R. 748 as the measure on the
Consensus Calendar to be considered
this week.
f
MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS
TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 748) to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise
tax on high cost employer-sponsored
health coverage, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 748
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Middle Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REPEAL OF EXCISE TAX ON HIGH COST
EMPLOYER-SPONSORED HEALTH
COVERAGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 43 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
section 4980I.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.083 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5959
July 17, 2019
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 6051 of such Code is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘section 4980I(d)(1)’’ in sub-
section (a)(14) and inserting ‘‘subsection (g)’’,
and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(g) APPLICABLE EMPLOYER-SPONSORED
COVERAGE.—For purposes of subsection
(a)(14)—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘applicable em-
ployer-sponsored coverage’ means, with re-
spect to any employee, coverage under any
group health plan made available to the em-
ployee by an employer which is excludable
from the employee’s gross income under sec-
tion 106, or would be so excludable if it were
employer-provided coverage (within the
meaning of such section 106).
‘‘(2) EXCEPTIONS.—The term ‘applicable
employer-sponsored coverage’ shall not in-
clude—
‘‘(A) any coverage (whether through insur-
ance or otherwise) described in section
9832(c)(1) (other than subparagraph (G) there-
of) or for long-term care,
‘‘(B) any coverage under a separate policy,
certificate, or contract of insurance which
provides benefits substantially all of which
are for treatment of the mouth (including
any organ or structure within the mouth) or
for treatment of the eye, or
‘‘(C) any coverage described in section
9832(c)(3) the payment for which is not ex-
cludable from gross income and for which a
deduction under section 162(l) is not allow-
able.
‘‘(3) COVERAGE INCLUDES EMPLOYEE PAID
PORTION.—Coverage shall be treated as appli-
cable employer-sponsored coverage without
regard to whether the employer or employee
pays for the coverage.
‘‘(4) GOVERNMENTAL PLANS INCLUDED.—Ap-
plicable employer-sponsored coverage shall
include coverage under any group health
plan established and maintained primarily
for its civilian employees by the Government
of the United States, by the government of
any State or political subdivision thereof, or
by any agency or instrumentality of any
such government.’’.
(2) Section 9831(d)(1) of such Code is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘except as provided in section
4980I(f)(4)’’.
(3) The table of sections for chapter 43 of
such Code is amended by striking the item
relating to section 4980I.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 3. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
(a) STATUTORY PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this Act shall not be en-
tered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained
pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
(b) SENATE PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this Act shall not be en-
tered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained
for purposes of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71
(115th Congress).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. NEAL) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KELLY)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Massachusetts.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on this bill
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 748, the Middle Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019.
After a decade of fiercely debating
the merits of the Affordable Care Act,
I hope we have turned a corner today
and can now focus on strengthening
the parts of the law that work in the
manner we had intended and changing
the parts of the law, which is not un-
usual, that we believe could be im-
proved.
This legislation, tirelessly cham-
pioned by Representative JOE COURT-
NEY of Connecticut, with 367 bipartisan
cosponsors, addresses the so-called
‘‘Cadillac tax,’’ a part of the law that
had the unintended consequences of re-
ducing healthcare benefits that were
provided to certain American workers.
More than 181 million Americans cur-
rently depend upon employer-sponsored
health insurance. That is the majority
of the American people, including re-
tirees, low-and moderate-income fami-
lies, public-sector employees, small
business owners, and nonprofit work-
ers.
While the name ‘‘Cadillac tax’’ im-
plies this excise tax only applies to
luxury health coverage, the truth is it
will eventually apply to almost every
American with employer-sponsored
health insurance.
At a time when American families
are already worried about the
healthcare costs that apply to them,
the Cadillac tax has had the effect of
increasing deductibles and out-of-pock-
et costs as employers make changes in
their plans designed to avoid the tax.
We have also found that the Cadillac
tax affects health plans that have high-
er numbers of workers with chronic
diseases or serious illnesses, that cover
more than a million women or fami-
lies, or that offer coverage to part-time
workers because premiums for those
plans are often higher.
This was not the goal of this tax
when it was originally included in the
ACA. I know because I helped to nego-
tiate and to write the Affordable Care
Act.
Congress wanted to encourage em-
ployers and insurance companies to
find ways to offer better coverage at
lower costs. And, while many actions
in the ACA did bend the cost curve,
leading to better care and slower cost
growth, this excise tax, indeed, did not.
We want employers to cover their
workers with robust, meaningful bene-
fits. A good American job with a strong
health benefit is part of security.
Employers want this for their em-
ployees, labor wants this for their
members, and American workers and
their families want to know they can
get the care they need when they need
it.
This legislation, as I noted earlier,
has strong bipartisan support with a di-
verse group of stakeholder organiza-
tions endorsing the legislation, from
labor to chamber of commerce to pa-
tient organizations.
If we fail to repeal the Cadillac tax,
we will leave working families with
less healthcare coverage, higher out-of-
pocket healthcare costs, and little to
no resultant wage increases.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, this is a great day
for us. We worked with Chairman NEAL
on this and JOE COURTNEY. I don’t nor-
mally go out on a limb, but it is nice to
see a bunch of Irish guys get together—
I am not sure you can say that any-
more in the people’s House—to make
sure that we are protecting so many
people who have earned healthcare
through their employer.
I think the last couple days, if you
were to look at what happened here in
the House and you were to go back
home and talk to people back home,
they would ask, ‘‘Can’t you guys get
along on anything? Can’t you put away
these things you fight over and actu-
ally start to talk about the things that
help us? Can’t you do things like
that?’’
We have watched it, Madam Speaker,
and I am sure people are back home
saying, ‘‘They can’t do anything.’’
Well, I am here to tell you today that
is just not true. You are going to see a
bipartisan effort today on a bipartisan
bill to make sure that hardworking
Americans get to keep their employer-
sponsored healthcare.
Those are people in labor unions.
Those are people in everyday busi-
nesses: small businesses, big busi-
nesses, all across the board.
What we are doing today is a move in
the right direction. What we are doing
today is truly bipartisan, and we hope
it becomes bicameral.
Today you are going to see both Re-
publicans and Democrats come to-
gether to do the right thing for the
right reasons, and good things are
going to come of that.
It just doesn’t get any better than
this, especially at a time when you go
back home and people just look at us
and say, ‘‘Holy smokes. On the floor of
the people’s House, you guys can’t get
along on anything?’’
Well, we are. We are going to get
along on something. And we are going
to do something that is really big, and
we are going to pass H.R. 748, the Mid-
dle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal
Act. It is also known as the Cadillac
tax.
I happen to be a Cadillac dealer. Cad-
illac has forever been described as the
standard of the world.
The healthcare piece we are talking
about is a standard of the world. And
so many times in the past it was de-
scribed as, this is just too darn gen-
erous for generations of people who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.028 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5960 July 17, 2019
went to the bargaining table and nego-
tiated, as part of their labor agree-
ments, healthcare.
b 1630
Too generous? Too good?
For all those who thought that was a
good statement or a good idea, that is
just too bad because it was terrible. It
made no sense.
Today, we are going to change that.
We are going to take the time we have
today on the floor to talk about it, to
talk to our colleagues and say we all
need to be on board with this.
By the way, the gentleman knows
this because we have been working on
it for a long time. It is the gentleman’s
bill this session, but it has gone back
and forth, depending on who the major-
ity is.
This is the end of today’s talking
when it comes to partisan gridlock be-
cause it is not going to happen. Much
like Mark Twain when he was overseas
one time, in London, and somebody
printed in the paper that Mark Twain
was not only ill but that he had died.
Mark Twain replied, ‘‘The reports of
my death are greatly exaggerated.’’
Let’s use that today when we talk
about the fact that we can’t get along
here in the people’s House.
The gentleman and I have worked
hard on this. Last Congress, we had 304
cosponsors. This Congress, our legisla-
tion has more than 370 cosponsors.
That is the majority of both parties,
Democratic and Republican.
Our bill is going to repeal this oner-
ous tax, originally passed as part of the
Affordable Care Act, that would have
been assessed on any health plan that
would provide more than $10,200 for in-
dividual coverage, $27,500 for family
coverage.
I deplore the fact that it was called
too generous for hardworking Ameri-
cans who get up every day and go off to
work to make sure they can put a roof
over the head of their family, food on
the table, clothes on the backs of their
kids, and somehow plan for the future.
If that is a bad benefit, I want to see
what a good one looks like.
According to researchers, it is pro-
jected—I think Chairman NEAL just
went over some of these numbers—that
75 percent of employer-sponsored
health plans would be affected if we
allow this tax to stand.
That was put in the Affordable Care
Act, but it was never enforced. Today,
we have a chance to do away with it
fully, just repeal it. That is what we
are trying to get to.
The groups that support this legisla-
tion go across the board. There are mil-
lions of workers waiting for us to do
something today to act in their best in-
terests. More than 665 organizations
have weighed in, in support of repeal-
ing this tax.
It is absolutely an incredible effort
that is going to take place today. I
can’t say this enough: It is a bipartisan
effort by the majority of both parties
to get this done for hardworking Amer-
icans, to protect not only themselves
but their families.
It is a benefit of generational nego-
tiations. It is an incredible piece of leg-
islation that we are going to get
through today.
I could keep talking about this for-
ever. I can’t wait to get back home
again to tell people we got it done.
Keep in mind, I am going to say that
‘‘we got it done,’’ not that ‘‘I got it
done.’’
I have never seen another place
where people take credit for legislation
that they had nothing to do with, that
they kind of inherited from previous
sessions and say, ‘‘Well, this is my
bill.’’
This is not my bill. This is a bill that
we have been trying to pull off for
many, many years, not just me, not
just JOE COURTNEY, but together, all of
us, Republicans and Democrats, acting
in the best interests of the people we
represent here on the floor of the peo-
ple’s House.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. DELBENE) is des-
ignated to control the balance of the
time and is recognized.
There was no objection.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY), the lead
sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman DELBENE for her
leadership managing this bill and the
Ways and Means Committee for em-
bracing it. Their advocacy sends a pow-
erful message to the House to pass the
Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Re-
peal Act of 2019.
I also thank my friend, Representa-
tive MIKE KELLY, for his bipartisan
support of the bill, defying the polar-
ized politics that too often dominates
the healthcare debate.
Madam Speaker, this bill today
comes with the support of more than
660 healthcare groups that represent
millions of Americans who have joined
together to repeal the 40 percent excise
tax on health plans scheduled to go
into effect in 2022.
Madam Speaker, this tax was a late
add-on to the Affordable Care Act de-
liberations and has been rattling
around inoperable in the Federal Tax
Code since 2010, never actually having
collected a penny of revenue but, none-
theless, casting a statutory shadow
over 180 million Americans’ health
plans, which we know, from HR admin-
istrators and employee reps in real life,
has added pressure to shift coverage
into higher deductible plans, which
falls on the backs of working Ameri-
cans.
As the Commonwealth Fund recently
reported, the number of Americans who
are underinsured as a result of high
deductibles has grown by over 50 per-
cent since 2005. The Kaiser Family
Foundation just reported that 31 per-
cent of employer health plans will get
hit by the excise tax in 2022, and that
number will skyrocket soon after.
Passage of this bill will lift the shad-
ow that hangs over employer-sponsored
plans and stop the high deductible
trend from worsening.
As the bill’s lead sponsor, I want to
foot stomp that the repeal of the tax
does not touch the architecture of the
ACA’s patient protections. Repeal is
completely severable from the other
440 sections of the law and leaves in-
tact essential health benefits and the
elimination of preexisting condition
exclusions and lifetime limits.
Given that those patient protections
have been in full operation for the last
10 years, during which this zombie tax
has been in a coma, it is abundantly
clear that the tax is disconnected from
the rest of the law.
Lastly, I want to underscore the CBO
determination that passage will not re-
sult in any increase in the number of
uninsured.
Madam Speaker, with 370 House co-
sponsors, I am hopeful that an over-
whelming tally tonight will send a
laser-like message to the Senate to
adopt this bill as soon as possible, as is.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD letters from Families USA, a
strong advocate for the ACA, as well as
the Council of Insurance Agents & Bro-
kers, in support of the bill, and a 2009
letter signed by 188 supporters of the
ACA in support of this repeal of the ex-
cise tax.
FAMILIESUSA,
July 15, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: On behalf of Families USA, a leading
national voice for health care consumers, I
write to offer our support for legislation that
will be considered by the full House of Rep-
resentatives this week, H.R. 748, the Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019.
This bipartisan legislation would repeal the
excise tax on high value employer-sponsored
health care coverage, also known as the
‘‘Cadillac Tax’’. At a time when almost half
of our nation’s families report that they are
forgoing needed medical care because they
cannot afford the care, policymakers should
make sure that employers doing the right
thing and providing high value health insur-
ance to their employees are supported, not
penalized with an egregious tax.
More than 181 million people—a majority
of the country—receive employer-sponsored
insurance. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) in-
cluded a provision to impose a 40 percent ex-
cise tax on high-cost and high-value em-
ployer-sponsored insurance (ESI) coverage.
This provision was recently delayed for a
second time, until 2022. While the tax would
be levied on employers, experts expect its
costs largely would be shifted to employees
and their families.
The Cadillac Tax is built on the suppo-
sition that by exposing our nation’s families
to even more financial vulnerability in their
health care, families will manage to bring
their own health care costs down. Creating
greater financial insecurity for families is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.086 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5961
July 17, 2019
not the answer. It is the primary responsi-
bility of policy makers, the health care sec-
tor, and the government to solve the health
care cost crisis. And your constituents agree.
More than 80 percent of people in this na-
tion—both Democrats and Republicans—be-
lieve it’s the responsibility of the govern-
ment to get control of out-of-control health
care costs.
H.R. 748 is an important opportunity for
Congress to support high quality health care
and the employers that provide it. In recent
years, deductibles in ESI plans have risen
considerably while costs have continued to
grow. The so-called ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ creates
the wrong incentive to employers around the
nation. What we need now is higher value in-
surance, not lower value coverage.
H.R. 748 has widespread, bipartisan sup-
port, and boasts 361 cosponsors, including 199
Democrats and 162 Republicans. We urge the
House of Representatives to support working
families and the employers providing these
families high quality health insurance and
pass H.R. 748 when it comes to the floor.
Sincerely,
FREDERICK ISASI,
Executive Director.
THE COUNCIL,
July 15, 2019.
Re H.R. 748, The Middle Class Health Bene-
fits Tax Repeal Act of 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAME SPEAKER: On behalf of The
Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers
(‘‘The Council’’), I write to express our mem-
bers’ strong support for H.R. 748, The Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019.
The legislation repeals the looming ‘‘Cad-
illac Tax’’ that undermines the employer
sponsored insurance market. The ‘‘Cadillac
tax’’ is a 40% tax on the value of employer-
sponsored health coverage that exceeds cer-
tain benefit thresholds—estimated to be
$11,100 for self-only coverage and $29,750 for
family coverage in 2022. We thank Congress-
man Joe Courtney and Mike Kelly for their
leadership on this important issue, and urge
members of the House of Representatives to
support H.R. 748.
By way of background, The Council rep-
resents the largest and most successful em-
ployee benefits and property/casualty agen-
cies and brokerage firms. Council member
firms annually place more than $300 billion
in commercial insurance business in the
United States and abroad. Council members
conduct business in some 30,000 locations and
employ upwards of 350,000 people worldwide.
In addition, Council members specialize in a
wide range of insurance products and risk
management services for business, industry,
government, and the public.
The ‘‘Cadillac Tax,’’ has been delayed
twice by Congress to protect Americans from
its harmful impact. But the latest imple-
mentation date of 2022 continues to cause an
adverse effect on the affordability and qual-
ity of health coverage available to employ-
ees and their families. The Kaiser Family
Foundation notes that deductibles have risen
89% since 2010, while wage growth has re-
mained comparatively flat.
The tax was intended to impact Americans
with ‘‘gold-plated’’ plans, but the reality is
that very modest plans covering low- and
moderate-income working families will trig-
ger the tax. More than 181 million Ameri-
cans—including retirees, low- and moderate-
income families, public-sector employees,
small business owners, nonprofit workers
and the self-employed—currently depend on
employer-provided health coverage. Em-
ployer provided coverage covers more Ameri-
cans than Medicare and Medicaid combined.
This tax has real and harmful con-
sequences—Americans cannot afford to pay
more for their health care.
Thank you again for your continued efforts
to address these important issues.
Best,
KEN A. CRERAR,
President/CEO, The Council.
JOEL WOOD,
SVP, Government Af-
fairs, The Council.
JOEL KOPPERUD,
VP, Government Af-
fairs, The Council.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, October 7, 2009.
Speaker PELOSI,
Office of the Speaker,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI: As Congress con-
tinues to consider revenue sources for Amer-
ica’s Affordable Health Choices Act and
other health insurance reform proposals, we
strongly encourage you to reject imposing
an excise tax on so called high cost insur-
ance plans. Such a tax would impact regions
with high health care costs in the short-
term, and, in the long-term, inevitably ex-
tend to more and more middle-income Amer-
icans across the country.
As you know, the Senate Finance Com-
mittee reform proposal, America’s Healthy
Future Act, currently includes a 40 percent
excise tax on insurers for plans that exceed
certain cost thresholds. Real life experience
with both health insurers and inelastic mar-
kets for services such as health insurance
has clearly warned us that this tax will be
passed along to insurance payers. Beginning
in 2013, the threshold for individual plans
will be $8,000 and $21,000 for family coverage.
In subsequent years, increases in the cost
thresholds will be tied to the Consumer Price
Index for urban consumers (CPI-U) plus one
percent. The proposal also includes a transi-
tion relief rule, which will set cost thresh-
olds 20 percent higher for the 17 highest cost
states. The transition relief rule will be
phased out by 2016. It is important to note
that the proposed thresholds for such a tax
already have been surpassed for many mid-
dle-income Americans in 2009.
For middle-income Americans that have
forgone wage and salary increases for strong
insurance benefits, these thresholds are sim-
ply too low. And, for middle-income Ameri-
cans who live in the nation’s highest cost re-
gions for health care, the transition relief
rule is also too low and phased out far too
soon.
A Commonwealth Fund report issued on
August 20, 2009, ‘‘Paying the Price: How
Health Insurance Premiums Are Eating Up
Middle-Class Incomes,’’ outlined projected
increases in insurance premiums if nothing
is done to change the current cost trajec-
tory. According to the report, average insur-
ance premiums will increase 94 percent over
the next ten years, with average annual in-
creases of 5.7 percent. The report went on to
conclude that average premium costs for
family coverage in 2015 will range from
$15,508 in the lowest cost state to $19,731 in
the highest cost state. Considering high and
low cost states will be treated the same with
regard to the proposed excise tax in 2015, the
average premium projections in high cost re-
gions teeter on the projected cost thresholds
of the excise tax.
Further, the lessons learned from the al-
ternative minimum tax (AMT) should also
serve as a warning for the creation of an ex-
cise tax on high cost insurance plans. Over
the past four decades, the AMT has morphed
from a tax on the wealthiest Americans to a
tax on the middle class. In 1969, when the
AMT was first enacted, the tax impacted
only the wealthiest of Americans. In 2010,
nearly one in five Americans will be sub-
jected to the tax. A similar situation with
the proposed excise tax is possible consid-
ering our experiences with medical inflation.
While America’s Affordable Health Choices
Act will work to rein in insurance premium
costs, these savings will be generated from
long-term fixes and may not substantially
mitigate premium costs in the short-term
before the costs of such an excise tax are
passed from the insurer to the customer, in-
cluding middle-income families.
Beyond these other arguments, there is a
fundamental flaw in assuming a tax on so
called high cost plans will sway choice of in-
surance coverage, and in turn, discourage
wasteful health care spending. This assump-
tion is based on access to a substantial
choice in coverage, which is certainly not
the case under our current system. Today,
small employers pay more for a given insur-
ance plan than a large employer— not be-
cause of benefit quality or an employees’ ex-
cessive use of plan benefits, but due to small-
er risk pools. While America’s Affordable
Health Choices Act will help close most of
these price discrepancies, this won’t be
achieved until 2018 when all reforms are en-
acted. Further, America’s Affordable Health
Choices Act will allow for continued use of
age rating with determining premium costs.
While age rating will be restricted, the prac-
tice underscores limited choice for cheaper
coverage options.
America’s Affordable Health Choices Act
includes sensible revenue sources to pay for
the legislation. However, inclusion of an ex-
cise tax on high cost insurance plans, as pro-
posed by the Senate Finance Committee,
could have significant and detrimental im-
plications for millions of middle-class Amer-
icans. The short-term impact would be great-
est on individuals and families living in high
cost regions and for those that have sac-
rificed pay increases for strong benefits.
Over the long term, the number of individ-
uals and families subjected to the tax would
likely continue to grow. To this end, we urge
you to continue to reject proposals to enact
an excise tax on high cost insurance plans
that could be potentially passed on the mid-
dle class families.
We look forward continuing to work with
you to advance health care reform legisla-
tion that expands coverage and lowers care
costs.
Sincerely,
JOE COURTNEY.
TIM WALZ.
ALLYSON SCHWARTZ.
MIKE ROSS.
COSIGNATORIES (190)
Courtney, Joe; Abercrombie, Neil; Acker-
man, Gary; Andrews, Robert; Arcuri, Mike;
Baca, Joe; Baldwin, Tammy; Berkley,
Shelly; Bishop, Sanford; Bishop, Tim; Blu-
menauer, Earl; Boccieri, John; Boren, Dan;
Boswell, Leonard; Boucher, Rick; Brady,
Robert; Braley, Bruce; Brown, Corrine;
Capps, Lois; Capuano, Michael; Cardoza,
Dennis; Carnahan, Russ; Carson, Andre;
Chandler, Ben; Christensen, Donna; Chu,
Judy; Clarke, Yvette; Clay, Lacy; Cleaver,
Emanuel; Cohen, Steve; Conyers, John; Cos-
tello, Jerry; Crowley, Joseph; Cummings,
Elijah; Dahlkemper, Kathy; Davis, Danny;
Davis, Lincoln; DeFazio, Peter; Delahunt,
Bill; DeLauro, Rosa; Dicks, Norman; Dingell,
John; Doggett, Lloyd; Doyle, Mike;
Driehaus, Steve; Edwards, Donna; Ellison,
Keith; Ellsworth, Brad; Engel, Eliot; Eshoo,
Anna; Farr, Sam; Fattah, Chaka; Filner,
Bob.
Foster, Bill; Frank, Barney; Fudge,
Marcia; Gonzalez, Charles; Garamendi, John;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.046 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5962 July 17, 2019
Grayson, Alan; Green, Al; Green Gene; Gri-
jalva, Raul; Gutierrez, Luis; Hall, John; Hal-
vorson, Debbie; Hare, Phil; Harman, Jane;
Hastings, Alcee; Heinrich, Martin; Higgins,
Brian; Himes, Jim; Hinchey, Maurice;
Hirono, Mazie; Hodes, Paul; Holden, Tim;
Holt, Rush; Honda, Mike; Inslee, Jay; Israel,
Steve; Jackson Jr., Jesse; Jackson-Lee, Shei-
la; Johnson, Eddie Bernice; Johnson, Hank;
Kagen, Steve; Kaptur, Marcy; Kennedy, Pat-
rick; Kildee, Dale; Kilpatrick, Carolyn
Cheeks; Kilroy, Mary Jo; Kucinich, Dennis;
Langevin, James; Larson, John; Lee, Bar-
bara; Levin, Sander; Lewis, John; Lipinski,
Dan.
Loebsack, David; Lofgren, Zoe; Lowey,
Nita; Lujan, Ben; Lynch, Stephen; Maffei,
Dan; Maloney, Carolyn; Markey, Edward;
Massa, Eric; Matsui, Doris; McCarthy, Caro-
lyn; McCollum, Betty; McDermott, Jim;
McGovern, Jim; McMahon, Michael; Meek,
Kendrick; Meeks, Gregory; Michaud, Mi-
chael; Miller, Brad; Miller, George; Mollo-
han, Alan; Moore, Dennis; Moore, Gwen;
Murphy, Chris; Murphy, Scott; Murtha,
John; Nadler, Jerrold; Napolitano, Grace;
Neal, Richard; Norton, Elanore Holmes;
Oberstar, James; Olver, John; Ortiz, Sol-
omon; Owens, Bill; Pascrell, Bill; Pastor, Ed;
Payne, Donald; Perlmutter, Ed; Perriello,
Thomas; Peters, Gary; Pingree, Chellie;
Quigley, Mike; Rahall, Nicek; Reyes,
Silvestre; Richardson, Laura; Rodriguez,
Ciro; Ross, Mike.
Rothman, Steve; Royal-Allard, Lucille;
Rush, Bobby; Ryan, Tim; Salazar, John; San-
chez, Linda; Sanchez, Loretta; Sarbanes,
John; Schakowsky, Janice; Schauer, Mark;
Schiff, Adam; Schrader, Kurt; Schwartz, Al-
lison; Scott, Bobby; Scott, David; Serrano,
Jose; Sestak, Joe; Shea-Porter, Carol; Sher-
man, Brad; Shuler, Health; Sires, Albio;
Slaughter, Louise; Space, Zach; Speier,
Jackie; Stark, Peter; Stupak, Bart; Sutton,
Betty; Teague, Harry; Thompson, Bennie;
Tierney, John; Titus, Dina; Tonko, Paul;
Towns, Edolphus; Van Hollen, Chris; Velaz-
quez, Nydia; Visclosky, Peter; Walz, Tim;
Wasserman Shultz, Debbie; Waters, Maxine;
Watson, Diane; Weiner, Anthony; Welch,
Peter; Wexler, Robert; Wilson, Charlie; Wool-
sey, Lynn; Wu, David; Yarmuth, John.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. NUNES).
Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I thank
Mr. KELLY for giving me time to speak
in support of H.R. 748, the Middle Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019.
This bill will provide much-needed re-
lief from one of the most burdensome
and blunt taxes in ObamaCare.
By repealing this tax, we will save
employers from paying a 40 percent tax
on high-cost employer-sponsored
health coverage. The bill will provide
much-needed relief not only for em-
ployers but for employees, some of
whom are low-income earners with
high-cost health benefits who are
forced to bear the repercussions of this
tax.
That said, I am disappointed that the
majority chose not to repeal the med-
ical device tax or the health insurance
tax, both of which are harming hard-
working Americans across the country.
The medical device tax is a 2.3 per-
cent excise tax on the value of medical
devices sold domestically. Making life-
saving products more expensive is not
good policy and should be included in
this repeal bill.
The health insurance tax, or HIT, is a
more than $100 billion sales tax on pri-
vate health insurance that affects
every private plan in the country. At a
time when we are all trying to lower
the cost of healthcare, why are the
Democrats in the majority preventing
us from removing this unnecessary and
burdensome tax?
This bill could do so much more, but
I am happy that the majority is finally
admitting that the ObamaCare tax in-
creases are bad for the country and
that good tax policy doesn’t need to be
replaced with more bad tax hikes.
At a time when much of our
healthcare system is failing, when
healthcare costs are still unaffordable
for many, when Medicare will be insol-
vent within a decade, and when Medic-
aid’s uncontrollable costs are bank-
rupting our States, it still leaves mil-
lions of low- and middle-income earn-
ers without access to doctors. We
should be working harder to provide
more access and choice to the Amer-
ican people in a fiscally responsible
way.
Madam Speaker, I support the repeal
of this tax, and I urge adoption of the
bill.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. LARSON).
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam
Speaker, I commend my colleague on
the Ways and Means Committee, MIKE
KELLY, for his hard work and diligence
in bringing this bill to the floor, as he
acknowledged, in a bipartisan way.
I think the gentleman and everybody
in this body understand and respect the
persistence, hard work, and dedication
of JOE COURTNEY. From its introduc-
tion and inception, from its first letter
to its more than 370 sponsors, ulti-
mately, he has demonstrated that, yes,
in this body, we can arrive at solutions
across the aisle, working together in
the common interest of every Amer-
ican citizen.
JOE COURTNEY was chairman of the
Public Health Committee in the Con-
necticut Legislature. He has forgotten
more about these programs than most
people will ever remember. But it is his
diligence, persistence, and ability to
work across the aisle that has brought
this legislation here today to be passed
unanimously.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Kansas (Mr. ESTES).
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 748, the Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act
of 2019.
This important bill repeals the so-
called Cadillac tax, a policy imple-
mented through ObamaCare that would
have placed a 40 percent tax on high-
cost employer healthcare plans.
The tax was originally included as a
way to help pay for the Patient Protec-
tion and Affordable Care Act, com-
monly called ObamaCare, by targeting
expensive health plans and insurance
companies. However, in practice, it
would have been middle-class workers
bearing the real burden to pay for it
through taxes. It would have hurt
union members, nonunion members,
small businesses, and nonprofits.
In fact, the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation and the Congressional Budget Of-
fice predicted that a whopping 70 per-
cent of the revenue collected by the
Cadillac tax would have come from
higher income and payroll taxes rather
than excise taxes on insurers.
This massive tax increase would have
devastated middle-class workers and
families, many of whom continue to
struggle with the rising costs of
ObamaCare as it is.
I thank my colleagues for realizing
the bad implications of this failed pol-
icy and for working in a bipartisan way
to repeal the Cadillac tax.
I am hopeful that today’s action will
allow us to move forward to address
similar policies, like the health insur-
ance tax and the medical device tax.
Instead of propping up the failed Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care
Act through higher taxes and reduced
choices, we must get serious about im-
proving healthcare and our economy.
Madam Speaker, I believe H.R. 748 is
a great first step, and I urge my col-
leagues to support it.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL).
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I
include the letters that I have in my
hand in the RECORD.
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF PRO-
FESSIONAL & TECHNICAL ENGI-
NEERS, AFL-CIO & CLC,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of 90,000
workers represented by the International
Federation of Professional and Technical En-
gineers (IFPTE), we are writing to urge you
to vote for the passage of H.R. 748, the Mid-
dle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act.
This important bipartisan legislation repeals
the 40 percent ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ on high-cost
employer-sponsored health care plans—set to
take effect in 2022—that millions of working
and retired Americans depend on.
Since the 40 percent excise tax was enacted
as part of the Patient Protection & Afford-
able Care Act, out of pocket health care
costs have continued to increase faster than
wages. At the bargaining table, workers in
all sectors of the economy are accepting
lower or no pay increases, and cuts to other
important benefits in exchange for an em-
ployer-provided health benefit that is both
affordable and meets the health needs of
their families. If this tax is not repealed,
millions of workers and retirees will see the
gains from these tradeoffs fall by the way-
side, while the underlying issues driving
health care costs will go unaddressed.
Analysis by the Congressional Research
Service and the Congressional Budget Office
shows that the costs of this tax will be
passed onto workers in the form of lower
wages, reduced benefits, and the loss of cov-
erage options. Even though the excise tax
has not taken effect yet, it has already af-
fected the benefits and quality of employer-
sponsored health insurance. Employers
themselves admit that they have little appe-
tite for providing a health care benefits that
could end up triggering the 40% excise tax.
In anticipation of the tax’s original effective
date in 2018, the American Health Policy In-
stitute reported in 2015 that ‘‘Almost 90 per-
cent of large employers are taking steps to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.043 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5963
July 17, 2019
try to prevent their company from having a
plan that triggers the excise tax.’’ In the fed-
eral sector, the OPM’s Federal Employees
Health Benefits Program carrier guidance
tells insurance companies to design plans to
avoid triggering the excise tax.
If the excise tax is allowed to take effect,
it will further burden working families in-
stead of addressing the factors that continue
to drive up the cost of health care. As it
stands, the excise tax will go into effect in
2022 on plans that exceed annual limits of
$11,500 for individual coverage and $31,100 for
family coverage and will be chained to infla-
tion. By and large, plans that will be subject
to the excise tax have high costs not due to
generous benefits, but because of demo-
graphic factors, geographic disparities, mar-
ket concentration, and risk pool size.
H.R. 748 has board support from affected
stakeholders, including unions, public and
private sector employers, health advocacy
organizations, and health insurance pro-
viders. Today, a bipartisan majority in the
House recognizes that the excise tax will re-
sult in reduced health benefits and coverage
options, lower wages and pension benefits,
hurt employers who are trying to provide
competitive benefits to employees, while
failing to address the real cost drivers in the
health care system.
Therefore, we urge you to vote for H.R. 748.
Sincerely,
PAUL SHEARON,
President.
MATTHEW BIGGS,
Secretary-Treasurer/
Legislative Director.
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS,
Upper Marlboro, MD, July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers (1AM), I strongly urge
you to support working families and vote
‘‘Yes’’ on the bipartisan Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal of 2019, H.R. 748. This
vital legislation introduced by Representa-
tives Joe Courtney (D–CT) and Mike Kelly
(R–PA) would rightly repeal the 40% health
benefits tax on employer-sponsored
healthcare before working Americans and
their families are further impacted by this
onerous tax.
In a time where so many Americans are
feeling the pinch of rising healthcare costs,
the so-called ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’, as it is com-
monly known, is a gut punch directed
squarely at the middle class and working
families. Despite several delays in its imple-
mentation, millions of Americans are al-
ready feeling the impact of the 40 percent
health benefits tax. They feel its impact at
the doctor’s office and at the bargaining
table as employers increase deductibles, re-
duce benefits, and drop plan options to pre-
pare for the tax’s looming threat. In order to
halt its harmful repercussions on American
workers, the tax must not simply be further
delayed, but swiftly repealed.
Originally, the 40% health benefits tax was
intended only to be levied only on ‘‘gold-
plated’’ health insurance plans with very
rich benefits. However, the realities of con-
tinued medical cost inflation, an aging work-
force, and new medical technologies are
pushing the cost of even modest plans above
the tax’s threshold. We also know that the
impact of the tax would disproportionately
burden certain demographics that often face
higher healthcare premiums. Plans hit by
the tax often cover more female employees,
more workers with dependent children, more
senior workers, employees at smaller busi-
nesses, and employees with physically de-
manding jobs.
To be clear, it is not employers or insur-
ance companies who will end up shouldering
the tax’s burden; it is workers and middle-
class families who end up floating the bill for
this regressive tax. Researchers at CUNY
School of Public Health found the 40 percent
health benefits tax will ‘‘disproportionately
harm families with incomes between $38,550
and $100,000, while sparing the wealthy’’.
This tax will only serve to increase
healthcare costs and reduce benefits for
working Americans in a time where they
simply cannot afford to pay more for less
coverage.
For all of these reasons, I urge you to sup-
port working families and vote ‘‘Yes’’ on
H.R. 748, the Middle Class Health Benefits
Tax Repeal of 2019.
Thank you,
ROBERT MARTINEZ, Jr.,
International President.
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD
OF TEAMSTERS,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: This week, the
House of Representatives will consider H.R.
748, the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Re-
peal Act of 2019. On behalf of the more than
1.4 million members of the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, I ask you to vote
yes on H.R. 748. This bipartisan legislation
would repeal the excise tax on high value
employer sponsored health insurance (ESI),
often referred to as the ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’.
The Teamsters have long opposed pro-
posals that tax worker health benefits. At-
tempts to tax employer provided health care
benefits through the 40 percent excise tax on
high quality health care plans reduce the
health benefits that hard working Americans
receive and increase their out of pocket
costs. Policy makers should not penalize,
with an egregious tax, employers that do the
right thing and provide high value health in-
surance to their workers.
More than 181 million people (a majority of
the country) receive employer sponsored in-
surance. While the tax is ‘‘levied’’ on em-
ployers, experts expect costs largely to be
shifted to workers and their families. And, it
is unconscionable that hard working Ameri-
cans will continue to have this 40 percent
penalty on benefits that they have fought
hard to achieve/receive looming over them.
While this tax does not take effect until 2022,
having twice been delayed by Congress, this
egregious tax is already hollowing out the
benefits of working people who have employ-
ment-based coverage. Indeed, employers are
already scaling back their health care bene-
fits and offerings, and/or increasing workers’
out of pocket costs.
In recent years, deductibles and out of
pocket costs of ESI plans have risen consid-
erably, while costs continue to grow. Accord-
ing to the CUNY School of Public Health re-
search, the health benefits tax predomi-
nantly impacts the middle class. Congress
should be looking for ways to strengthen the
middle class instead of promoting policies
that will ultimately take money from their
hard earned paychecks and reduce, and make
more costly, the health care benefits they re-
ceive.
I call on you to support the full and perma-
nent repeal of the so-called ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’.
I hope that I can report to our members that
you stood with the International Brother-
hood of Teamsters family to pass this impor-
tant legislation. Vote yes on H.R. 748.
Sincerely,
JAMES P. HOFFA,
General President.
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF FIRE FIGHTERS,
Washington, DC, July 16, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The International
Association of Fire Fighters represents more
than 316,000 professional fire fighters and
emergency medical personnel, working in
every state in the nation. We strongly sup-
port the bipartisan Middle-Class Health Ben-
efits Tax Repeal Act of 2019 (HR 748) and re-
quest that you vote YES this Wednesday
when it is considered under suspension of the
rules.
Voting yes on HR 748 would repeal the 40
percent tax on employer-provided health in-
surance and protect the healthcare that so
many public safety workers have fought to
get and protect.
This ill-conceived tax was originally sold
to lower and slow the rate of healthcare
costs. What the tax actually does is shift
more costs onto consumers through higher
deductibles, copays and coinsurance. Taxing
health plans with high premiums will do
nothing to drive down costs because the real
drivers of those costs are age, gender and ge-
ography. As a result, this tax will punish fire
fighters based on who they work with or
where they live, and that is both bad policy
and unfair to workers.
Proponents of the tax argued it would only
target the richest Americans, but that too
turned out to be untrue. Most plans that
would fall victim to this tax cover working
class, middle-income Americans. Fire fight-
ers in particular, fall into this category. The
dangerous nature and high risks associated
with working in the fire service make fire
fighters’ health plans critically important;
workers will often choose to protect their
health care over increased pay.
Taxing health benefits will undermine an
integral component of our health care sys-
tem. One of the primary reasons why most
Americans receive health care coverage
through their employer is owed to the fact
that their benefits are not taxed. At the risk
of weakening health benefits, depressing
wages and burdening workers with higher
taxes, we should not support policies that
tax health care for American workers.
While the tax does not go into effect until
2022, the IAFF seeks its immediate repeal.
Many of our members negotiate multi-year
contracts that are directly impacted by the
eventual implementation of this tax. The
time for incremental relief is over. Congress
must pass HR 748 and fully repeal the excise
tax on employer-provided health insurance.
When the House votes tomorrow on this
measure, I ask that you stand with all public
safety workers and vote YES. Thank you for
your considered support on this important
issue.
Respectfully,
HAROLD A. SCHAITBERGER,
General President.
INTERNATIONAL UNION
OF OPERATING ENGINEERS,
July 16, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: On behalf of 400,000 members of the
International Union of Operating Engineers
and their families, I respectfully request
that you support H.R. 748, the Middle Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019.
The International Union of Operating En-
gineers (IUOE) represents nearly 400,000
working men and women in the United
States and Canada, thousands of whom
would be affected by this 40% tax on high-
cost health insurance premiums.
As you know, Congress has acted twice to
delay this tax—its current effective date is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.032 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5964 July 17, 2019
January 1, 2022—but multi-year collective
bargaining negotiations are now underway
and the uncertainty surrounding the possible
imposition of the tax is already pushing em-
ployers to hollow out the health-care bene-
fits of their workers. The excise tax on high-
premium health plans should be permanently
repealed.
Proponents of the tax argued that it would
incentivize employers to move away from
‘‘overly generous’’ health care coverage.
They argued that forcing workers to have
more ‘‘skin in the game’’ would reduce
‘‘overutilization’’ of health care services,
forcing people to consider the financial im-
plications of seeking care. Surveys of em-
ployers over the years have shown that they
have reduced coverage under their health
plans in anticipation of the tax. The tax,
however, would have no effect on a ‘‘unit
cost’’ of health care.
In the decade since the tax was enacted, it
is clear that the health care affordability
crisis now affects millions of individuals
with employment-based coverage. From 2008–
2018, the general annual deductible for fam-
ily coverage has increased 212 percent, while
workers’ earnings have only increased 26 per-
cent. This tax is clearly having a negative
impact on working families, and its repeal is
overdue.
The International Union of Operating En-
gineers supports H.R. 748 and respectfully re-
quests that you repeal the tax on high-cost
health insurance premiums as quickly as
possible. We believe that permanent repeal
of the 40-percent tax should be a top priority
for this 116th Congress, and we look forward
to working with you to enact it into law.
Thank you for your leadership on this vital
issue for Operating Engineers and their fami-
lies.
Sincerely,
JAMES T. CALLAHAN,
General President.
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I
support this legislation, H.R. 748.
During our discussions on health re-
form in 2009, many of us strongly op-
posed the excise tax on so-called Cad-
illac employer-provided health plans.
We were successful in keeping it out of
the House version of the bill, but we all
know it ended up in the final bill. It
has been delayed since then, but now it
is enactment time. This is imminent.
We need to do something now.
The Cadillac tax would impact em-
ployers and families whose health in-
surance plans cost more than $11,100
for an individual and $29,750 for family
coverage. This is not a small universe,
and the effects will be highly negative.
If we do nothing, this tax would fall
squarely on employees, encouraging
employers to shift away from tax-free
health benefits to taxable wages.
As deductibles have risen more than
200 percent in the employer-sponsored
insurance plans, the cost of care has
continued to grow while wages remain
flat. We must ensure that employers
can continue to provide high-quality
healthcare.
I urge my colleagues to support the
bipartisan repeal of the Cadillac tax.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. BANKS).
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, this is
a historic day. We have finally found a
tax that Members and my friends on
both sides of the aisle agree needs to be
cut.
I am proud to be a cosponsor of to-
day’s legislation, and I am excited that
many of my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle as well are prepared to
get rid of this destructive tax that was
put in place by ObamaCare.
b 1645
But while we are at it, while we are
repealing ObamaCare taxes, we should
include an equally destructive tax in
today’s repeal: the medical device tax.
I am very proud to serve the resi-
dents of Warsaw in northeast Indiana,
the region that is often referred to as
the orthopedic capital of the world. Un-
fortunately, companies in my district
and all across this country have been
needlessly hampered by the inability of
this Congress to fully and permanently
repeal the onerous medical device tax.
When it was enforced, this tax de-
stroyed 29,000 jobs and caused a $34 mil-
lion reduction in investments in life-
saving research and development.
So today, while we are here voting on
this bipartisan legislation to repeal the
Cadillac tax, I ask that all Members of
this body be equally mindful in moving
swiftly to also repeal the medical de-
vice tax.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS).
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I strongly support
this bill to eliminate the 40 percent tax
on high-quality healthcare benefits.
Americans are facing a healthcare af-
fordability crisis. Employers and insur-
ers are already using this tax to justify
raising the cost of healthcare for hard-
working Americans by increasing
copays, deductibles, and out-of-pocket
expenses.
In the last decade, annual deductibles
for families have exploded by 212 per-
cent, and spending on coinsurance has
increased nearly 50 percent. A Kaiser
Family survey reveals that these
changes create alarming barriers to
healthcare for working families, with
almost 50 percent of respondents indi-
cating that someone in their family
postponed care due to costs.
I stand with the 43 national labor
unions and the dozens of patient orga-
nizations, healthcare advocates, and
business leaders who support this im-
portant bill to protect healthcare bene-
fits for American workers. Healthcare
is a right. I am pleased to support this
bill.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Chair, may I inquire how much time is
left.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania has 91⁄2 min-
utes remaining. The gentlewoman from
Washington has 101⁄2 minutes.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD letters of support
for H.R. 748.
THE ERISA INDUSTRY COMMITTEE,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
DEAR MEMBER OF CONGRESS: This week, the
House is expected to vote on H.R. 748, the
‘‘Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal
Act of 2019.’’ The ERISA Industry Committee
(ERIC) is the only national trade association
that advocates exclusively for large em-
ployer plan sponsors on health, retirement,
and compensation public policies on the fed-
eral, state, and local levels. ERIC member
companies employ workers in every state
and community and provide health coverage
that is valued and relied upon by families
across the country. ERIC urges members of
Congress to vote YES and support this legis-
lation.
H.R. 748, supported by more than 360 co-
sponsors in the House, would eliminate the
impending 40% ‘‘Cadillac’’ excise tax on
high-cost employer-sponsored health insur-
ance. The tax does not target overly-gen-
erous benefits; instead, it attacks plans
based upon their costs. As such, plans that
insure more individuals with chronic condi-
tions, more seniors, more women, and popu-
lations more likely to incur health care
costs will be unfairly taxed at an
unsustainable rate—as will those based parts
of the country where health care is more ex-
pensive.
If Congress fails to repeal the Cadillac tax,
employers may have to:
Directly shift costs to employees. This
could include increasing the portion of the
plan premium employees pay, increasing
deductibles, copays and coinsurance.
Eliminate employer contributions to con-
sumer-directed accounts. This includes
Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), Health Re-
imbursement Arrangements (HRAs), or
Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs).
Reduce access to care. This includes tight-
ening networks and excluding high-cost pro-
viders, implementing barriers to high cost
treatments and providers (step therapy,
prior authorization), moving expensive medi-
cines deeper into Rx formularies, and elimi-
nating coverage for some medications.
Eliminate coverage for spouses and de-
pendents, and separate out or eliminate ex-
cepted benefits. These include dental, vision,
hospital indemnity, cancer-only, or other
‘‘add-on’’ benefits.
Drastically redesign plans. For instance,
ending preferred provider organization (PPO)
or similar plans, and implementing a high-
deductible health plan (HDHP) or a health
maintenance organization (HMO).
Eliminate investments in health. Invest-
ments that plan sponsors make to improve
health may save money later, but the costs
of those investments could be considered to
add value to the plan. As such, plans may
consider eliminating on-site clinics, wellness
programs, telehealth benefits, health infor-
mation technology investments, and other
health improvement efforts that have up-
front costs.
As we have previous reported to Congress,
the Cadillac tax is an existential threat to
employer-sponsored health benefits. Repeal-
ing the Cadillac tax is ERIC’s top priority on
behalf of our member companies. While em-
ployers support efforts to reduce health care
costs, a tax on benefits will do the opposite,
making health insurance less affordable for
workers, their families, and retirees.
As such, when H.R. 748 comes to a vote,
ERIC urges members to vote YES. We look
forward to working with Congress to finally
repeal this damaging tax, to ensure afford-
ability of health benefits for patients.
Sincerely,
JAMES P. GELFAND.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.035 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5965
July 17, 2019
AMERICAN BENEFITS COUNCIL,
Washington, DC, July 14, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: We are very gratified that the Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act (H.R.
748) will be voted upon shortly in the House
of Representatives. This widely bipartisan
measure sponsored by Representatives Joe
Courtney and Mike Kelly would fully and im-
mediately repeal the 40 percent ‘‘Cadillac
Tax’’ that threatens the high-value, high-
quality health coverage that 181 million
Americans receive through employers. We
ask that you strongly urge the members of
your respective caucuses to support this
measure. Passage of H.R. 748 with a large bi-
partisan majority will send a powerful signal
to the Senate of the need to quickly approve
this legislation.
The American Benefits Council’s members
either directly sponsor or support sponsors
of health and retirement benefits for vir-
tually all Americans covered by employer-
provided plans. Consequently, we are keenly
aware of the drastic impact the ‘‘Cadillac
Tax’’ would have on health care benefits. We
have already witnessed some of the negative
consequences, even though the tax does not
technically go into effect until 2022.
Starting that year, a 40 percent excise tax
will be imposed on employer-sponsored cov-
erage that exceeds certain dollar thresholds.
For millions of Americans who rely upon
health insurance coverage through an em-
ployer, the looming implementation of the
tax has already resulted in reduced coverage
and increased out-of-pocket costs. The rea-
son for this is, to ensure the impact of the
tax on participants is not imposed suddenly
and severely in 2022, many employers have
already reluctantly been compelled to make
plan changes: reducing important benefits or
asking workers to assume a larger share of
deductibles and copayments. This trend will
accelerate without swift action by Congress.
AGC KEY VOTE: VOTE ‘‘YES’’ ON H.R. 748, THE
MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX RE-
PEAL ACT OF 2019
JULY 16, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
Associated General Contractors of America
(AGC), I write to urge you to support the
Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act
(H.R. 748). This bipartisan legislation would
repeal the 40 percent excise tax on employer-
sponsored health coverage and employee
benefits under the Affordable Care Act
(ACA). Because ensuring the ability to pro-
vide affordable health care is a critical issue
for the construction industry, AGC reserves
the right to record your vote on this bill as
a ‘‘key vote’’ for the education of its mem-
bership.
The 40 percent excise tax, also known as
the ‘‘Cadillac tax,’’ would force contractors
to cut or limit employee benefits for mil-
lions of employees. Though dubbed the Cad-
illac tax because the provision was targeting
‘‘high cost’’ employer-sponsored health cov-
erage, it is causing an adverse effect on the
affordability and quality of health coverage
available to construction employees and
their families even before it has taken effect.
While we appreciate prior delays of this
tax, uncertainty remains in the employer
health market as the U.S. Treasury Depart-
ment begins to develop proposed rules for
implementation. As construction employers
make health plan decisions well in advance
of a coverage year beginning, looming pro-
posed rules have a direct impact on their
planning process for the next several cov-
erage years.
AGC supports the affordability and viabil-
ity of providing employersponsored coverage
now and in the future. As such, the 40 per-
cent excise tax should be permanently re-
pealed. Again, AGC reserves the right to
record your vote as a ‘‘key vote’’ for the edu-
cation of its membership.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CHRISTIANSON,
Vice President, Government Relations.
NATIONAL BUSINESS GROUP ON HEALTH,
July 16, 2019.
Hon. JOE COURTNEY (D–CT)
Washington, DC.
Hon. MIKE KELLY (R–PA)
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVES COURTNEY AND
KELLY: The National Business Group on
Health (Business Group) again writes in
strong support of your bipartisan bill (H.R.
748) that would eliminate the 40 percent tax
on the value of health benefits above a gov-
ernment-determined amount imposed by the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(ACA), commonly referred to as the ‘‘Cad-
illac Tax’’. Any tax that raises the cost of
health benefits will harm the more than 181
million Americans who rely on and value
employer-sponsored health coverage. Even
though the Cadillac Tax is delayed to 2022,
the Business Group urges the 116th Congress
to pass this important bipartisan legislation
early in 2019 to provide permanent relief and
clarity to employees that this fundamentally
flawed tax will not impact their health bene-
fits.
According to our survey data, absent plan
changes, 73% of companies who responded
will have at least one plan that triggers the
tax in 2022 and 94% will in 2026. In a few
short years, if the tax is not repealed, it will
affect nearly 100% of employer plans since
the tax is indexed to general inflation, not
medical inflation, which is consistently
much higher.
Furthermore, the National Business Group
on Health, which represents 440, primarily
large, employers (including 75 of the Fortune
100) who voluntarily provide health benefits
and other health programs to over 55 million
American employees, retirees, and their fam-
ilies, believes that not only is this tax
flawed, it is also not the most effective way
to tackle rising health care costs. Rather
than focus on demand-side taxes that will
raise costs for working Americans and their
employers, Congress should focus on supply-
side drivers of medical inflation and unnec-
essary.
Sincerely,
BRIAN J. MARCOTTE,
President and CEO.
NATIONAL COALITION ON BENEFITS,
July 17, 2019.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES: The National Coalition on
Benefits (NCB), a coalition of businesses and
associations committed to protecting the
ability of employers to provide uniform em-
ployee health benefits across the country,
strongly supports the passage of H.R. 748, the
‘‘Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal
Act of 2019.’’ This legislation would repeal
the looming ‘‘Cadillac Tax,’’ a 40 percent ex-
cise tax imposed on employee health benefits
above a certain threshold.
Employers strongly support the full repeal
of the Cadillac Tax because this tax inevi-
tably forces the reduction of employee bene-
fits and, because of the flawed indexing pro-
visions of the underlying Affordable Care
Act, this tax will affect most plans in a few
years, even those with reduced benefits. Em-
ployers devise benefit plans two years in ad-
vance of the actual plan year. As a result,
employers are being forced now to reduce
employee benefits in order to avoid the im-
pending reach of the Cadillac Tax.
Working Americans don’t want their
health benefits taxed at a time when they’re
already confronting higher premiums and
out-of-pocket costs. Indeed, a 2018 election
night poll, conducted by pollster Frank
Luntz, highlights that 81 percent of voters
oppose taxes on employer-provided health
coverage.
The Cadillac Tax presents a direct threat
to the more than 181 million Americans who
rely on employer-sponsored coverage to meet
their health care needs. The NCB thanks
Reps. Joe Courtney and Mike Kelly for their
dogged and unwavering commitment to re-
pealing this onerous tax on employee bene-
fits and urges the House to approve H.R. 748.
Sincerely,
NATIONAL COALITION ON BENEFITS.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of NFIB,
the nation’s leading small business advocacy
organization, I write in support of H.R. 748,
the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal
Act of 2019. This legislation repeals the 40
percent excise tax on employer-sponsored
health insurance, also known as the ‘‘Cad-
illac tax.’’ This bill will be considered an
NFIB Key Vote for the 116th Congress.
The cost of health insurance continues to
be the number one problem for small busi-
ness owners, according to NFIB’s Problems
and Priorities survey. As health insurance
costs increase, fewer small business owners
are able to offer coverage to employees. In
2010, 39 percent of small businesses offered
health insurance. In 2018, fewer than 30 per-
cent of small businesses offered coverage, a
net decrease of 24 percent. The Cadillac tax
will exacerbate this trend. Health insurance
cost increases will accelerate as more small
businesses are subject to the Cadillac tax.
The Cadillac tax will also be an adminis-
trative nightmare for small business owners.
Early guidance from the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) proposed requiring small busi-
ness owners to calculate their tax liability,
notify the IRS and health insurers of their
tax liability, and remit the tax liability to
the health insurers. Small business owners
do not have time or resources for significant
new compliance and reporting burdens.
NFIB supports passage of H.R. 748 and will
consider a vote in favor of the legislation as
an NFIB Key Vote for the 116th Congress.
H.R. 748 will help mitigate health insurance
cost increases and relieve administrative
burdens for small business owners and em-
ployees. We look forward to working with
you to protect small business as the 116th
Congress moves forward.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. SÁNCHEZ).
Ms. SÁNCHEZ. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of the Middle Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act, and I
want to thank Chairman NEAL and Mr.
COURTNEY for their tireless efforts to
get this legislation passed.
I have been proud to support the re-
peal of the Cadillac tax for many years.
Last Congress, I offered an amendment
to repeal the tax during the healthcare
repeal and replace debate.
It is important to remember that the
Cadillac tax does not just affect high-
value plans. If Congress does not act,
the tax will hit hardworking Ameri-
cans and their families who receive em-
ployer-sponsored insurance. Employers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.044 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5966 July 17, 2019
have already started shifting costs to
their workers in anticipation by in-
creasing deductibles, copays, and coin-
surance.
Congress has voted twice to delay the
tax, but now is the time to officially
repeal it. I am pleased that we are fi-
nally taking this vote today. I look for-
ward to passage today and will keep
working to strengthen and protect
America’s healthcare.
I include in the RECORD letters from
CWA, UAW, AFSCME, AFT, and AFGE
and the AFL–CIO in support of this
bill.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA,
July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE NEAL: On behalf of
the officers and 700,000 members of the Com-
munications Workers of America (CWA), I
am writing to urge you to vote in favor of
H.R. 748, the Middle Class Health Benefits
Tax Repeal Act of 2019, when it comes before
the House this week.
This bill will permanently repeal the 40%
tax on employer health benefits which is cur-
rently scheduled to take effect in 2022. It will
provide relief to our members, and working
people everywhere, whose health benefits are
under continual attack by employers looking
to shift the cost of care to workers.
A recent study by the Commonwealth
Fund found that the number of Americans
who are underinsured as a result of high out-
of-pocket costs and deductibles has grown by
over 50% since 2010. The fastest growth in
under-insurance has come from Americans
with employer-provided coverage.
This is consistent with our members’ expe-
rience at the bargaining table, where fights
to preserve affordable coverage and prevent
plan cuts dominate our negotiations at every
employer. The 40% benefit tax will exacer-
bate this trend and force cuts across our
health plans, making health care less afford-
able.
Our members are currently negotiating
agreements with employers that extend to
2022. Current data indicates many of our
largest member health plans will be subject
to this tax immediately when it goes into ef-
fect that year. That is why action now to re-
solve this issue now is critical.
H.R. 748, the Middle Class Health Benefits
Tax Repeal Act, will improve health care for
working people across the country, providing
relief to workers who are paying high prices
for their negotiated healthcare. CWA will
consider votes on this bill on our Congres-
sional Scorecard.
Thank you in advance for your consider-
ation.
Sincerely,
SHANE LARSON,
Director of Legislative, Political and
International Affairs.
INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED
AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE & AGRI-
CULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS
OF AMERICA—UAW
Detroit, MI, July 16, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
more than one million active and retired
members of the International Union, United
Automobile, Aerospace & Agricultural Im-
plement Workers of America (UAW), we urge
you to vote yes on the Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal Act (H.R. 748). This bill
would permanently repeal the excise tax on
high cost employer-sponsored health cov-
erage. The tax is scheduled to be levied on
the aggregate amount of employer-sponsored
coverage exceeding thresholds established in
the law ($11,200 for individual coverage and
$30,100 for family coverage). The excise tax is
currently set to take effect in 2022.
The UAW believes affordable comprehen-
sive health care should be a right for every
American. That is why we strongly support
the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and vehe-
mently oppose all efforts to repeal the law.
The ACA has made important strides to-
wards the goal of universal, comprehensive,
affordable coverage. In fact, since its passage
in March 2010, more than 20 million people
have gained health care coverage. In addi-
tion, tens of millions more with preexisting
conditions have been able to get affordable
and comprehensive insurance because dis-
criminating against people with pre-existing
conditions is prohibited under the ACA.
Workers with employer sponsored coverage
have benefited from this and other protec-
tions, like the prohibition on lifetime caps,
found in the law. Without these protections,
unionized workers would have to collectively
bargain for these essential, common sense
protections.
Like any comprehensive law, the ACA
needs to be refined and repealing the sched-
uled tax on employer sponsored coverage
would improve our health care system.
As the Congressional Budget Office (CBO)
and prominent economists have predicted,
employers have responded to the impending
tax by increasing worker’s deductibles,
copays, and/or coinsurance in order to avoid
being hit by the tax. Employers have in-
creased cost sharing under their plans,
switched to lower cost benefits, eliminated
plan options, or narrowed provider networks
in anticipation of the tax, according to a 2016
national survey of employers conducted by
the Kaiser Family Foundation.
The percentage of employers with a plan
reaching the threshold is projected to grow
fairly rapidly over time, to 28% in 2025 and
37% in 2030.
If Congress fails to act, working families
will be negatively impacted as employers
turn to a range of options to avoid the tax by
reducing the value of health care coverage,
which could include increasing deductibles,
copays, coinsurance and out-of-pocket lim-
its. This tax places a disproportionate bur-
den on working families and makes health
care less affordable.
We urge you to vote in support of the Mid-
dle-Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act
(H.R. 748).
Sincerely,
JOSH NASSAR,
UAW Legislative Director.
AFSCME,
Washington, DC, July 16, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
members of American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), I urge you to support passage of
the bipartisan ‘‘Middle Class Health Benefits
Tax Repeal Act of 2019’’ (H.R. 748), which
would repeal the 40 percent (‘‘Cadillac’’) tax
on employer-sponsored high cost worker and
retiree health benefits. AFSCME strongly
supports H.R. 748 to prevent further in-
creases in workers’ health costs and erosion
of their health benefits.
Repealing the 40 percent tax is needed be-
cause it encourages employers and insurers
to reduce working families’ health benefits
thereby raising medical copays, coinsurance,
deductibles, and related out-of-pocket health
expenses. AFSCME seeks immediate repeal
because, while the tax does not take effect
until 2022, it already is reducing benefits—as
AFSCME (and other stakeholders) are al-
ready negotiating multi-year contracts ex-
tending beyond early 2022. This tax is trou-
bling because it is regressive, disproportion-
ately burdens working families, and dis-
criminates against female dominated occu-
pations like nurses and teachers. Groups of
workers who are relatively older, less
healthy, or working jobs with relatively high
health risks will also suffer additional health
costs.
More broadly, America’s health care sys-
tem faces an escalating affordability crisis
and this 40 percent tax worsens it. For exam-
ple, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO)
analysis of this tax states, ‘‘empirical evi-
dence suggest that it will be passed on to
employers who purchase or provide insur-
ance that is subject to the tax—and then ul-
timately passed on to workers.’’ To help
workers and improve affordability, this 40
percent tax should be repealed now. This tax
also is a poorly targeted and ineffective tool.
It will soon affect tens of millions of working
families and recently released data reports
21 percent to 31 percent of employers offering
health benefits in 2022 will owe this tax. Oth-
ers estimate more large employers will owe
this tax, dispelling the myth that this tax
only affects plans with strong benefits.
H.R. 748 has diverse and broad support, in-
cluding endorsements from 43 national labor
unions, many patient and consumer organi-
zations, such as Families USA, groups that
treat and cure diseases such as American
Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, and
prominent business interests like the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and Business Round-
table. Furthermore, the public has opposed
this tax for years and a 2018 Election Day
poll reported 81 percent of voters oppose tax-
ing employer-provided health coverage. Re-
pealing the 40 percent tax is a vital step to
help make health care more affordable. We
urge you to support the bipartisan ‘‘Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act,’’ H.R.
748, and vote yes on this important legisla-
tion.
Sincerely,
SCOTT FREY,
Director of Federal Government Affairs.
AFT,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the 1.7
million members of the American Federation
of Teachers, I urge you to vote YES on H.R.
748, the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Re-
peal Act.
The AFT has always opposed the 40 percent
excise tax on high-quality healthcare plans,
included in the Affordable Care Act, which
will negatively impact families that have
worked for, and earned, strong healthcare
coverage. We have been gratified that Con-
gress has pushed back the implementation
date of this tax in the past. It is clear, how-
ever, that full repeal of this excise tax is
needed to prevent employers from using the
threat of the tax as a cudgel to demand re-
duced benefits or coverage from educators,
nurses, bus drivers, social workers and other
AFT members.
The AFT strongly supports the ACA’s ex-
pansion of health insurance, as well as the
act’s consumer protections and emphasis on
preventive care. We know firsthand that hav-
ing affordable, high-quality health insurance
is a key component to upward mobility and
a sustainable middle class. Under current
law, the number of insured Americans is
higher than ever before; that includes the
large number of contingent workers we rep-
resent, who make up an increasing share of
today’s workforce.
The ACA was intended to help ensure that
we all have access to high-quality healthcare
without depleting our paychecks and com-
promising our ability to save for the future.
The excise tax, rather than expanding high-
quality healthcare, would do the opposite. If
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.092 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5967
July 17, 2019
the 40 percent excise tax on the cost of em-
ployer-sponsored health insurance plans is
implemented, working families will be hurt.
Some analysts argue that this tax will lead
employers and employees to seek out ‘‘more
efficient’’ plans and perhaps to an increase in
wages. However, we have not seen an in-
crease in wages and remain concerned that
workers will be moved to high deductible/co-
pay health plans as a result of this tax. The
cost curve will not bend; costs will simply be
shifted over to those lower- and middle-in-
come workers already struggling because of
stagnant wages. This will lead to more work-
ers forgoing necessary care or going into
debt to pay for the high out-of-pocket costs.
In addition to having the potential to shift
costs to working families, the excise tax will
disproportionately affect older workers and
women. This is of particular concern to the
AFT, as a substantial number of our mem-
bers are female, and many live in high-cost
regions. Congress did recognize the obvious
impact on women and older workers by try-
ing to mitigate it with the ‘‘age and gender
adjustment’’ provisions in the law. However,
these provisions are insufficient, and imple-
mentation of the tax would almost certainly
lead to higher healthcare costs for these
groups.
There is near-universal agreement between
employers and employees that the excise tax
is bad policy for American workers, and
must be repealed. That is why more than 360
members of the House have co-sponsored this
much-needed, bipartisan legislation. I urge
you to join them and vote YES on H.R. 748.
Finally, I want to thank Rep. Joe Court-
ney, who introduced H.R. 748, for his relent-
less efforts and commitment to repealing
this counterproductive tax. His determina-
tion and leadership on this issue have been
remarkable, and our members appreciate his
dedication.
Thank you for considering our views on
this important matter.
Sincerely,
RANDI WEINGARTEN,
President.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
more than 700,000 federal and District of Co-
lumbia employees represented by the Amer-
ican Federation of Government Employees,
AFL-CIO (AFGE), I write to urge your sup-
port for the bipartisan ‘‘Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019’’ (H.R. 748)
which would eliminate the unfair and unwar-
ranted 40 percent tax on relatively high cost
employer-sponsored health insurance. We
ask that you vote ‘‘YES’’ when the bill
comes to the floor later this week.
Most federal employees and federal retir-
ees participate in the Federal Employee
Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). The pre-
miums for almost every plan that partici-
pates in FEHBP would be hit by this tax,
making a very expensive program even more
expensive for both taxpayers and partici-
pants. FEHBP plans are expensive, and thus
are subject to this tax, not because the bene-
fits they provide are so comprehensive, but
because the structure of FEHBP leads to
high premiums. FEHBP plans yield enor-
mous political power to charge high prices,
escape audit by virtue of their exemption
from application of the government’s cost
accounting standards, and are characterized
by risk segmentation that raises their pre-
miums above the actuarial value of their
benefits. Indeed, the generosity of benefits is
a relatively insignificant factor in the over-
all size of FEHBP’s premiums. Age, gender,
health status and program structure are the
most important factors in determining pre-
miums, and premiums determine whether a
plan is subject to the tax.
The 40 percent excise tax is not scheduled
to take effect until 2022, so now is the time
for repeal, before it has any further delete-
rious effect on the working and middle class
families that are its targets. Support for re-
peal of this regressive tax is widespread.
There is no doubt that its effect will be to
make health insurance less affordable. That
is certainly true for federal employees and
retirees whose compensation has declined in
real terms over the past decade due to pay
freezes and retirement benefit reductions.
AFGE strongly urges you to support H.R.
748, the ‘‘Middle Class Health Benefits Tax
Repeal Act of 2019.’’
Sincerely yours,
J. DAVID COX, SR.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. JUDY CHU).
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 748,
repealing the so-called Cadillac tax.
I believe that we in Congress should
be incentivizing employer-sponsored
insurance to be more generous, not
less; and at a time when the President
is working to dismantle the Affordable
Care Act and pushing through regula-
tions that allow junk plans to flourish,
we need to stand with American work-
ers and fight for more generous health
plans.
The plans that are hit by this tax
cover more female employees, more
workers with dependent children, more
older workers, and employees at small
businesses. These are the people who
are being hit by high deductibles, ris-
ing premiums, and more cost sharing
in the health system than ever before.
A recent study showed that in 2018, 58
percent of Americans do not have $1,000
of savings in case of an emergency, and
yet the average deductible in 2018 was
$1,350.
We must pass this bill.
I include letters of support for H.R.
748 into the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
from organizations such as the Alli-
ance for Retired Americans, the Alli-
ance to Fight the 40, and the College
and University Professional Associa-
tion for Human Resources.
ALLIANCE FOR RETIRED AMERICANS,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the 4.4
million members of the Alliance for Retired
Americans, I am writing to urge you to vote
in favor of H.R. 748, the Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal Act, when it comes up
for a vote on the House floor this week.
As you know, approximately 181 million
Americans rely on employer-provided health
insurance to pay for the medical care that
they need. The 40% excise tax, originally
passed as a part of the Affordable Care Act,
is assessed on any health plan that provides
more than $10,200 for individual coverage and
$27,500 for family coverage.
While intended to target high-premium
plans for the wealthy to expand benefits and
coverage for uninsured individuals, the tax
squarely affects middle class workers and
their families. Johns Hopkins University re-
searchers projected that 75% of employer-
sponsored plans will be affected by the tax.
Retirees are especially vulnerable to high-
er health care costs and will be hurt if the
tax goes into effect. Older Americans’ retiree
insurance plans typically have higher pre-
miums. If not repealed, employers may re-
duce the benefits provided to their retirees
who are younger than 65 and eliminate sup-
plemental coverage altogether for Medicare
eligible retirees age 65 and over. In addition,
the tax disproportionately hurts women,
low- to middle-class individuals and families,
people with disabilities, workers with high-
risk occupations, and those with chronic
medical conditions.
Many workers are already experiencing the
effects of the tax. Some employers are reduc-
ing health coverage for their employees to
avoid the tax. Others are increasing pre-
miums and deductibles to shift costs to
workers. The Middle Class Health Benefits
Tax Repeal Act will eliminate this looming
danger facing millions of American workers.
I urge you to vote in favor of H.R. 748 to
protect quality health coverage for older
Americans and millions of workers and their
families. The importance of this vote cannot
be overstated.
Sincerely,
RICHARD J. FIESTA,
Executive Director.
ALLIANCE TO FIGHT THE 40,
July 15, 2019.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES SCHUMER,
Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR LEADER MCCONNELL, MINORITY LEAD-
ER SCHUMER, SPEAKER PELOSI, AND MINORITY
LEADER MCCARTHY: We are writing on behalf
of the 181 million Americans who receive
health care coverage through an employer.
This coverage is threatened by the looming
40% tax on employer-provided coverage. We
applaud the House for the bipartisan support
and for bringing H.R. 748, a bill that fully re-
peals the ‘‘Cadillac Tax,’’ to the floor for a
vote this week. We urge the Senate to ap-
prove quickly, and send this bill to the presi-
dent before the end of the year.
The tax is having a real impact, today, on
the lives and pocketbooks of American work-
ers. A poll conducted July 12, 2019, found
that 86% of voters oppose taxing employer-
provided health insurance.
The ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ increases the health
care cost burden for working Americans,
threatens patient access to care, and targets
vulnerable populations such as the families
and sick individuals most needing care. A
significant majority of voters—across party
lines—oppose this tax because it increases
out-of-pocket costs for older, sicker and un-
derserved communities. Taxing workers try-
ing to manage chronic conditions fails to ad-
dress our most urgent health care chal-
lenges.
At 40%, the tax is twice the top corporate
rate and will have significant consequences.
Waiting to address the tax forces employers
to adjust benefits now in anticipation of the
tax. Several studies have shown that the
‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ would have a direct and neg-
ative impact on the continued affordability
of employer-provided health insurance be-
cause employers will be compelled to reduce
benefits and increase deductibles and other
out-of-pocket costs to avoid the tax.
We need to protect the millions of Amer-
ican families with employer-provided health
care coverage from further benefit losses and
cost hikes. A healthy workforce drives a
healthy economy, but the so-called ‘‘Cadillac
Tax’’ will drive America’s health care—and
workforce—in the wrong direction.
There is strong support for repealing the
40% tax from both sides of the aisle and both
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.048 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5968 July 17, 2019
sides of the Capitol—and all across the coun-
try. Currently, there are more than 360 co-
sponsors in the House and 42 cosponsors in
the Senate who support legislation to repeal
the tax. In addition, 665 organizations in-
cluding, businesses, nonprofits, cities, cham-
bers of commerce, insurers, brokers, unions,
and patient advocacy groups recently signed
a letter supporting full repeal of the ‘‘Cad-
illac Tax.’’
We urge you to keep health care affordable
for working families by including full repeal
of the ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ in any package under
consideration before the end of this year.
Thank you for your consideration of this
request.
ALLIANCE TO FIGHT THE 40.
COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR HUMAN RESOURCES,
Knoxville, TN, July 17, 2019.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES SCHUMER,
Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR LEADER MCCONNELL, MINORITY LEAD-
ER SCHUMER, SPEAKER PELOSI, AND MINORITY
LEADER MCCARTHY: On behalf of the College
and University Professional Association for
Human Resources (CUPA–HR), I write in
support of H.R. 748, a bill that fully repeals
the ‘‘Cadillac Tax,’’ and urge members of the
House to vote ‘‘YES’’ when the bill comes to
the floor for a vote this week. I also urge the
Senate to approve this bill quickly and send
the bill to the President’s desk before the
end of the year.
CUPA–HR serves as the voice of human re-
sources (HR) in higher education, rep-
resenting more than 31,000 human resources
professionals and other higher education
leaders at over 2,000 colleges and universities
across the country. Its membership includes
93 percent of all U.S. doctoral institutions, 79
percent of all master’s institutions, 58 per-
cent of all bachelor’s institutions and over
500 two-year and specialized institutions.
Higher education employs over 3.9 million
workers nationwide, with colleges and uni-
versities in all 50 states.
CUPA–HR members collectively provide
comprehensive health benefits to millions of
employees, retirees, students and their fami-
lies. As such, CUPA–HR supports and encour-
ages employer efforts to provide benefits
that enhance employees’ health and
wellness—including efforts to keep
healthcare affordable.
For these reasons we urge the full House to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this legislation. Please do not
hesitate to reach out to me to discuss this
issue further.
Sincerely,
JOSHUA A. ULMAN,
Chief Government Re-
lations Officer, Col-
lege and University
Professional Asso-
ciation for Human
Resources.
SHRM,
Alexandria, VA, July 15, 2019.
Speaker NANCY PELOSI,
House of Representatives.
Leader KEVIN MCCARTHY,
House of Representatives.
Leader CHARLES SCHUMER,
U.S. Senate.
Leader MITCH MCCONNELL,
U.S. Senate.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, LEADER MCCARTHY,
LEADER SCHUMER, AND LEADER MCCONNELL,
For over seventy years the Society for
Human Resource Management (SHRM) has
represented the interests of our nation’s
Human Resources (HR) professionals. Today,
with more than 300,000 members who impact
the lives of 115 million employees each day
we use our voice to elevate issues squarely at
the intersection of work, workers and the
workplace. Workplace healthcare is one of
those issues.
SHRM believes public policy must
strengthen the employer-based health care
system, which provides coverage to more
than 181 million Americans. As the bedrock
of the U.S. health care system, employer-
sponsored plans are the largest providers of
health insurance (66 percent of the work-
force) to individuals in the United States.
Therefore, I write to share SHRM’s strong
support of H.R. 748 and S. 684, the Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act.
Although not effective until 2022, employ-
ers are already restructuring their health
care benefit offerings to avoid the tax. Ac-
cording to a new analysis by the Kaiser Fam-
ily Foundation, the anticipated tax would af-
fect one in five (21%) employers offering
health benefits when it takes effect in 2022
unless employers change their health plans.
As 2022 approaches, more employers will
have to closely scrutinize their health ben-
efit offerings and make the necessary
changes to avoid the tax, which may include
reducing benefits and/or altering wellness
and chronic care prevention programs. While
the excise tax is only intended to target
high-value plans, modest plans will also be
impacted, meaning millions of Americans
and their families could face higher copays
and deductibles, causing some to decline em-
ployer-provided health care.
The Cadillac Tax must be dealt with well
in advance of its proposed implementation
date, otherwise employees could see further
changes in their benefit options. For these
reasons, I urge you to support H.R. 748 when
it is considered on the House floor this week
and encourage swift action in the Senate.
Sincerely,
JOHNNY C. TAYLOR, JR., SHRM–SCP,
President & CEO.
PARTNERSHIP FOR
EMPLOYER-SPONSORED COVERAGE,
July 15, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: As members of the Partnership for Em-
ployer-Sponsored Coverage, we write with
our strong support for passage of the Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act (H.R.
748), to repeal the 40 percent excise tax on
employer-sponsored health coverage and em-
ployee benefits under the Affordable Care
Act (ACA). This important reform effort im-
pacts the over 181 million Americans covered
through employment-based benefits plans.
The Partnership for Employer-Sponsored
Coverage is committed to ensuring that em-
ployer-sponsored coverage is strengthened
and remains a viable, affordable option for
decades to come. Employer-sponsored cov-
erage has been the backbone of our nation’s
health system for nearly eight decades. Em-
ployers have a vested interest in health care
quality, value, and system viability.
The 40 percent excise tax, also known as
the Cadillac tax, would force employers to
cut or limit employee benefits. The tax is a
blunt instrument that proponents envision
will address the demand side of rising health
costs. While dubbed the Cadillac tax because
the provision was targeting ‘‘high cost’’ em-
ployer-sponsored health coverage, it would
impact the vast majority of employee bene-
fits plans.
While we appreciate prior delays of this
tax, uncertainty remains in the employer
health market as the U.S. Treasury Depart-
ment begins to develop proposed rules for
implementation. Employers make plan deci-
sions well in advance of a coverage year be-
ginning and looming proposed rules have a
direct impact on plan decisions that are
being made now for the ’next several cov-
erage years.
Full repeal of the Cadillac tax is extremely
timely. H.R. 748 will bring certainty to mil-
lions insured under an employer plan.
Sincerely,
American Hotel & Lodging Association.
American Rental Association.
American Staffing Association.
Associated General Contractors of Amer-
ica.
Auto Care Association.
The Council of Insurance Agents & Bro-
kers.
Food Marketing Institute.
HR Policy Association.
International Franchise Association.
National Association of Health Under-
writers.
National Association of Wholesaler-Dis-
tributors.
National Restaurant Association.
National Retail Federation.
Retail Industry Leaders Association.
Society for Human Resource Management.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE).
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Madam Speaker, I thank my
friend from Washington State for
yielding.
More than anything, today is about
fairness for America’s workers. I come
to this issue with the experience of re-
membering on several occasions when I
was growing up, my parents, who were
both hardworking members of orga-
nized labor, going through a contract
negotiation and wondering, if they
were going to go out on strike, what
was going to happen.
On more than one occasion, it would
end like this. They would say: Well, I
think we got a fair deal. We are for-
going a pay increase, but thank God we
are able to save our healthcare and our
benefits.
Time and time again, thousands—in-
deed, millions—of American workers
made that decision that they would
forgo pay raises, forgo pay increases, so
they could save their healthcare. So
then, decades later, to face a 40 percent
tax on that healthcare just is not right
and not fair to America’s workers.
So I am proud to stand here today
with my fellow Pennsylvanian on the
other side of the aisle, with colleagues
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.054 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5969
July 17, 2019
of mine on both sides of the aisle, in
order to repeal this Cadillac tax which
never should have been passed in the
first place.
Madam Speaker, I will enter into the
RECORD a number of letters from orga-
nizations all supporting this piece of
legislation to repeal the Cadillac tax.
NRF,
July 16, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND MINORITY LEAD-
ER MCCARTHY: I write to share the strong
support of the National Retail Federation
(NRF) for H.R. 748, the Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019. Please note
that NRF may consider votes on the strongly
bipartisan H.R. 748 and related procedural
motions as Opportunity Index Votes for our
annual voting scorecard.
The National Retail Federation, the
world’s largest retail trade association, pas-
sionately advocates for the people, brands,
policies and ideas that help retail thrive.
From its headquarters in Washington, D.C.,
NRF empowers the industry that powers the
economy. Retail is the nation’s largest pri-
vate-sector employer, contributing $2.6 tril-
lion to annual GDP and supporting one in
four U.S. jobs—42 million working Ameri-
cans. For over a century, NRF has been a
voice for every retailer and every retail job,
educating, inspiring and communicating the
powerful impact retail has on local commu-
nities and global economies.
H.R. 748, introduced by Representatives
Joe Courtney (D–CT) and Mike Kelly (R–PA),
will repeal the Affordable Care Act’s 40% ex-
cise tax on the excess value of employer-
sponsored health plans. Though portrayed as
being targeted at rich ‘‘gold-plated’’ benefit
plans, the ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ is projected to hit
much more mainstream plans covering low-
and middle-class families in the coming
years because of how it is indexed.
This legislation helps protect health insur-
ance coverage enjoyed by 181 million Ameri-
cans. According to 2018 mid-term election
polling, 81 percent of voters oppose taxing
employer-provided health coverage.
NRF appreciates Congress’ past two suc-
cessful efforts to delay the ‘‘Cadillac Tax.’’
We urge its full repeal, however, because this
tax forces the reduction of benefits well in
advance of its effective date. Employers gen-
erally craft benefit plans two or more years
in advance of the actual plan year. Benefits
are being reduced now (increasing employee
cost-sharing) to avoid the unfair tax on ‘‘ex-
cess’’ benefits.
We strongly urge your support for H.R. 748,
bipartisan legislation to repeal the ‘‘Cadillac
Tax.’’
Sincerely,
DAVID FRENCH,
Senior Vice President, Government Relations.
NECA,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
National Electrical Contractors Association
(NECA), I am writing in strong support of
H.R. 748—Middle Class Health Benefits Tax
Repeal Act of 2019, introduced by Rep. Joe
Courtney (D–CT) and Rep. Mike Kelly (R–
PA)
This critically needed legislation seeks to
repeal the ‘‘Cadillac tax,’’ which if imple-
mented would levy a 40 percent tax on ‘‘high-
end’’ employer-sponsored health insurance
plans with benefits valued at $10,200 per year
per individual or $27,500 per family. This tax
ignores significant demographic and geo-
graphic factors and applies to benefits that
help keep employees healthy, such as health
savings accounts. Most importantly, it pe-
nalizes employers, including NECA contrac-
tors, for providing their employees with
quality health coverage.
NECA contractors work to provide quality,
affordable health coverage through self-in-
sured, employer-sponsored group plans to
well over 500,000 employees across our na-
tion. Employer-sponsored health insurance
provides affordable quality coverage in the
best interest of American businesses and
their workers. Although the tax does not go
into effect until 2022, employers are already
being compelled to reduce benefits or imple-
ment increased cost-sharing to avoid being
on a trajectory to trigger the tax thresholds.
If Congress does not act now, the tax will
hurt millions of Americans with employer-
sponsored health care.
Thank you for your consideration of these
views. As the nationally recognized voice of
the $171 billion electrical construction indus-
try, NECA, and our 118 local chapters nation-
wide urge you to vote yes on H.R 748. Please
note that we will include this vote in our
NECA Legislative Report Card for the 116th
Congress.
Thank you for your consideration of our
views.
Sincerely,
MARCO A. GIAMBERARDINO, MPA,
Vice President, Government
and Public Affairs.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
HEALTH UNDERWRITERS,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: The National Association of Health Un-
derwriters (NAHU) endorses the passage of
H.R. 748, a repeal of the 40% excise tax on
certain employer-sponsored health insurance
plans, known as the ‘‘Cadillac Tax.’’ NAHU
represents 100,000 licensed agents and bro-
kers who are engaged in the sale and service
of health insurance and other ancillary prod-
ucts. NAHU members serve employers and
consumers around the country. Our members
work to help millions of employers of all
sizes finance, administer and utilize their
group health benefit plans on a daily basis,
and they know firsthand how the 40% excise
tax on health benefits will hurt middle-class
consumers.
H.R. 748 has received bipartisan support
with 361 co-sponsors with a majority of each
party caucus supporting repeal of the Cad-
illac Tax. The Cadillac Tax, set to go into ef-
fect in 2022, will impose a 40% excise tax on
health plans that exceed certain cost thresh-
olds beginning in 2022. Specifically, the law
calls for a 40% excise tax on the amount of
the aggregate monthly premium of each pri-
mary insured individual that exceeds the
year’s applicable dollar limit, which will be
adjusted annually to the Consumer Price
Index plus one percent. The current thresh-
old for when the tax applies is set to $11,100
for individual coverage and $29,750 for ‘‘other
than self-only’’ coverage. Because of the
wide-ranging benefits that can be counted
towards the tax, including HSAs, HRAs,
FSAs and other cost-containment measures,
many employers will find their plans exceed-
ing these thresholds when the tax takes ef-
fect. While designed as a disincentive for em-
ployers offering the most benefit-rich plans,
in reality the tax will impact a majority of
plans, including those that aren’t benefit-
rich and were not the intended targets of
this provision.
All employers could be subjected to this
tax, with various factors determining the
likelihood of a plan’s costs exceeding the
threshold. These include family size, state
benefit mandates, high-cost geography, age,
health status, the size of the employer and
other factors. In addition to paying the tax,
employers will be forced to handle onerous
compliance requirements on a monthly basis
to record and pay the tax to insurers. In
turn, insurers will be required to treat the
tax as revenue and will be taxed on that
amount, which will increase the size of the
tax for everyone. Individuals and families
who are already struggling to afford existing
plan premiums and higher deductibles will
also be hit by the tax, further increasing
their costs.
We appreciate your consideration on this
issue that is important for businesses and
their employees so that all families can af-
ford quality healthcare. We look forward to
working with you and your colleagues in en-
acting this bipartisan legislation this year.
Best regards,
JANET TRAUTWEIN,
Executive Vice President and CEO.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
MANUFACTURERS,
July 16, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
National Association of Manufacturers
(NAM), the largest manufacturing associa-
tion in the United States representing 14,000
manufacturers in every industrial sector and
in all 50 states, I am writing to urge you to
support the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax
Repeal Act of 2019 (H.R. 748) introduced by
Representatives Joe Courtney (D–CT) and
Mike Kelly (R–PA).
Manufacturers consistently rank the rising
cost of health care as a primary business
challenge in the NAM’s Quarterly Outlook
Survey. Despite the challenge, approxi-
mately 98 percent of NAM members continue
to provide health insurance to employees.
The manufacturing industry is committed to
providing quality health benefits to employ-
ees to maintain a healthy workforce, attract
and retain talent and because it is the right
thing to do. Many are leading new health
benefit initiatives to provide quality care
that reduces growing health benefits costs.
Additionally, manufacturers oppose applying
heavy federal tax burdens on employers’ and
workers’ health bills.
H.R. 748 would permanently repeal the 40
percent tax-hike on ‘‘high-cost’’ health bene-
fits, commonly referred to as the Cadillac
Tax. While this tax was initially intended to
impact high-cost employer-sponsored health
care plans, it is expected to burden a broad
crosssection of small and large employers
across the country and to discourage em-
ployer innovations that are improving bene-
fits for manufacturing workers. Manufactur-
ers have been forced to begin plan prepara-
tions even though the tax is scheduled to go
into effect in 2022. Fully repealing the Cad-
illac tax, health insurance tax and medical
device tax remain top health care priorities
for manufacturers.
The NAM urges strong support for H.R. 748
and appreciates ongoing efforts to eliminate
the looming threat of health care taxes on
manufacturers. Thank you for your consider-
ation.
Sincerely,
ROBYN M. BOERSTLING,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:50 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.094 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5970 July 17, 2019
Vice President, Infra-
structure, Innova-
tion and Human Re-
sources Policy.
NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION
50TH ANNIVERSARY, JULY 16, 2019
NTU urges all Representatives to vote
‘‘YES’’ on H.R. 748, the Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019. This legisla-
tion would permanently repeal the flawed
‘‘Cadillac tax’’ scheduled to go into effect in
2022, which could impact up to one in five
employers immediately. Congress should
also work to permanently repeal the medical
device tax and the Health Insurance Tax
(HIT), both of which are scheduled to go into
effect in 2020.
NTU has noted before that the Affordable
Care Act’s excise tax on high-cost employer-
sponsored insurance (ESI), popularly known
as the ‘‘Cadillac tax,’’ is a poor solution to a
real policy dilemma—addressing the em-
ployer-sponsored health insurance tax exclu-
sion that has distorted markets. Even
though the intent of the tax was to reduce
health care costs and boost the economy, the
Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) and the
Congressional Budget Office (CBO) have esti-
mated that the Cadillac tax will depress
wages.
The Cadillac tax would also have a far-
reaching impact on ESI plans. The Kaiser
Family Foundation (KFF) recently reported
that the Cadillac tax could impact more
than one in five employers (21 percent) in
2022, when the tax is scheduled to go into ef-
fect. Since the cost of ESI plans is expected
to rise faster than inflation, a growing pro-
portion of plans will likely become subject
to the tax over time. KFF-estimates that
nearly two in five ESI plans (37 percent) will
be subject to the tax by 2030.
When it comes to taxes imposed by the Af-
fordable Care Act, though, Congress should
not stop with Cadillac tax repeal. Both the
medical device tax and the Health Insurance
Tax (HIT) have been suspended by Congress,
but are scheduled to resume in 2020. The
costs of these taxes will ultimately be borne
by consumers, in the form of higher health
spending and higher premiums. Additionally,
Congress should examine the tax treatment
of health care in a holistic fashion and work
toward a minimally distortionary environ-
ment that empowers consumers to make de-
cisions about their own health care needs.
NTU strongly urges Representatives to
support H.R. 748, and additionally to perma-
nently repeal both the medical device tax
and HIT.
Roll call votes on H.R. 748 will be included
in our annual Rating of Congress and a
‘‘YES’’ vote will be considered the pro-tax-
payer position.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Nevada (Mr. HORSFORD).
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker,
thank you to my colleague from Wash-
ington for managing this important
bill.
I rise today to speak in support of
the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax
Repeal Act. We cannot afford to let
this 40 percent excise tax on employer-
sponsored health plans to take effect.
This tax would increase costs for
America’s working and middle-class
families.
For many working families, nec-
essary medical treatment remains
tragically unaffordable due to exorbi-
tant out-of-pocket costs and
deductibles. If this so-called Cadillac
tax isn’t repealed, this crisis of afford-
ability for medical care will only wors-
en.
To avoid the excise tax, employers
will, in all likelihood, reduce the value
of their plans and reduce benefits and
even increase their workers’ share of
the cost. This would result in increases
in out-of-pocket costs for more than
180 million workers, including 1.3 mil-
lion people in my home State of Ne-
vada, and it would decrease access to
quality insurance plans across the
country.
This vote helps labor throughout the
country, including the Culinary Work-
ers Union in my home State. Members’
benefits, wages, and overall compensa-
tion allow them to stay afloat finan-
cially, and to quote the international
union president for UNITE HERE, D.
Taylor: ‘‘They drive used cars, not Cad-
illacs, and their healthcare does not in-
clude spa treatments.’’
At a time when this is the reality for
our constituents, Congress should
make sure that employers doing the
right thing and providing high-value
health insurance to their employees
are supported.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from Nevada.
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker,
Congress should make sure that em-
ployers doing the right thing and pro-
viding high-value health insurance to
their employees are supported, not pe-
nalized with an egregious tax.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD a letter from UNITE HERE and
several other national organizations.
UNITEHERE!,
Las Vegas, NV, July 15, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of UNITE
HERE and the 300,000 men and women and
their families from the fastest growing pri-
vate sector labor union in America, I am
asking for your vote to approve H.R. 748, the
‘‘Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal
Act of 2019.’’
It is time to finally put a marker down and
bring real tax relief to hard pressed working
Americans, not just to health insurance and
medical device companies who have a legion
of lobbyists at their disposal. At a time when
consumer anxiety is high and where only one
job should be enough to make a living but
isn’t, the 181 million middle-class Americans
who receive their health benefits from a pri-
vate employer need an economic boost and
some good news. I want to make the position
of our union and membership clear: We sup-
port tax relief for middle-class Americans,
starting with the repeal of the 40% excise tax
on employer-sponsored health insurance.
The so-called ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ impacts far
more health plans than many members of
Congress, including some Democrats, who
characterize these hard-earned health bene-
fits ‘‘overly generous.’’ In fact, the 40% ex-
cise tax unfairly taxes our own members who
make—all in, salary and benefits—under
$50,000 a year. UNITE HERE members’ bene-
fits, wages, and overall compensation allow
them to stay afloat financially. They drive
used cars, not Cadillacs, and their health
care does not include spa treatments.
Delayed but not yet repealed, this tax has
already incentivized employers to dramati-
cally reduce their health benefits and overall
compensation to avoid the tax thresholds. As
you should be aware, health care costs are
soaring. In fact, 73% of employers have
changed, or plan to change, their health in-
surance offerings to avoid the tax, according
to a recent survey by the International
Foundation. Many of our low-income mem-
bers reject pay raises just to maintain their
health benefits.
Our union is already doing its part to keep
health costs down among our members. Ken
Blair, President of UNITE HERE Local 217
says: We’re fighting hard to keep our costs
down inside our union by making sure our
members stay healthy or making sure they
use the most cost effective way to keep our
insurance low. Now we’re going to be taxed!
Our membership is majority minority, a
majority of women, and represent workers
from over (111) countries. On behalf of our
members, I again urge you to vote for H.R.
748 and stand up for millions of middle-class
Americans who receive modest health insur-
ance coverage through their jobs.
D. TAYLOR,
International President,
UNITE HERE.
SERVICE EMPLOYEES
INTERNATIONAL UNION,
Washington, DC, July 17, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
two million members of the Service Employ-
ees International Union (SEIU), I urge you
to vote for H.R. 748, Middle Class Health
Benefits Tax Repeal Act, which will elimi-
nate the 40 percent ‘‘Cadillac’’ tax on health
benefits. Employers are using the tax as jus-
tification to shift more costs to employees,
raising costs for workers and their families.
Congress must take action to ensure that ev-
eryone has access to affordable coverage
whether that coverage comes through an em-
ployer-sponsored plan, private non-group
coverage, or public programs.
Too many working families are struggling
to afford high out of pocket costs—including
deductibles, co-insurance, and co-payments
required under their employer sponsored in-
surance (ESI) plans. Unfortunately, the im-
pending 40 percent health benefits tax has
exacerbated the trend of shifting health
costs to working people by creating new
pressure for employers to reduce the gen-
erosity of coverage in order to avoid trig-
gering the tax. Though some claim providing
consumers more ‘‘skin in the game’’ through
increased cost-sharing will encourage them
to use care more efficiently and reduce costs,
research demonstrates that high cost-shar-
ing requirements prevent people from access-
ing even necessary care, including care for
chronic illnesses that could prevent more ex-
pensive interventions in the future. For ex-
ample, a 2019 survey of adults with employer
health benefits conducted by the Kaiser
Family Foundation/LA Times found that
half of respondents said that they or some-
one in their family went without or post-
poned needed care or medication as a result
of cost. Given the economic stress working
people face, policies should encourage high-
value comprehensive coverage. The 40 per-
cent health benefits tax acts to discourage
it.
Furthermore, since their inception, unions
have advocated and bargained on behalf of
their members for comprehensive affordable
healthcare. As a union, we value the robust
health insurance coverage we fought for at
the bargaining table for so many years, often
at the expense of higher wages. Many of our
members live in geographic areas with high-
er living expenses that include significant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.058 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5971
July 17, 2019
health costs. The majority of our member-
ship is comprised of women; as they are like-
ly to need health services that will cost more
than their younger male counterparts, their
coverage plans will be more expensive. We
should not punish workers who, through
their union, are able to have a voice in their
pay and benefits and in fact should honor the
choices and decisions workers make through
negotiations with their employers.
For decades, SEIU members have fought
for healthcare as a basic human right, not a
privilege. We believe that everyone in Amer-
ica has a right to quality, affordable
healthcare. SEIU members support all legis-
lation that improves and strengthens our
healthcare system—including expanding cov-
erage and lowering excessive out-of-pocket
costs—that are a huge financial burden on
working American families today and a
major cause of economic stress. We view re-
peal of the excise tax as a necessary im-
provement that is consistent with our goal
to support policies that make healthcare
more affordable. While some in the Adminis-
tration and Congress actively work to sabo-
tage our healthcare system, whether through
regulation or legal attacks, it is heartening
to see that others are taking seriously their
obligation to try and improve America’s
healthcare seriously.
For all these reasons, we ask you to sup-
port the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax
Repeal Act (H.R. 74).
Sincerely,
MARY KAY HENRY,
International President.
LIUNA!,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
500,000 members of the Laborers’ Inter-
national Union of North America (LIUNA), I
urge you to support and vote for H.R. 748, bi-
partisan legislation to repeal the so-called
Cadillac Tax provision of the Affordable Care
Act (ACA).
Since the ACA became law, this regressive
tax has been a looming dark cloud above
every union member’s health benefits and
the remaining 181 million Americans who
rely on their employer-sponsored insurance.
For the half-million members of LIUNA
whose healthcare benefits are collectively
bargained for and essentially self-funded in
order to provide good healthcare for them-
selves and their families, this is unaccept-
able and it needs to end now.
For nearly ten years, unions, businesses,
patient advocates, and consumer groups have
supported repeal of the Cadillac Tax, and,
with over 350 cosponsors, we finally have the
opportunity to repeal it.
We urge you to support H.R. 748 and vote
to end this unfair tax on America’s working
class.
With kind regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
TERRY O’SULLIVAN,
General President.
AIR LINE PILOTS
ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONAL,
Washington, DC, July 16, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
62,000 professional pilots represented by the
Air Line Pilots Association, International
(ALPA), I write in support of the bipartisan
Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act
of 2019 (H.R. 748). H.R. 748, introduced by
Representative Joe Courtney (D–CT), repeals
the 40% excise tax on health care plans.
H.R. 748 currently has 361 bipartisan co-
sponsors, and polls conducted in 2018 re-
vealed that taxing employer provided health
care benefits is opposed by over 81% of Amer-
icans. The excise tax on employer provided
health care benefits is predicated on the
flawed economic assumption that the cost of
a health insurance plan is the main driver of
health care costs. Detailed analysis of our
health insurance system has demonstrated
that the real drivers of health care costs are
location, occupation, gender and age.
Without a repeal, many employers are nec-
essarily preparing for the introduction of the
excise tax by increasing copays, deductibles
and out of pocket maximums in their health
care plans. The excise tax will further erode
the health care protection provided by our
plans and drive out of pocket costs up for
professional pilots and other workers.
When H.R. 748 comes up for a vote this
week, I urge you to support it. Thank you for
your consideration.
Sincerely,
CAPT. JOSEPH G. DEPETE,
President, Air Line Pilots Association Intl.
JULY 15, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD E. NEAL,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSMAN NEAL: On behalf of our
3 million members and the 50 million stu-
dents they serve, we urge you to VOTE YES
on the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Re-
peal Act (H.R. 748), which would eliminate
the 40 percent excise tax on ‘‘high cost’’ em-
ployer-sponsored health plans scheduled to
take effect in 2022. Votes on this issue may
be included in NEA’s Report Card for the
116th Congress.
Under the Affordable Care Act, ‘‘high cost’’
employer-sponsored health benefits whose
value exceeds specified thresholds will be
subject to a 40 percent excise tax starting in
2022: $11,200 for single coverage and $30,150 for
family coverage, the Tax Policy Center
projects. We support repeal because:
The tax would take money out of the pock-
ets of educators who have accepted lower
wages in return for decent health care cov-
erage—just when there’s growing recognition
among lawmakers and the American people
that educators deserve better compensation.
Moreover, educators would be among those
hit hardest by the tax as noted in an analysis
published in Health Affairs.
The tax applies equally to plans for lower-
and higher-income employees, as well as re-
tirees, regardless of whether they live in
areas with unusually high health care costs.
The tax is far likelier to hit plans due to
factors beyond employees’ control—their
age, gender, and location—than because of
the benefits provided.
Initially, the Kaiser Family Foundation
estimates, the tax would affect 21 percent of
employers who provide health coverage—31
percent when workers’ voluntary contribu-
tions to Flexible Spending Accounts are
taken into account as the law requires.
Over time, more and more workers would
be subject to the tax since health care costs
continue to rise at a faster rate than infla-
tion.
Educators are already struggling to make
ends meet—they cannot afford to pay even
more for health care. Please VOTE YES on
the Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal
Act (H.R. 748).
Sincerely,
MARC EGAN,
Director of Government Relations,
National Education Association.
UNITED STEELWORKERS,
Pittsburgh, PA, July 16, 2019.
Re United Steelworkers support H.R. 748, the
Middle Class Health Benefits Repeal Act
of 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
850,000 members of the United Steelworkers
(USW), I urge you to support the Middle
Class Health Benefits Repeal Act of 2019
(H.R. 748).
With more than half of Americans covered
under employer-sponsored healthcare, the
so-called ‘‘Cadillac Tax’’ could affect the
healthcare costs of more than 181 million
Americans across the country. By allowing
this excise tax to go into effect, hardworking
middle-class families with employer-spon-
sored healthcare plans could face reduced
benefits and increased out-of-pocket costs as
employers push to restructure and renego-
tiate workers’ hard-earned healthcare bene-
fits.
The bipartisan Middle Class Health Bene-
fits Repeal Act of 2019 (H.R. 748) would repeal
the 40 percent excise tax on the value of em-
ployer-sponsored health plans, ensuring that
workers and their families retain access to
the care they need. Although the tax has
been delayed multiple times since its incep-
tion, its looming nature impacts the bar-
gaining of multi-year contracts between
USW members and employers. The USW is
currently negotiating contracts including
healthcare plans that will be subject to the
tax without congressional action, and work-
ers are facing the potential costs at a time
when out-of-pocket healthcare expenses are
already rising.
Despite hefty increases in premiums,
deductibles and co-pays, workers are not ex-
periencing equivalent increases in their
wages. According to the Kaiser Family
Foundation’s 2018 Employer Health Benefits
Survey, workers’ healthcare costs are in-
creasing faster than both inflation and
wages. Since 2008, deductibles on workers’
plans have increased 212 percent and family
premiums have risen 55 percent. Further tax-
ing workers’ healthcare benefits will only
add to the burden of these increased
healthcare costs, not reduce them.
It is time for Congress to permanently re-
peal the misguided excise tax on employer-
sponsored health plans. The USW urges you
to support the Middle Class Health Benefits
Repeals Act of 2019 (H.R. 748) and pass this
important legislation.
Sincerely,
THOMAS M. CONWAY,
International President.
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I
urge all of my colleagues today to
stand with America’s working men and
women and support the Middle Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act and
vote in favor of abolishing this tax.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. RYAN).
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I want
to thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, it is always a pleas-
ure to be able to come to this floor and
join in agreement with the gentleman
from Pennsylvania. It does not happen
very often, but I am glad we can be
here.
This is about the working class. I
represent a district in northeast Ohio
that has high union membership. As
the gentleman from Pennsylvania stat-
ed a few minutes ago, there are a lot of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.060 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5972 July 17, 2019
contract negotiations. They are always
happening. And more often than not,
over the last 20 or 30 years, the men
and women of labor have been forced to
negotiate contracts where they didn’t
get an increase, maybe a 1 percent, 11⁄2
percent increase, but they were always
able to sustain their healthcare. So
this is a very important piece of legis-
lation, one I know we have been work-
ing on.
I want to thank the gentlewoman
from Washington State. I want to
thank Chairman NEAL from the Ways
and Means Committee. This has been a
long time coming. I hope we can fix
this, and I hope it is the first step to us
building out a better healthcare sys-
tem that is more affordable, more ac-
cessible, more innovative, and more fo-
cused on prevention as we move down
road in the next several months.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
I want to thank my colleagues on the
other side.
There is an old saying in life that
sometimes you get a second chance to
do the right thing. Eight years ago
when the Affordable Care Act was
passed, I am sure it was an oversight or
an undersight or just not actually un-
derstanding what was taking place
that day, my colleagues on the other
side at that point were looking to pass
the Affordable Care Act, and one of the
victims in that was employer-spon-
sored insurance.
We referred to it today as the ‘‘Cad-
illac tax,’’ and I am glad we used that
term, quite frankly. I told you earlier I
am a Cadillac dealer, so I am really
happy to hear it. Any time anybody
thinks something is outstanding, they
call it a Cadillac.
But what we are going to do today
has nothing to do with fancy cars. It
has nothing to do with extravagant
health plans, but it does have every-
thing to do with punishing hard-
working Americans and their families.
What we are doing today is a crucial
step toward protecting employer-spon-
sored health insurance for all Ameri-
cans.
Again, as I said earlier, we are doing
the right things for the right reasons
for the right people, not just Repub-
licans, not just Democrats, but every
single American out there who gets his
or her health insurance through their
employer.
It is a remarkable thing to see hap-
pen here on the people’s floor, the peo-
ple’s House, where we come together
and agree that we can fix a wrong, we
can right a wrong, we can make things
right that we maybe had a different
look at 8 years ago but we decided
today that it just really makes sense
to do that.
I want to give a special thank-you,
though, to my good friends TOM REED
and JOSH GOTTHEIMER for forming the
Problem Solvers Caucus. In the rules
package this year, they were able to
bring up a rule that says if you get 290
sponsors or cosponsors on a piece of
legislation, that needs to come for-
ward.
JOE COURTNEY has worked on this for
many years, and we have already
talked about the number of people who
were already on board and ready to see
this come forward, but it just couldn’t
get through the procedures to get to
the floor. And I think when I go back
home, people would say to me, if you
have so many people that agree on the
same thing and are doing the right
thing for the right reasons, why can’t
you get it done? And then you have to
say: Well, you know what? Not only do
you not understand it, I don’t either.
b 1700
If we are acting in the best interests
of the people we represent, then we
should be able to do these things. So
sometimes you take a look at what is
holding you back from doing the right
thing and you say there is something
in the rules that needs to change, and
that has taken place today.
But the really great part of it is—the
really great part, is that Republicans
and Democrats are coming together in
the peoples’ House and doing the right
thing, ensuring, at least from our part
of the Congress, that we can repeal this
onerous tax on hardworking Ameri-
cans.
So I am so glad to be here today and
I am so thankful. Working with JOE
COURTNEY has been absolutely mar-
velous. The gentleman has really had
staying power. He has never given up
on this. He has stayed on it and stayed
on it and stayed on it. There is an old
saying: Play through the whistle.
I have got to tell you, Madam Speak-
er, in this case, JOE COURTNEY played
through the echo of the whistle. He
never gave up.
So to be here with my colleagues
today and coming to a conclusion that
this is the right thing for us to do is
really good.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank my
friends that came here and spoke today
on behalf of our side of the aisle for
supporting this.
We have had an opportunity this
afternoon to do something, to do some-
thing not for ourselves, but for the peo-
ple who sent us here to represent them.
Madam Speaker, having said that, I
would urge all of my colleagues to vote
in support of this piece of legislation
and pass it and send it on to the Sen-
ate, where we would hope they would
understand that at this end of the Cap-
itol, there is overwhelming support for
hardworking Americans and their
healthcare.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
strongly support H.R. 748, the Middle
Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act
of 2019.
This legislation has been a bipartisan
goal since I came to Congress in 2012,
the permanent repeal of the Cadillac
tax. The original design of the Cadillac
tax was meant to be a narrowly tar-
geted tax on the most extravagant
plans.
Instead, the tax will hit working
families for a variety of factors far be-
yond their control. That includes age,
geography, and occupation.
A recent analysis from the Kaiser
Family Foundation found that the Cad-
illac tax will impact over 20 percent of
employers when the tax goes into ef-
fect in 2022. When flexible spending ac-
count contributions are included, that
number jumps to over 30 percent and
would affect just under half of all
workers by 2030.
While the intended goal of the Cad-
illac tax was to put downward pressure
on plan costs, the mechanics of the tax
will simply put more costs onto work-
ing families in the form of higher
deductibles and greater cost-sharing so
employers can avoid the tax.
Madam Speaker, I remind my col-
leagues that healthcare costs are a top
concern of the American people, and
today we can take a meaningful step to
address that concern.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members
to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this legislation, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 748, the Middle-Class
Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act. This impor-
tant, bi-partisan legislation will finally repeal,
once and for all, the excise tax on employer
and labor union sponsored health plans, also
known as the ‘‘Cadillac Plan Tax.’’ This fix is
long overdue.
This egregious tax, if allowed to take effect,
would have hit the health insurance that 181
million working Americans and many union
members and their families rely on. It would
have likely resulted in increased costs, and ul-
timately lesser access to health care, thereby
defeating the purpose for passing the A.C.A.
in the first place.
This was one of the reasons why I voted
against the final compromise version of the
A.C.A. in 2010: because while the Cadillac
Tax was not in the House-passed bill, the
Senate added it into the legislation that came
back to the House. I believed then, and still do
now, that imposing a 40 percent tax on health
insurance for union workers would hurt hard-
working American families—the very people
who sent us here to make their lives better.
Madam Speaker, before coming to Con-
gress and before becoming a labor rights law-
yer, I was an ironworker for 18 years. I worked
side-by-side with men and women in the build-
ing trades who wanted nothing more than to
work hard and be able to take care of their
families. When I was President of my local
union, I was acutely aware of the importance
of the benefits, such as health care, that we
would negotiate on behalf of our members. It
is important to remember that generations of
union workers have stood on the picket line or
taken less pay in their paycheck in order to
get better health care coverage. The Cadillac
Tax included in the A.C.A. actually sought to
punish those workers for standing up for their
families. Imposing this tax would have broken
the good-faith promises made to these hard-
working Americans.
I am not alone in recognizing the serious
harms of the proposed excise tax, because
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.096 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5973
July 17, 2019
members of Congress from both sides of the
aisle came together to delay this tax again
and again, moving its effective date from 2018
to 2022. In addition, today’s legislation, H.R.
748, has an astounding 369 cosponsors. I
think that must be some kind of record. That
kind of bipartisanship has sadly become rarer
these days, but this level of agreement only
goes to show that passing this bill is the right
thing to do.
Madam Speaker, this fix for the A.C.A. has
been long-needed and I am pleased that we
are finally taking this important step to pro-
tecting health care for hundreds of thousands
of hard working, middle-class Americans. I
urge my colleagues to support this common-
sense bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. NEAL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 748, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RAISING A QUESTION OF THE
PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, I rise to a question of the privileges
of the House and offer a resolution pre-
viously noticed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the resolution.
The Clerk read as follows:
H. RES. 498
Resolved, that Donald John Trump, Presi-
dent of the United States, is unfit to be
President, unfit to represent the American
values of decency and morality, respect-
ability and civility, honesty and propriety,
reputability and integrity, is unfit to defend
the ideals that have made America great,
unfit to defend liberty and justice for all as
extolled in the Pledge of Allegiance, is unfit
to defend the American ideal of all persons
being created equal as exalted in the Dec-
laration of Independence, is unfit to ensure
domestic tranquility, promote the general
welfare and to ensure the blessings of liberty
to ourselves and our posterity as lauded in
the preamble to the United States Constitu-
tion, is unfit to protect the government of
the people, by the people, for the people as
elucidated in the Gettysburg Address, and is
impeached for high misdemeanors that the
following Article of Impeachment be exhib-
ited to the Senate:
Article of Impeachment exhibited by the
House of Representatives of the United
States, in the name of itself, of the people of
the United States, against Donald John
Trump, President of the United States, in
maintenance and support of its impeachment
against him for high misdemeanors com-
mitted as President constituting harm to
American society to the manifest injury of
the people of the United States:
Article I.
The House of Representatives on July 16,
2019, strongly condemned President Donald
Trump’s racist comments that have legiti-
mized and increased fear and hatred of new
Americans and people of color by saying that
our fellow Americans who are immigrants,
and those who may look to the President
like immigrants, should ‘‘go back’’ to other
countries, by referring to immigrants and
asylum seekers as invaders,’’ and by saying
that Members of Congress who are immi-
grants, or those of our colleagues who are
wrongly assumed to be immigrants, do not
belong in Congress or in the United States of
America.
In all of this, the aforementioned Donald
John Trump has, by his statements, brought
the high office of the President of the United
States in contempt, ridicule, disgrace, and
disrepute, has sown seeds of discord among
the people of the United States, has dem-
onstrated that he is unfit to be President,
and has betrayed his trust as President of
the United States to the manifest injury of
the people of the United States, and has
committed a high misdemeanor in office.
Therefore, Donald John Trump by causing
such harm to the society of the United
States is unfit to be President and warrants
impeachment, trial, and removal from office.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution qualifies.
MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
have a motion to table the articles of
impeachment at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. McCarthy moves to lay the resolution
on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to lay the
resolution on the table.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 332, nays 95,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 4, as
follows:
[Roll No. 483]
YEAS—332
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blunt Rochester
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cisneros
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Eshoo
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meeks
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Neal
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Porter
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—95
Adams
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Blumenauer
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Butterfield
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Castro (TX)
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cohen
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeGette
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Fudge
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Higgins (NY)
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Johnson (TX)
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Kildee
Kirkpatrick
Larsen (WA)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.073 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5974 July 17, 2019
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Moulton
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pascrell
Payne
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Raskin
Richmond
Roybal-Allard
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Scott, David
Sherman
Speier
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Vargas
Vela
Velázquez
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
DeFazio
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
Walker
b 1738
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, and Ms. WILSON of
Florida changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’
to ‘‘nay.’’
Ms. KAPTUR, Messrs. TAYLOR and
HASTINGS changed their vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to table was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. PIN-
GREE). Proceedings will resume on
questions previously postponed. Votes
will be taken in the following order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 492;
Adoption of House Resolution 492, if
ordered;
Passage of S.J. Res. 36;
Passage of S.J. Res. 37;
Passage of S.J. Res. 38; and
Adoption of H. Res. 497.
Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 582, RAISE THE WAGE ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 492) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 582) to provide
for increases in the Federal minimum
wage, and for other purposes, on which
the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
194, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 484]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—194
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Abraham
Beatty
Gabbard
Herrera Beutler
Hudson
Roybal-Allard
Walker
b 1746
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
197, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 485]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.063 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5975
July 17, 2019
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—197
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
Walker
b 1754
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED TRANSFER TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA OF CER-
TAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES AND
SERVICES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on passage of
the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 36) pro-
viding for congressional disapproval of
the proposed transfer to the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
the Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian
Republic of certain defense articles and
services, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 238, nays
190, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 486]
YEAS—238
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—190
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.065 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5976 July 17, 2019
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
Walker
b 1801
So the joint resolution was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES OF CERTAIN
DEFENSE ARTICLES AND SERV-
ICES
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York).
The unfinished business is the vote on
passage of the joint resolution (S.J.
Res. 37) providing for congressional dis-
approval of the proposed export to the
United Arab Emirates, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, and the Republic of France
of certain defense articles and services,
on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 238, nays
190, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 487]
YEAS—238
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—190
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
Walker
b 1808
So the joint resolution was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA OF CER-
TAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES AND
SERVICES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the vote on passage
of the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 38)
providing for congressional disapproval
of the proposed export to the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia and the United King-
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ire-
land of certain defense articles and
services, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 237, nays
190, not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 488]
YEAS—237
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\H17JY9.REC H17JY9
abonner
on
DSKJLXR7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5977
July 17, 2019
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—190
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—5
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
Speier
Walker
b 1815
So the joint resolution was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE
FIND WILLIAM P. BARR AND
WILBUR L. ROSS, JR., IN CON-
TEMPT OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on agreeing
to the resolution (H. Res. 497) recom-
mending that the House of Representa-
tives find William P. Barr, Attorney
General of the United States, and Wil-
bur L. Ross, Jr., Secretary of Com-
merce, in contempt of Congress for re-
fusal to comply with subpoenas duly
issued by the Committee on Oversight
and Reform, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays
198, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 489]
YEAS—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—198
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\H17JY9.REC H17JY9
abonner
on
DSKJLXR7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5978 July 17, 2019
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
Walker
b 1822
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DAMON PAUL NELSON AND MAT-
THEW YOUNG POLLARD INTEL-
LIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT
FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018, 2019,
AND 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 491 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 3494.
Will the gentleman from New York
(Mr. ESPAILLAT) kindly take the chair.
b 1825
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
3494) to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for intelligence and in-
telligence-related activities of the
United States Government, the Com-
munity Management Account, and the
Central Intelligence Agency Retire-
ment and Disability System, and for
other purposes, with Mr. ESPAILLAT
(Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Tuesday,
July 16, 2019, amendment No. 31 printed
in part B of House Report 116–154 of-
fered by the gentleman from Colorado
(Mr. CROW) had been disposed of.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
154 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 7 by Mr. CHABOT of
Ohio.
Amendment No. 11 by Mr. KENNEDY
of Massachusetts.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. CHABOT
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 178, noes 255,
not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 490]
AYES—178
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Radewagen
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—255
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—5
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
San Nicolas
Walker
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.069 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5979
July 17, 2019
b 1828
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana and Ms.
HAALAND changed their vote from
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MR. KENNEDY
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
KENNEDY) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 237, noes 196,
not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 491]
AYES—237
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—196
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Radewagen
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—5
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
San Nicolas
Walker
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1833
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR. There being no
further amendments, under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York) having
assumed the chair, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Act-
ing Chair of the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union,
reported that that Committee, having
had under consideration the bill (H.R.
3494) to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for intelligence and in-
telligence-related activities of the
United States Government, the Com-
munity Management Account, and the
Central Intelligence Agency Retire-
ment and Disability System, and for
other purposes, and, pursuant to House
Resolution 491, he reported the bill, as
amended by that resolution, back to
the House with sundry further amend-
ments adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment reported from the Com-
mittee of the Whole? If not, the Chair
will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on passage of the bill will
be followed by a 5-minute vote on the
motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 748.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 397, nays 31,
not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 492]
YEAS—397
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.115 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5980 July 17, 2019
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—31
Amash
Biggs
Blumenauer
Brooks (AL)
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Cline
Comer
DeFazio
DelBene
Duncan
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
Grothman
Harris
Huffman
Jordan
Lee (CA)
Lofgren
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Perry
Posey
Roe, David P.
Roy
Tlaib
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Gabbard
Hudson
Walker
b 1842
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal years 2018, 2019, and
2020 for intelligence and intelligence-
related activities of the United States
Government, the Community Manage-
ment Account, and the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Retirement and Dis-
ability System, and for other pur-
poses.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS
TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 748) to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the ex-
cise tax on high cost employer-spon-
sored health coverage, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. NEAL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 419, nays 6,
not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 493]
YEAS—419
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.072 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5981
July 17, 2019
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—6
Amash
Cooper
Harris
Kind
Peters
Roy
NOT VOTING—8
Abraham
Armstrong
Bilirakis
Gabbard
Haaland
Hudson
Meadows
Walker
b 1856
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN EN-
GROSSMENT OF H.R. 3494, DAMON
PAUL NELSON AND MATTHEW
YOUNG POLLARD INTELLIGENCE
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FIS-
CAL YEARS 2018, 2019, AND 2020
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that in the engrossment
of the bill, H.R. 3494, the Clerk be au-
thorized to make technical corrections
and conforming changes to the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Connecticut?
There was no objection.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I urge
the Speaker to immediately schedule
this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
b 1900
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CISNEROS). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from New Jer-
sey?
There was no objection.
f
CONGRATULATING TYKHIL
GREENE ON BEING FIRST AFRI-
CAN AMERICAN VALEDICTORIAN
OF UNIVERSITY ACADEMY CHAR-
TER HIGH SCHOOL
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
acknowledge Tykhil Greene. Mr.
Greene is the first African American
valedictorian of the University Acad-
emy Charter High School in Jersey
City, New Jersey.
Mr. Greene’s hard work over the past
4 years is an incredible feat. He
achieved the highest level of academic
success in his class. He also received
the Salutatorian Award from the Jer-
sey City Community Middle School.
These honors are so well-deserved.
At University Academy, Mr. Greene
challenged himself by taking AP class-
es every year. Each summer, Mr.
Greene worked for the Jersey City De-
partment of Recreation. Even with this
rigorous schedule, Mr. Greene had only
10 absences in 4 years.
He continues to pursue these chal-
lenges as he prepares for college. Mr.
Greene will study international busi-
ness and prelaw at Seton Hall Univer-
sity.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Tykhil
Greene on his hard work and success.
He has a very bright future ahead of
him, and we are proud of him in the
10th Congressional District in the
State of New Jersey.
f
OPPOSING RAISING THE FEDERAL
MINIMUM WAGE
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong opposition to H.R. 582,
which would more than double the Fed-
eral minimum wage.
Numerous studies show that doubling
the minimum wage to $15 an hour
would be catastrophic for small busi-
nesses. The Congressional Budget Of-
fice estimates that this bill would re-
sult in the loss of up to 3.7 million jobs,
which is approximately the same num-
ber of people who live in the State of
Oklahoma.
When I started my own business, I
went without a salary for a full year to
invest in the business, to pay for over-
head, and to keep my employees paid. I
could not have borne these expenses
under a $15 minimum wage.
I think of my scheduler, Naomi Hil-
ton. As a teenager, I hired her in my
small business to be the receptionist in
my office. She worked hard, and within
a year she was promoted to legal as-
sistant, and then to paralegal, and
eventually she earned more than $15 an
hour.
If not for a much lower minimum
wage, I would never have been able to
start my business, hire Naomi, and pay
her more than the minimum wage pro-
posed in this bill.
I support higher wages for all, and
the economy has given us these jobs
without costing millions of jobs and
thousands of small businesses.
f
INCLUSIVITY AND DIVERSITY, NOT
BIGOTRY AND DISCRIMINATION
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I am a
Congressman in no small part due to
civil rights legislation: the ADA that
passed 29 years ago next week.
Inclusivity is not abstract to me. Di-
versity is not just a buzzword.
This weekend, our Nation confronted
bigotry and discrimination, the vile op-
posites of these virtues. That we did so
is not surprising. Our country is not
perfect, built as it is on the original sin
of slavery, but the source of these rac-
ist remarks should shock all of my col-
leagues, as they came from the Presi-
dent himself.
The President’s tweets attacking my
fellow Representatives is inexcusable.
There is no explanation, no possible
context in which they would be accept-
able. They are the product of his world
view that prizes division and conflict.
I believe in compromise. I believe in
trying to work together to better our
country even when we disagree, but
that spirit of tolerance cannot extend
to the blatantly racist and xenophobic
rhetoric.
I voted yesterday to condemn the
President’s remarks, but that should
never have been necessary. Our coun-
try is better than the example this
President is setting. I only hope that
we can heal after this dark chapter.
f
ADDRESSING THE MURDER OF
ROSENDA STRONG
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, sadly,
I rise again today to speak about the
epidemic of missing and murdered in-
digenous women.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:46 Oct 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\H17JY9.REC H17JY9
abonner
on
DSK9F5VC42PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5982 July 17, 2019
After 300 days of searching, the body
of Rosenda Strong was finally found on
the Yakima Nation reservation in cen-
tral Washington.
The life of this young mother of four
was not lost, but taken, as are the lives
of many other Native American women
across the Nation.
Rosenda is a citizen of the Confed-
erated Tribes of the Umatilla, and her
case is one of 71 unsolved cases involv-
ing missing and murdered indigenous
women in Washington State.
Since she went missing last October,
her loved ones have rallied to bring na-
tional attention to the alarming high
number of murder and violence rate
facing Native American women across
the country. Children are left without
mothers, parents are left without
daughters, and communities are left
questioning their safety and their fu-
ture.
This crisis can no longer be ignored.
Congress must act to deliver justice to
victims like Rosenda and so many oth-
ers like her.
f
ENCOURAGING WOMEN TO PURSUE
CAREERS IN STEM
(Ms. MURCARSEL-POWELL asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MURCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, oftentimes Latinas in STEM
are used to being the only women in
the room and often the only people of
color. Women make up only 24 percent
of the STEM workforce, and Latinas
only 2 percent of the entire STEM
workforce, but the future is changing.
I rise today to celebrate the accom-
plishments of Laura and Natalia Coro-
nado, twin sisters who recently grad-
uated from Florida International Uni-
versity with bachelor’s degrees in com-
puter engineering. Now they are each
starting careers working for Intel.
Laura and Natalia are making south
Florida proud and setting an example
for women and girls everywhere.
Breaking into a career field that is
dominated by men is not easy. Believe
me, I know. It is up to all of us to cre-
ate a society where women are encour-
aged to pursue careers in STEM, and
that means promoting diversity and
supporting equal opportunities.
f
CONGRATULATING COASTAL
MIDDLE SCHOOL
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Coastal
Middle School in the First Congres-
sional District of Georgia for being dis-
tinguished as a Lighthouse School to
Watch.
Organized by the National Forum to
Accelerate Middle-Grades Reform, the
Lighthouse Schools to Watch program
celebrates high-performing middle
schools based on four factors: academic
excellence, developmental responsive-
ness, social equity, and organizational
structure.
In Savannah, Coastal Middle School
has been surpassing the norm in all of
these areas, while also taking the ini-
tiative to go the extra mile in others.
The school teaches classes in both Ara-
bic and Chinese, values quality writing
skills, embraces students with disabil-
ities, serves students from abroad, and
provides opportunities for students to
serve the local community.
While Coastal Middle School con-
tinues to excel, schools across Georgia
are also raising the bar. Georgia was
the first of three States in the Nation
to qualify for the National Forum
Schools to Watch program.
Congratulations, Coastal Middle
School. Keep up the good work, and
thank you for your commitment to
providing students in our area with an
exceptional education.
f
RETIREMENT OF ST. CLAIR
SHORES CITY MANAGER MIKE
SMITH
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I rise to congratulate my constituent
in St. Clair Shores, City Manager Mike
Smith, on his upcoming retirement
after nearly two decades of service to
the community.
Mike Smith has been a true hands-on
leader. I ran into him at St. Clair
Shores Memorial Day parade, which is
one of the biggest in the country,
where he was rushing around on a golf
cart, as ever, personally managing this
huge event.
Mike has also been a leader on an
issue extremely important to me and
my fellow Michiganders: water quality.
He has fought for improvements to the
Chapaton Retention Basin, a project I
have made it my mission to help fund
in order to protect water quality in
Lake St. Clair and the Great Lakes
system.
While I will miss Mike’s partnership,
I wish him the very best in his retire-
ment, and I thank him for his tremen-
dous service.
f
OUR JOB IS TO DO THE PEOPLE’S
WORK
(Mr. FULCHER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, in the
last few days, we spent a lot of time in
session in the U.S. Congress reviewing
and debating tweets and personal com-
ments of individuals. In the meantime,
policy debate and the urgent work of
the people are excluded from the agen-
da.
As I speak, among other things, we
are apprehending some 3,000 immi-
grants per day on our southern border,
we will lose around 130 people today
due to the opioid crisis, and our na-
tional debt will increase another $3 bil-
lion or so in just the next 24 hours.
It is clear that the majority leader-
ship does not want to have policy ini-
tiatives that are desired by our current
administration to even get a debate,
but, Mr. Speaker, we have an election
process to deal with those concerns.
It is our job to do the people’s work.
Please, let’s go to work.
f
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE NEED
HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS THAT
WILL WORK FOR THEM
(Mr. TONKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, for years
Republicans in Congress and the White
House have made it a top priority to
end healthcare protections for millions
of Americans. They voted more than 60
times to repeal the Affordable Care
Act, but when the time came, they had
no replacement to offer.
Since President Trump took office,
more than 3 million fewer Americans
have health insurance. They have re-
moved healthcare information from
government websites and arbitrarily
shut down the Federal marketplace
website at peak times to drive down
enrollment.
Now the Trump administration is at
it again, pushing the extreme Texas v.
U.S. lawsuit that would repeal the en-
tire ACA and throw America’s
healthcare system into total disarray.
More than 130 million Americans with
preexisting conditions would lose their
healthcare protections, out-of-pocket
costs would jump for millions of Amer-
ica’s seniors and families, and some 53
million more Americans would lose ac-
cess to quality, affordable health cov-
erage before 2024.
My Democratic colleagues and I are
fighting back to improve coverage and
lower more Americans’ health pre-
miums, bring down prescription drug
costs, and strengthen Medicare and
Medicaid for this generation and the
next.
The American people are right not to
trust this Republican Congress or
President with their healthcare. Let’s
stop this endless repeal without replace
effort and get back to solutions that
will work for the people.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. MARK
CRUMMEY
(Mr. CLINE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, school prin-
cipals are more than just managers of
educators and school activities. These
individuals become students’ friends,
mentors, coaches, and advocates.
Today, I have the distinct honor of
recognizing Dr. Mark Crummey, prin-
cipal of Highland Park Elementary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.124 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5983
July 17, 2019
School in Roanoke, Virginia. Dr.
Crummey was recently named Elemen-
tary Principal of the Year by the Vir-
ginia Parent Teacher Association.
Dr. Crummey has over 25 years of ex-
perience in education. As both an edu-
cator and administrator, his life has
been dedicated to service. His quarter
century of experience continues to en-
rich the lives of the students who pass
through the doors of Highland Park.
During Dr. Crummey’s tenure, stu-
dents have shown improvements in
both grades and test scores, a testa-
ment to his and the staff of Highland
Park Elementary’s efforts.
Mr. Rogers once said: ‘‘Anyone who
does anything to help a child in his life
is a hero to me.’’ I agree with that
statement and want to recognize Dr.
Crummey as a hero in our community.
His continued dedication to the stu-
dents of Highland Park Elementary is
commendable, and I congratulate him
on this incredible honor.
f
b 1915
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
created a minimum wage for all work-
ers to ensure a livable wage. However,
it has been over a decade since the last
increase of the Federal minimum wage,
the longest period without any raise
since the minimum wage was estab-
lished.
Sadly today, $7.25 an hour forces
many Americans to work two, many
times three, jobs to make ends meet.
Someone living in my district mak-
ing minimum wage must work 112
hours a week to afford a two-bedroom
apartment for their family. That is 16
hours a day, 7 days a week. That is two
shifts with no day off.
181,000 workers in my district would
receive a pay raise by increasing the
minimum wage to $15 an hour.
Raising the minimum wage would
help many hardworking Americans rise
out of poverty and reach financial sta-
bility that, right now, is simply out of
reach. We must increase the minimum
wage.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of us to vote
for the minimum wage bill tomorrow.
f
50TH COMMEMORATION OF
APOLLO 11
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
what a glorious week to celebrate the
50th commemoration of Apollo 11.
I rise as someone whose eyes were
wide open when this magnificent act
occurred.
I had the privilege of serving on the
House Science, Space, and Technology
Committee, as well, and on the Space
and Aeronautics Subcommittee. I even
served as they were building this mas-
sive space station.
It is likewise a privilege to represent
the area on which NASA’s Johnson
Space Center is located. Just a few
weeks ago, I walked through mission
control and saw those outstanding men
and women symbolizing those who
were at their station on the very day
that Neil Armstrong touched this mag-
nificent planet. And then to be able to
say, ‘‘one small step for man, and one
large step for mankind,’’ but to know
what the astronauts go through, and
the stars in the eyes of children.
Every year, I hold a Christmas party
of 15,000 for the children in our commu-
nity. The most popular people that
come are the astronauts that I invite.
I am excited about celebrating this
50th commemoration of Apollo 11. I sa-
lute the astronauts, the teams, and
NASA because it opens our eyes to the
wideness of space, the wonderment of
science, and the greatness of America.
God bless them. Congratulations.
And God bless America.
f
CONGRATULATING BRADLEY
FERGUSON
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I want
to take a moment to talk about an ex-
ceptional young person from Mainland
Regional High School in South Jersey.
Bradley Ferguson of Mainland Re-
gional High School was recently se-
lected as a United States Presidential
scholar.
The U.S. Presidential Scholars Pro-
gram was founded in 1964. Since 1964, it
has honored over 7,500 graduating high
school seniors for academic achieve-
ments and contributions to their com-
munities.
One hundred and twenty-one U.S.
Presidential Scholars are honored an-
nually for their academic excellence
and their service. I am so excited that
Bradley is representing South Jersey
with his great achievement. All the
young people being honored with this
award are proof that education brings
forth excellence.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Bradley
for his accomplishment. I can’t wait to
see whatever his future is going to
hold, but we all know that he is going
to achieve greatness.
f
HONORING HILTON RAY SEGLER
(Mr. BISHOP of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life of my con-
stituent and friend of longstanding,
Hilton Ray Segler. On July 4, 2019, Hil-
ton, a loving husband, father, and
grandfather, passed away at the age of
82 in Albany, Georgia.
He dedicated his professional life to
agriculture. He began in 1957 selling ag
chemicals, was co-owner of NIPAN, and
later sold crop insurance. He is most
remembered for his leadership in the
pecan industry.
Hilton developed a special interest in
pecans and became a leading State
leader and advocate for the pecan in-
dustry. He served as president of the
Georgia Pecan Growers Association for
two terms. As president, and a pecan
grower himself, he testified before Con-
gress on behalf of pecan growers for
three of the last four farm bills.
Hilton’s hard work and desire to bet-
ter the industry led to many accom-
plishments, including crop insurance,
ensuring that conservation and emer-
gency programs were available to
pecan growers; and the Market Access
Program, to aid in building the pecan
export market. His passion and leader-
ship will be sorely missed by the indus-
try.
On a personal note, Hilton was my
friend. I will miss his sage advice and
his wise counsel. He never told me
what I wanted to hear. He always told
me what I needed to hear. The State of
Georgia and our Nation have been
truly blessed to benefit from Hilton’s
leadership and his advocacy.
f
RAISING THE MINIMUM AGE
(Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise in support of the Raise the
Wage Act.
For the last 10 years, the minimum
wage has remained stagnant as the
cost of living has skyrocketed across
the country. Low-income families and
minimum wage workers have carried
the brunt of this burden.
Working Americans deserve sustain-
able living wages, and we should not
accept an economy where parents
working full-time jobs cannot support
their families. A vital part of the
American promise is the right to a de-
cent livable wage.
This legislation will empower our
workforce, strengthen the economy,
and support families across the United
States of America. I look forward to
voting in favor of this important legis-
lation, and I encourage my colleagues
to do the same.
f
COLLEGE AFFORDABILITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. PORTER) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentlewoman from Georgia (Mrs.
MCBATH).
Mrs. MCBATH. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today on the issue of college afford-
ability. Too many of our students are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.126 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5984 July 17, 2019
finding themselves saddled with stu-
dent loan debt after attending preda-
tory institutions. We cannot expect our
students to repay these loans when
they were not given the quality edu-
cation and degree that they paid for.
Students who pursue higher edu-
cation degrees are sometimes faced
with sudden school closures, or the in-
stitution’s loss of accreditation. When
this happens, students are often left
with incredible debts, but no degree to
show for it.
This issue hits very close to home for
me. In March, approximately 1,500 of
my constituents became all too famil-
iar with this situation. Argosy Univer-
sity, an institution ran by Dream Cen-
ter Education Holdings, LLC, closed,
leaving its students with large debts
and class credits they could not trans-
fer. Student veterans were told their
GI benefits were depleted, and that
they would be unable to continue, or
even start over, at another institution.
That is why I am so very proud to
have introduced H.R. 3662, the Relief
for Defrauded Students Act. In 2016, the
Department of Education issued a rul-
ing allowing for students to have their
debts relieved when it was found their
universities severely misrepresented
their services. My bill would codify
this rule and protect students from the
impacts of predatory institutions.
Currently, there are over 180,000 ap-
plications for debt relief claims sitting
at the Department of Education await-
ing decisions. These students deserve
action from the Department, not si-
lence. H.R. 3662 would provide them a
quick and fair process for resolving
these issues.
I am happy to have introduced the
Relief for Defrauded Students Act,
along with Representatives KATIE POR-
TER, ABBY FINKENAUER, CINDY AXNE,
MARY GAY SCANLON, and SHARICE DA-
VIDS. Together, we are committed to
protecting our students and holding
these institutions accountable.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Georgia for her
leadership on this issue and for being
here tonight to talk about those de-
frauded students who are being hurt
and suffering around this country and
whose voices are not being heard here
in Congress.
I also rise to talk about the college
affordability crisis in our country.
Next week, freshmen in college and
their families will be faced with their
first tuition bill. According to the Na-
tional Center for Education Statistics,
the average cost per year is just over
$19,000 for a public 4-year university
and nearly $40,000 for a private univer-
sity. The price tag for postsecondary
education is spiraling out of control,
and the cost of college is increasing at
a rate almost eight times faster than
wages.
Today, nearly 43 million Americans—
that is one in six adults—have Federal
student loan debt. The Federal student
loan portfolio has risen to over $1.5
trillion, more than doubling from just
a decade ago.
Tomorrow’s graduates will face an
average debt of $30,000, a crippling
amount for any young person to shoul-
der, before they have even entered the
workforce. That amount of debt, that
figure, increases every single year,
while students’ ability to pay off this
debt does not.
Even with the most generous interest
rate—4 percent for Federal direct stu-
dent loans—borrowers will owe over
$300 a month on a standard repayment
timeline of 10 years, and they will pay
$6,500 in interest alone.
In 2017, Young Invincibles released a
report on the financial decline of
millennials compared to baby boomers.
Their findings are unsurprising for
those of us familiar with college debt.
Despite low unemployment and eco-
nomic growth, young adults are signifi-
cantly worse off than those in the gen-
eration before them. And for those stu-
dents who are unable to complete their
college degrees, the forecast is even
worse. This is where the real problem
lies. According to the Department of
Education, only 56 percent of borrowers
who left before completing their de-
grees are able to lift themselves out of
that debt.
In 2012, in my book, ‘‘Broke: How
Debt Bankrupts the Middle Class,’’ I
wrote about the financial risks of at-
tending college, especially for those
who are unable to complete their de-
grees.
It is true that the typical worker
with a bachelor’s degree earns 71 per-
cent more than a worker with only a
high school diploma. But those caught
in the middle between the high school
degree and the bachelor’s degree are at
the highest risk of financial insta-
bility.
While the overall level of education
in our country has increased, the larg-
est group of people in bankruptcy re-
mains those with some college.
And let’s be clear: Many of these stu-
dents who are unable to complete de-
grees are not uninterested in an edu-
cation. They enrolled in college and
they wanted to earn that degree. And
many would still love to finish their
degrees. But according to the Depart-
ment of Education, the majority of
those who leave college do so because
of job or financial demands. In fact,
fewer than 8 percent of student loan
debtors in bankruptcy reported that
they left college because they did not
want to continue their education.
Many of these families and students
face demands to care for family mem-
bers or are unable to continue to pay
their tuition or meet their living ex-
penses.
b 1930
And those who are most harmed are
those who come from economically dis-
advantaged backgrounds to begin with.
The power of Pell grants and other
Federal funding streams has dropped
dramatically as the cost of a college
education has skyrocketed. And to
make matters worse, this administra-
tion is rolling back protections for stu-
dents attending for-profit colleges
where some of the worst abuses have
occurred.
I recently spoke with one of my con-
stituents, a 30-year-old man named
Tom who lives in Irvine. Tom’s parents
didn’t earn high school degrees. Not
only did he want to finish high school,
he wanted to get a college degree.
A few years after graduating from
high school, after working multiple
jobs to make ends meet, Tom started
searching for a program that would
help him pursue his passion for graphic
design.
He found The Art Institute of Cali-
fornia online and filled out an interest
form. A recruiter soon called him, and
he was incredibly excited to join the
program and work toward a degree. He
didn’t realize at that time that ‘‘any-
one who could find a way to pay’’
would likely be accepted.
Tom explained to me that the tools
and code that they taught were out-
dated and that his access to his in-
structors was nearly nonexistent. He
graduated with an associate’s degree
and with more than $50,000 in debt.
But he graduated with none of the
skills that he needed for success. While
working jobs completely unrelated to
his field of study, Tom worked to teach
himself the skills he actually needed,
and today he has managed to become a
senior designer for a digital marketing
agency. But his student loan debt is a
constant weight on his shoulders.
He recently got married, and as he
considers starting a family, he finds
himself wondering if he will be able to
financially provide for his children
when he, himself, still owes tens of
thousands of dollars.
I recently joined with my colleagues
in introducing the Relief for Defrauded
Students Act of 2019, which would help
borrowers who were defrauded or mis-
led by their colleges, as the Depart-
ment of Education Undersecretary
Betsy DeVos has failed to follow
through with promises made to protect
borrowers.
But this is not enough. As we have
seen all too frequently, the Depart-
ment of Education and Secretary
DeVos cannot be trusted to safeguard
the interests of students whom, by law,
they are obligated to protect. Because
of that, I believe that we should re-
quire information sharing between the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
and the Department of Education and
that this information sharing would
help make sure that the consumer
agency’s student loan ombudsman has
the data necessary to understand the
challenges that borrowers are facing.
That is why I introduced the CFPB
Student Loan Integrity and Trans-
parency Act. The bill does just what its
name suggests. It mandates that the
Department of Education and student
loan servicers share information and
cooperate with the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau’s student loan edu-
cation ombudsman. That ombudsman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.128 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5985
July 17, 2019
is the number one Federal official
tasked with advocating for students
struggling to repay Federal student
loans.
The bill also requires that the om-
budsman’s office be fully staffed at all
times so that the office can conduct
the level of oversight necessary to pro-
tect student borrowers.
On the ninth anniversary of the pas-
sage of Dodd-Frank, it is time that we
take stock of the protections of that
landmark legislation that prevents an-
other financial crisis. Many of these
protections, the administration and my
Republican colleagues have chosen to
strip away. Even if piecemeal, we must
reanimate those protections estab-
lished under Dodd-Frank or we will
again face the kind of dire con-
sequences that fell on the shoulders of
American families in 2008.
I wrote my book, ‘‘Broke: How Debt
Bankrupts the Middle Class,’’ in 2012.
That was 7 years ago. The college af-
fordability crisis is not new to this
country, and it is not new to this Con-
gress. The crisis has been going on for
years.
While students are unable to finish
their educations because of the finan-
cial burdens and lack of student sup-
ports, while thousands face bankruptcy
because of the high costs of college,
Congress has done nothing. In the 7
months that I have been here, Congress
has done nothing.
How much longer will we wait to ad-
dress the student loan crisis? Because
the students who are buried in debt,
many from degrees that they were un-
able to finish because of financial pres-
sure, cannot keep waiting.
Every day that we do nothing, we are
failing every single person in this coun-
try who pursues a postsecondary edu-
cation. We are stifling our economy
and actively preventing the most vul-
nerable people from achieving eco-
nomic stability and success. No one in
Congress, Democrat or Republican,
should accept this. We are failing our
Nation’s students.
As a mother of three young children,
I refuse to stand by and let this hap-
pen. That is why I have joined with my
colleague, Representative JAHANA
HAYES, to found the first-ever Congres-
sional College Affordability Caucus.
Before being elected to Congress, I
was a university professor, and I spent
nearly two decades helping consumers
who were facing bankruptcy. The mis-
sion of the College Affordability Cau-
cus is to convene a diverse group of
Congress Members to discuss the main
drivers of the increasing cost of higher
education and the resulting accessi-
bility barriers to students who are
seeking a postsecondary degree or cre-
dential.
The College Affordability Caucus will
highlight solutions to the student loan
default crisis, ensure that adequate
guardrails are in place to protect every
student from predatory actors, and re-
duce barriers to college completion
that subsequently heighten college
debt repayment problems for far too
many students.
As we move forward to a reauthoriza-
tion of the Higher Education Act, I
hope that the College Affordability
Caucus can work with other congres-
sional leaders for whom this is a pri-
ority to make sure that we are pro-
tecting our students and ensuring that
everyone has access to a high-quality,
affordable education.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
SOUTHERN BORDER CRISIS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. YOHO) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I am excited
tonight to talk to this audience here
and at home about a serious situation
that has plagued America and Amer-
ican politics since the mid-1980s.
But that is not what I am excited
about. I am excited to offer a bipar-
tisan legislation solution to fix our
broken immigration system.
Before I get into the nuts and bolts of
what we are going to talk about, we
need to look back on past efforts of
what worked and efforts that did not
work.
This body, along with President
Reagan, did immigration reform that
gave approximately 3.5 million individ-
uals amnesty. Reforms were put in
place to prevent a repeat of the illegal
immigration challenge this Nation has
had.
America, time and time again, has
been said to be the most generous
country when it comes to immigration
policies, and I think we can all agree
with that. Over 1 million people mi-
grate to America, legally, per year.
Unfortunately, this body became di-
vided and has continued to be divided
over the enforcement of current laws
and border security and making the
needed reforms and revisions and adap-
tation to the times and needs of today
to ensure our Nation’s borders are se-
cure.
There are many programs where indi-
viduals can migrate to America le-
gally, whether it is for work, to get an
education, to become a citizen, to seek
refuge from a national disasters, fear
for one’s safety because of bad govern-
ment, corrupt government, or fear of
life.
However, this body has become so di-
vided and the situation since 1986 has
grown to the point that we now have a
conservative estimate of over 12 mil-
lion individuals in America illegally,
and the number continues to grow.
The number will continue to grow
until this body stops playing politics
with policies and people’s lives and
puts forth a policy that is best for
America—not best for a political party,
not best for the next election.
If a policy is best for America, the
question is asked: Is it not best for
all—our citizens, the immigrant, and
national security?
What must happen is for this body to
stop playing the political divisive game
that has divided this Nation over the
immigration policies.
The Democratic side, Mr. Speaker,
claims the Republicans are running
concentration camps, tearing children
away from their parents, and throwing
children in cages with no food, no
water, no toothbrushes, et cetera.
The Republicans claim, Mr. Speaker,
the other side wants to have open bor-
ders, and I have to admit, the Demo-
cratic Presidential candidates have
talked about that. The Democrats, Mr.
Speaker, want to give everyone am-
nesty.
Therefore, nothing gets resolved be-
cause the narrative becomes political,
the canyon that has grown between us
grows larger, and nothing gets done.
I am a veterinarian by trade, and
what I have learned is you have got to
look at the facts in front of you; you
have got to diagnose the condition; you
have got to look at the underlying
cause; and then you have to treat ac-
cordingly.
In order for a problem to be solved,
there must be the recognition that
there is a problem.
Let me reference some of the rhet-
oric spoken by the very people tasked
with solving this challenge to our great
Nation, and this was at the beginning
of the year.
House Speaker NANCY PELOSI called
the situation: ‘‘A fake crisis at the bor-
der.’’
Senate Minority Leader CHUCK SCHU-
MER called it: ‘‘A crisis that does not
exist.’’
House Majority Leader STENY HOYER
said: ‘‘There is no crisis at the border.’’
And I can read on and on with the in-
dividuals’ names, but there is no need
to because they are talking points that
don’t change.
Another Member: ‘‘There is no crisis
at the border.’’
Another Member: ‘‘A fake crisis at
the border.’’
‘‘There is no crisis at the border.’’
‘‘We don’t have a border crisis.’’
‘‘A phony border crisis.’’
‘‘A fake crisis at the border.’’
‘‘A crisis that does not exist.’’
‘‘Nonexistent border crisis.’’
‘‘There is no border crisis.’’
This comes from a piece in the Wash-
ington Examiner that Byron York
wrote: ‘‘This moment might be a time
for introspection for those who have
consistently downplayed the urgency
of the situation on the border. Earlier
this year, with the number of illegal
crossings rising; with the nature of the
crossers changing, more families and
more children than in earlier years;
with the testimony of border officials
that they were unable to handle the
situation; with all that happening,
many Democrats and their supporters
in the media forcefully denied that
there was a crisis on the southern bor-
der.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.130 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5986 July 17, 2019
Here are a few more examples, Mr.
Speaker.
‘‘In the media, ‘Never Trump’ Repub-
licans, former Republicans, and other
commentators have joined in.’’
‘‘Former Rep. Joe Scarborough, now
with MSNBC, called the situation ‘an
imaginary border crisis.’
‘‘Former Bush White House official
Nicolle Wallace, also with MSNBC,
said, ‘There’s not a crisis.’’’
‘‘Former Weekly Standard editor Bill
Kristol called the situation ‘a fake cri-
sis.’’’
Another one says: ‘‘A fake crisis.’’
Another one: ‘‘There is no crisis on
the border.’’
Another one: ‘‘There is no crisis at
the border.’’
They are the same talking points
that get passed from one person to an-
other.
Another one: ‘‘A faux crisis.’’
‘‘A make-believe crisis.’’
Even the comedians on late-night tel-
evision weighed in and said: ‘‘A fake
border crisis.’’
In this one article, there are over 26
examples, and there are plenty more
where this came from.
b 1945
‘‘The situation at the border is so
terrible in part because those in power,
and those cheering them on in the
media, have steadfastly resisted com-
monsense measures to reduce the flow
of illegal migrants, the large majority
of whom do not have a valid claim of
asylum, across the border. The result-
ing paralysis in border policy encour-
ages more migrants to come, making
the situation worse by the day.
‘‘Perhaps some of those quoted above
only want to deny the President a vic-
tory,’’ which is shameful. No matter
how sensible the results are, they can’t
give in so that the situation is re-
solved.
The bottom line is, the American
people are less safe; the immigrants are
less safe; and America’s national secu-
rity is threatened.
‘‘Perhaps others are simply looking
for a partisan advantage’’ for the next
election. ‘‘Perhaps some sincerely be-
lieve in open or virtually open bor-
ders.’’
As I said, the Democratic Presi-
dential candidates have all expressed
their views on that.
‘‘It does not matter what their mo-
tives are. The crisis—yes, crisis—at the
border worsens every day that we do
not act.’’
I am happy to say that I think people
have come to their senses, that there is
recognition today that there is a crisis
at our border. The important thing to
note is that if we recognize there is a
crisis at the border, then you can start
to heal the problem, and then you can
start fixing that problem. It starts
with border security and the enforce-
ment of the laws already on the books.
People want to put in new laws and
do all these things. The laws are al-
ready on the books. There are some
flawed laws, like the Flores agreement,
that need to be changed.
I just spoke to a Member of Congress
who returned from the border, and he
has spoken to the border security peo-
ple. He was down there, and he saw
firsthand. He had a shocking report.
The coyotes bringing people in have
control of what we call parishes or lit-
tle neighborhoods. They have control
of an area, and they bring people in.
They are working with the narcotraf-
fickers. They are bringing individuals
into this country.
Understand what is happening here.
An individual who comes in will pay a
coyote up to $8,000 for entry to come
into America. It is more difficult to
bring one individual in than it is with
a child. A person who comes in with a
child only has to pay $5,000 to a coyote.
The reason is that they have to smug-
gle an individual in, get them on a bus,
and they give them a boxed lunch.
This was just reported to us, and that
was from last week.
The person with a child who comes in
only has to pay $5,000 because we have
to process that, so it is easier to get
them in. They can just come across the
border, and our system rolls them in,
so it is only $5,000 to come in.
The coyotes—understand this—and
human traffickers, which are the same,
are advertising in other countries, Af-
rica, the Middle East, the Asia-Pacific
region, and South and Central America
on TV ads. Ads in print say: Come to
America. We can get you in.
They have the prices printed. The
coyotes, the human traffickers, and the
narcos are getting rich at the expense
of the immigrant and the refugee who
truly need to come into America, and
the children.
We always hear on the other side
that it is for the children. Well, by
God, if you believe that, then fix the
dang problem.
It is also at the expense of our Amer-
ican citizens and our children. I was
elected by American citizens, and my
first job is to uphold the Constitution.
My first job is to the people of my dis-
trict who sent me here. My first job is
to protect our constitutional principles
for the people of this Nation.
The other thing that gets threatened
is our national security. The reports
we have right now indicate there are
over 60 countries represented from
around the world, from China and Afri-
ca, that are coming into this country
at the hands of the coyotes.
I want to drop back to 2014. I think it
is interesting that Members on the
other side of this very body who were
saying there is no crisis at the border,
if you look at my first poster here, it is
from June 2014. Let me read you the
headline here, ‘‘Sickening Photos of
the Humanitarian Crisis at U.S. Border
Detention Centers.’’ This was June 16,
2014, and it was written by Brett
Logiurato.
There were Members who are serving
in this Congress today who took these
photos, and they said what a shame it
is that we have these situations at the
border.
You can see this picture. People are
laying on concrete floors.
But then they turn around and ac-
cuse President Trump of laying these
people on concrete floors with no pil-
lows and no blankets. That is 2014,
when President Obama was in charge.
Here is another picture. ‘‘A stag-
gering humanitarian crisis on the U.S.-
Mexico border has left Federal officials
scrambling to provide the basic human
necessities to thousands of undocu-
mented immigrants, most of them un-
accompanied children.’’
The other side will say, well, it is for
the children. I agree. No child should
have to go through that. No parent
should have to go through that in 2014.
Yet, this is 2019. Not a dang thing has
been done in this body to fix this prob-
lem because politicians—and I am al-
most embarrassed to say that I am a
politician—are afraid to fix this prob-
lem.
Do you know why? They will get po-
litical arrows thrown at them. Some-
body will say: Oh, you want amnesty.
You want to deport everybody.
They stay away from this, another
election comes, and nothing happens
other than the situation gets worse.
Let me go to another picture of sick-
ening photos of the humanitarian crisis
at the border detention center. Busi-
ness Insider all the way in Australia is
highlighting how dysfunctional the
American immigration system is. You
see kids running around. They are
barefoot. People are laying on alu-
minum blankets, heat shields.
People are in this situation. This is
not a new crisis. This is something
that has been going on since 1986. It is
coming to a head, and it is going to get
worse if this body does not get the
backbone to do what is right and do
what is right for America. As I said, if
it is right for America, then it is going
to be right for the immigrant, right for
the American citizen, and right for this
country. If we don’t do those things,
then it is going to get worse.
Let’s go to that other picture. There
is a graph here that I want to highlight
before I turn it over to my good friend.
On this graph, I think it is interesting
because numbers and pictures speak
lots of words. This is the southwest
border apprehension for fiscal year
2019.
Before I get into this, President
Trump has taken a lot of heat for try-
ing to resolve a situation that gets
worse every day. He has to do that only
because this body is inept at what it is
tasked to do. This body is the one that
is supposed to write immigration laws.
This body is the one that is supposed to
do the enforcement laws. The President
is tasked with executing the laws. Ac-
cording to Article II, Section 3, he
shall faithfully execute the laws of the
land. But if Congress does not solve the
problem, then he has no other choice.
He has called this an emergency. He
has taken flack for that. He has taken
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.131 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5987
July 17, 2019
all kinds of criticism for trying to do
what is right for this country, trying
to protect our national security, and
trying to have some kind of common-
sense way to slow this down.
Yet my colleagues on the other side
who acknowledged in 2014 that this was
a crisis, at the beginning of this year,
they said there was no crisis. They
criticized him for trying to act.
I want to show this graph. I know it
is probably hard to see from TV, but
look at this graph. We have different
years represented here. We go from 2014
all the way up to 2019. The bottom line
is, 2016, we were actively deporting peo-
ple. There was a bad economy. We
weren’t getting as many people into
this country.
What I want to show is in October
2018. Look at 2019. If we start at Janu-
ary, we are at 54,000 people appre-
hended at the border. This was when
there was no crisis at the border, 58,000
while there was no crisis at the border.
By the time June came around, that
number had grown to 104,000 apprehen-
sions at the border.
There was no crisis, according to my
colleagues on the other side who won’t
come together to solve this problem.
President Trump acted, and he acted
strongly. He appealed to Mexico to help
us with this situation. I commend the
President of Mexico for coming to
terms with President Trump. They put
in enforcement at their southern bor-
der.
You can see exactly the effect of that
when it happened. It happened right
here in the end of June. Since then, the
illegal apprehensions have dropped pre-
cipitously down to under 110,000 in just
a month and a half.
We haven’t changed the laws in this
country. We haven’t increased border
security in this country. But the Mexi-
cans came to rescue and help us. In
fact, the Mexican Government is doing
more to solve this problem for Amer-
ica, American citizens, and immigrants
than my colleagues on the left side.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Iowa (Mr. KING), who is a great
friend of mine and a great proponent of
legal immigration.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Florida for
taking the initiative to claim this time
on the floor of the House of Represent-
atives and bring up this topic.
I point out, Mr. Speaker, to the peo-
ple who are paying attention here at
least, whether or not that is you, that
this is the most complex issue that the
United States of America faces and has
ever faced.
We might face a tax issue or a na-
tional defense issue, and we might face
a healthcare issue. They are very com-
plex and very detailed. But almost ev-
erything else, you can make your mis-
takes, fix them, and move on, but it
doesn’t multiply itself throughout the
multiple generations that we have.
Immigration is very complex. At the
heart of it is something that I heard
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. YOHO)
reference, and that is the word ‘‘1986.’’
I revere Ronald Reagan, and I always
have, except for the two times in all of
history that he let me down. 1986 was
the time he did that, when he granted
amnesty to what turned out to be more
than 3 million illegal aliens in this
country.
It wasn’t the number of illegal aliens
who were granted a reward for break-
ing our laws. Instead, it was the de-
struction of the rule of law. Once you
reward people for breaking the law,
you get more lawbreakers. More
lawbreakers destroy the law.
In the center of everything that I
have done on immigration here in this
Congress in 161⁄2 years has been about
the restoration of the respect for the
rule of law, in particular with regard to
immigration. Yet I see on the other
side of the aisle a constant push to
erode and degrade the respect for the
rule of law and the rule of law itself.
We are dealing with sanctuary cities,
sanctuary counties, sanctuary States,
and sanctuary jurisdictions. In the last
Congress, we passed sanctuary legisla-
tion that went over to Senator MCCON-
NELL’s desk that would have shut it all
off and given a victim standing to go to
court to sue the political subdivision
for compensation for the damage
caused by turning people loose on the
streets who should have been inter-
dicted, put back in the condition they
were in before they broke the law.
I am a little bit extra emotional
about this tonight, Mr. Speaker, be-
cause I get the news from Des Moines,
Iowa. I am going to be delicate about
how I say this because I don’t want to
prejudice an impending prosecution.
We have a triple murder that took
place in Des Moines, Iowa, that peace-
ful city, a triple murder. The indi-
vidual who was arrested for that triple
homicide went into the custody of the
Des Moines police for maybe a few
hours. Shortly, his name came off the
roster for being in their custody.
When you check, he is in ICE’s cus-
tody. It has now been announced that
the individual who is a suspect for a
triple homicide in the peaceful city of
Des Moines, Iowa, is an illegal alien, a
criminal alien.
He also had been interdicted for a
hit-and-run just a couple of months
ago, turned loose on the streets of
Iowa, now potentially becoming guilty
of killing three individuals, a mother,
an 11-year-old daughter, and a 5-year-
old son.
b 2000
‘‘Illegal alien,’’ well, we are not sup-
posed to say that because it hurts their
feelings.
And one of our Members of this Con-
gress has introduced legislation—now,
by the way, it is JOAQUIN CASTRO,
whose brother is running for President
of the United States. He has introduced
legislation to eliminate the use of the
term ‘‘illegal alien’’ in Federal statute
because it hurts people’s feelings.
Hurts people’s feelings, when we have
people going to their graves at their
hands. I think their feelings are hurt a
lot worse. And our compassion needs to
be for those who have been killed and
those who have been injured and those
who have been abused in many ways.
But to just change the terminology of
the reality is just a political state-
ment.
And I would add, on top of that, the
policies that have been advocated on
the other side of the aisle are the poli-
cies that culminate in open borders.
Open borders mean, picking a par-
ticular number that came out of DHS,
in April, 4,117 illegal aliens interdicted
in a single day.
So I got out my little calculator, and
I divided 4,117 into 710,000, which is the
average size of a congressional seat.
That meant that every 24 weeks an-
other congressional district, an entire
congressional district in Iowa, is sup-
planted by illegal aliens coming into
America. And that number could well
be as many as 50, 60, or 70 seats over
the period of a Census time.
So I point this down, in conclusion
here, and compress it so that even
those folks who are the least likely to
understand this will understand what I
am about to describe.
If you were to clear out a county in
the desert of Nevada so that there
wasn’t a single person living there, and
then as we interdict these folks on the
border at the rate of 4,117 in a single
day, and over 24 weeks you accumulate
the equivalent of an entire congres-
sional district, you put them into that
county, the Census shows up and
counts them—710,000. 710,000 of them
then become an entire congressional
district. That entire congressional dis-
trict couldn’t elect a single person be-
cause there wouldn’t be a single citizen
there in 24 weeks.
So that means anybody can move
there and vote for themselves, come to
Congress, and represent 710,000
illegals—that is how bad it is—in only
24 weeks.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Florida.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr.
KING, his passion for this. And I want
to run through a few numbers before I
go to Mr. CHIP ROY from Texas.
Southwest border apprehensions by
U.S. Customs, total apprehensions
from October 2018 to May of 2019,
593,507.
May of 2019, apprehensions alone,
138,887—highest month in over a dec-
ade.
Total inadmissibles in October of 2018
to 2019, 82,808.
Inadmissibles, these are people who
can’t come into the country because of
their record.
Mr. Speaker, 2019, 6 months total al-
ready has exceeded the total for the
year of 2015.
At this time, I yield to Mr. CHIP ROY
from Texas, a passionate individual
about this. And I, again, thank Mr.
KING.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for his leadership tonight in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.133 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5988 July 17, 2019
bringing an opportunity for us to speak
on the floor of the House of Represent-
atives on an issue that is front and cen-
ter for most of the American people. It
is, by far, the number one issue that
the American people care about. I can
particularly speak to the people of
Texas, who are bearing the brunt of the
failed border security, the failed immi-
gration policies of the Federal Govern-
ment.
I had the opportunity to visit an ICE
detention facility in Aurora, Colorado,
this past Saturday. I was out in Denver
for a Western Conservative Summit. I
was visiting family members, and I saw
this terrible story of individuals rush-
ing the ICE facility in Aurora, Colo-
rado, and taking down the American
flag, defacing the American flag, then
raising the Mexican flag.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I was going
to bring this up, and I am glad the gen-
tleman from Texas did.
What happened to the day when mi-
grants came to this country to cherish
liberty and freedom and become en-
rolled in the beliefs that we have to as-
similate?
I appreciate the gentleman bringing
that up because those aren’t friendly
signs, to take down the American flag
and put up the Mexican flag in our
country.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate
the gentleman’s question. I think it is
an important question.
To take down the American flag, de-
face the American flag with the words
‘‘abolish ICE,’’ to turn it upside down
and re-raise it; to raise, then, the Mexi-
can flag alongside of it over this ICE
detention facility, I went there the day
after this occurred. I met with the indi-
viduals running this facility, both ICE
as well as the private individuals, GEO,
that were running it.
What did I find in the facility? It is a
detention facility that houses 1,200 in-
dividuals. It was clean.
There were doctors’ offices. There
was medicine.
There were ping-pong tables.
There were iPads to watch news in
home countries.
There were televisions.
There were video game stations.
There were three square meals.
There were clean bunk beds.
There were people from 57 countries.
Only 29 percent of the people in there
are from Mexico.
Traditionally, this ICE facility has 80
percent of its occupants coming from
individuals who are brought in there
from interior enforcement, usually vio-
lent criminals or people who have vio-
lated our laws other than immigration
laws, and 80 percent are usually of that
population.
Now, 80 percent of that is from people
who are flooding across our border,
overwhelming Border Patrol. ICE has
no beds, no place to put these individ-
uals who have violated our laws. As a
result, you see the overcrowding in the
Border Patrol facilities.
My colleagues on the other side of
the aisle have, for months on end, been
refusing to acknowledge that there is a
border crisis, only awakening in the
last several weeks to finally acknowl-
edge that there is a crisis, to finally
agree to pass only humanitarian aid,
that is, dollars to go to HHS, ORR to
take in individuals, unaccompanied
children, to place them, but then re-
stricting dollars for ICE.
Why? Because I think that the Demo-
cratic Caucus is run by four members
of the Caucus. I don’t think there is a
single Speaker. I think there are four
Speakers, and I think those four
Speakers are deciding the policy for
the Democrat Party. I think, as a re-
sult, we saw precisely what is hap-
pening. We have no resources for ICE—
none.
We are vilifying ICE. We are vilifying
Border Patrol. Speak to the Border Pa-
trol agents on the border who are hold-
ing the line defending the United
States of America while cartels have
operational control of our border, while
the Gulf Cartel, the Reynoso faction,
Los Zetas, the Cartel de Noreste, the
Sinaloas, they are using human beings
for profit. They are using children as
tickets to sell access to the United
States.
Why are they doing that, and how are
they doing that? My Democrat col-
leagues know full well the answer to
that, and they don’t care. They don’t
care that cartels are abusing our laws
for profit, that they are doing so in a
way that violates children, violates
women on the journey, a third of whom
are abused along the journey. And they
do so knowing that Border Patrol is
overwhelmed and refuse to do anything
about it.
Now, what I want to know, and I
don’t know what my colleagues think
about this, but why is it that we have
got about 1 week left before we are
going to adjourn for a 6-week recess,
and yet my Democrat colleagues are
going to do nothing, nothing on the
floor of this body, the people’s House,
to address this calamitous situation,
nothing to provide the resources nec-
essary for ICE, nothing to address the
fact that they only provided $200 mil-
lion for ICE with restrictions on how
the money may be used?
When Barack Obama, former Presi-
dent, asked for $762 million for ICE in
the wake of the unaccompanied alien
children who were coming in 2014—and
this crisis is multiple times worse—
what are my Democrat colleagues
going to do next week to solve this
problem before they leave for 6 weeks?
What are my Democrat colleagues
going to do to save the little girls and
the women who are going to get abused
in the next 6 weeks when everybody ad-
journs for this body to go off to fund-
raisers and trips and go back to their
districts while our border is on fire?
What are my Democrat colleagues
going to do? I will tell you what they
are going to do. Absolutely nothing,
and it is an embarrassment.
It is an embarrassment to this body,
the people’s House, that we are looking
at a southern border that is being vio-
lated. We are looking at a sovereignty
of the United States being violated. We
are looking at little girls and women
being violated by dangerous cartels.
And my Democrat colleagues would
rather waste time on the floor of this
body with meaningless resolutions.
We spent time yesterday doing what?
Taking down the words and having a
vote on words that were a result of a
resolution against a tweet. That is
what this august body did yesterday.
That is what they spent their time
doing.
Did they address the border crisis?
No.
Are they going to address the border
crisis next week? No. They are going to
send us into the August recess, bar-
reling towards deficits well over a tril-
lion dollars, with people streaming
across our border in violation of our
sovereignty to the detriment of our se-
curity, to the detriment of the well-
being of the migrants who seek to
come here, and they are going to do
that, to go home and do absolutely
nothing about the problem.
So I would ask my colleagues: Are we
going to allow this body to adjourn
next week? Are we going to leave the
floor and go home for 6 weeks and
allow that to continue to be the state
of affairs at our southern border?
I think this country deserves better.
I think the migrants who seek to come
here deserve better.
I think we should sit down and roll
up our sleeves and do the job the Amer-
ican people sent us here to do: secure
the border, balance the budget, provide
healthcare freedom, make sure our
men and women have a clear mission
and the tools to do it, and get the hell
out of the way of the American people.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate
the gentleman’s passion, and appre-
ciate him bringing these things out.
And this is something we have sent
President Trump, and I am going to
say tonight, I implore President
Trump—in fact, I am going to chal-
lenge President Trump to reconvene
this Congress at the beginning of the
August recess. And I would do it every
recess from here on out until this body
comes to grips and solves this problem
in a bipartisan, bicameral way; be-
cause, if you don’t do that, Congress
will run out.
Like the gentleman said, they are
going to go fundraise. They are going
to get ready for the next election and
tell everybody how great they did, yet
this problem is getting worse.
President Trump, you can do this. It
hasn’t been done since 1948. That was
President Truman, and he did what was
best for this body.
I can tell you one thing. When you
invade the personal time of Members of
Congress, you get their attention. I
think it is time we do that. I, for one,
will stay here. I think this needs to be
done. This is such a critical issue.
At this time, I would like to go over
a couple more facts, these numbers, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.134 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5989
July 17, 2019
sources, total CBP enforcement, Cus-
tom Border Patrol.
Apprehensions in 2017, total for the
year was 526,901. 2018, that number—be-
cause the word had gotten out. The
drug cartels are very good business
people, unfortunately. They are not
ethical people. They are not people I
would want to have next to us. I don’t
want them in my country. But they are
very good at what they do. The appre-
hensions in 2018 was 683,178.
Now, get this. If people will not come
together in a bipartisan way, they
don’t need to be in Congress.
When you hear these numbers, appre-
hensions year-to-date 2019—keep in
mind, 2017 is 527,000; 2018, 683,000 for the
years. 2019, to date, the end of June,
787,161.
Folks, when are we going to do this?
If not now, when? Are we going to wait
until there are 20 million people here?
40 million people? 50 million people?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT), a great
friend of mine, another great Texan.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Florida, and I ap-
preciate him yielding.
This is something we ought to be
talking about every day because it is a
crisis. It makes a difference. It is help-
ing destroy our country.
And it is really tragic, though, and I
would not superimpose any type of at-
tack on personalities, however, I think
what we really have is not evil inten-
tions. I think it is just massive igno-
rance. Because we have heard over and
over: Oh, if you want to secure the bor-
der, you want just U.S. citizens, then
you are a racist.
So that just reflects an ignorance.
Mr. YOHO. Does the gentleman feel
like it is politics being played over pol-
icy for the next election?
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, there is
no question about that.
Mr. YOHO. Absolutely. It is sick-
ening, sickening for this body, sick-
ening for America.
Mr. GOHMERT. No, it is.
But American citizens are comprised
of every race, of every nationality, all
walks of life. It is one of our strengths,
people coming from so many different
walks of life, countries, races. Yet
when we have applied the standard
‘‘from out of many, one,’’ then we have
been our strongest, all different races,
nationalities.
b 2015
But now, in order to tear down this
country and the greatness in the way
of opportunities and help around the
world for other countries, not seeking
some hegemony, not seeking impe-
rialist motives, we want everyone to be
better off. We want peace. We want
good for everyone.
But if you destroy our borders and
people flood in who are not educated on
what it takes to keep a self-governing
country, you won’t keep it.
Eric Metaxas has a book out on this,
but it goes back to what Benjamin
Franklin said when he was asked at the
end of the convention, ‘‘What did you
give us?’’ And they wondered if it was
another monarchy.
‘‘A Republic, Madam, if you can keep
it.’’
The one thing we know: No country
has lasted, either as a complete democ-
racy like the Athenian city-state or
whether it is a parliamentarian coun-
try—they don’t last 200 years.
We are 230 now. We are moving on.
So, we are in a very desperate situation
to try to keep this shining light on a
hill that shines light for the world.
So, it is important that we have bor-
ders. If we don’t have borders, if we
don’t secure our borders, then we will
come—as many have wanted. They
wanted to see America fall from with-
in.
As Lincoln said, if death be our light,
then we will die by suicide is basically
what he was saying.
We have got to secure our borders so
that we can welcome people continuing
at the rate faster—more people coming
in than any other country in the his-
tory of the world.
But I have had people in my district
say, ‘‘We went to the border. We went
through these facilities. We have all
this information. People are being kept
in cages. It is horrible.’’
Well, I go down a lot, have been down
many times. And I started going down
during the Obama administration.
That is when the cages were built.
They were built by the Obama adminis-
tration. That is when overcrowding
was started, during the Obama admin-
istration.
But it is like there is an intent, as
my friend from Florida was pointing
out, for political purposes, that we
want to try to make the Trump admin-
istration look bad, so we will take all
the wrongdoing that occurred during
the Obama years, the mistreatment of
people that have come in illegally, and
project that onto the Trump adminis-
tration, and we will push to have even
less enforcement on our borders.
We will make these promises of, gee,
we are working on all these kinds of
things. Here is an article from The
Hill: ‘‘Democrats calling for decrimi-
nalization of illegal entry abandoning
national sovereignty.’’
They want to decriminalize—it is
against the law, it is a crime to come
into the country illegally. They are
sending every message they possibly
can. It is not a dog whistle. It is a big
neon sign saying ‘‘Come.’’ Whether you
are coming from Asia, Africa, South
America, Central America, we don’t
care. Just come illegally, as many as
you can. We will overwhelm these
folks. We are going to be able to prob-
ably get a lot of people that are here il-
legally voting, and then will be the end
of the Republican Party.
And what they don’t say—maybe
they don’t realize—is that it will also
be the end of a self-governing nation as
we knew it. Because the way this nor-
mally works out—and we are well be-
yond the maximum, basically, 200
years. When we lose our freedom, it
won’t come back. We are done. And
there will be no place for people being
mistreated around the world to come
after that.
It is interesting, though, when I have
been down to the border, especially
during the Obama years, the Obama ad-
ministration personnel kept me out of
some of those facilities. We had to real-
ly raise Cain and get in there.
So, we have got people who are not
part of the government, and they go
waltzing into these facilities. That is
ridiculous.
Then we know that there were two
pictures that were initially—they had
to be withdrawn, but they were from
2014, about people in cages. I had seen
that my friend, Mr. YOHO, had the pic-
tures. Those are from the Obama ad-
ministration.
Mr. Speaker, let me just finish by
pointing out, this truly is a threat to
the existence of a self-governing coun-
try as we have known it. This is serious
stuff.
For those who have big hearts, those
of us that want to help as many people
as we can, destroying the fabric of a
self-governing country will not allow
better fabric to take its place.
You will have another Venezuela. It
always works out. People try to self-
govern for so long, and then, eventu-
ally, untoward efforts bring about
chaos.
And, normally, the way chaos is
dealt with is push for a monarchy, a to-
talitarian government, a Putin, a Cha-
vez, a Hitler. There is some effort to
get somebody in that can get all of this
under control, and it is the end of a
democratic republic.
So, I am really pleased that my
friend, Dr. YOHO—I tell friends, he is a
guy, having been a veterinarian, that
was best equipped to work in Congress
because he has had so much experience
dealing with the south end of a north-
bound horse. So I thank him for bring-
ing about this Special Order, and I am
looking forward to many more. We
need to talk about this, this is a
threat.
Mr. YOHO. This is a threat. This is
not about being racist. It is about
doing rule of law.
Our good friend STEVE KING brought
up a great point. This is rule of law.
That is all we are asking: Follow the
rule of law.
This body has been derelict in their
duty, and that is why this problem is
growing, because they put politics
above policy. They are afraid to stand
up.
It is like I said. We have asked Presi-
dent Trump, reconvene Congress, bring
us back in at the August recess. And I
would bring us back every time until
we fix this problem, period.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT).
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, our
Border Patrol agents are exhausted.
They have worked so many hours.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.135 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5990 July 17, 2019
We had a hearing today in Judiciary
on a bill adding requirement after re-
quirement, millions and millions of
dollars. They didn’t give them any
money in the 4.6 to do the job of en-
forcing the border. Our Border Patrol
agents need help. They are in big trou-
ble.
Mr. YOHO. They do. I appreciate the
gentleman bringing that up. I will talk
about that at the end.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. PERRY), my
good friend and colleague, the briga-
dier general.
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Florida for hosting
this Special Order and continuing to
elevate this issue and keep talking
about it.
The last time that we were speaking
on this floor about the crisis on our
southern border with Mexico, our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
were still denying there was a crisis, if
you remember.
In report after report—if you
watched CNN, MSNBC, et cetera—they
said it was a manufactured crisis, man-
ufactured by Donald Trump.
To their credit, they finally agreed
that there is a crisis. I just thought,
well, such is the state of the Democrats
on the other side of the aisle. But mere
acceptance of reality counts for
progress around here. But we have got
to be thankful that we are at least hav-
ing a conversation sometime.
But you would think, with this crisis
on our border—5,000 people a day com-
ing illegally. That doesn’t count the
ones coming at points of entry. Those
are in between the points of entry. And
that also doesn’t count the ones that
weren’t caught, right? Those are the
ones we caught.
Usually, Border Patrol says you can
times two whatever we caught because
others are getting through. You would
think that we would be working around
the clock here to fix this crisis at the
border since we all now agree that
there is a crisis.
But, instead, my good friends on the
other side of the aisle are focused on
smearing the President. I get the par-
tisanship, but what really troubles me
is they are also focused on smearing
Border Patrol and ICE agents that are
duty bound. They raise their right
hand and take an oath to uphold and
defend the Constitution and the laws
that we created, that this body cre-
ated. They are just doing their job that
we asked them to do, and for that, they
are being criticized, demonized, and
smeared.
To add further insult to injury, some
of our colleagues are now saying that
they want to abolish these folks, the
agencies—ICE and Homeland Security.
You didn’t hear that wrong. That is a
solution.
So, a solution to the problem of peo-
ple coming illegally, pouring across the
border, offered by the other side of the
aisle, in some cases, is to abolish the
agencies and the people who are work-
ing to stop it.
This completely sounds wrongheaded
to me. I don’t know who that makes
sense to, but it doesn’t make any sense
to me.
Now, what other ideas have we
heard? Of course, amnesty for illegal
foreign nationals. That is going to fix
the problem, because if you know that
you can break the law and nothing is
going to happen to you, I am sure that
is not an encouragement to keep on
breaking the law. I am sure that is not
somehow.
Decriminalizing illegal entry. So, if
you have somebody trespassing on your
land and you go to the police and you
say, ‘‘Hey, these folks keep trespassing
on my land,’’ the police say, ‘‘Well,
here is our solution. We are just going
to make trespass legal now. Are you
good with that?’’
Well, that doesn’t seem like much of
a solution.
Eliminating detention facilities. So,
recently, a study maintains that 30
percent of the young people—usually
young girls, but not exclusively, but
young people that are being brought
in—because these folks know that if
they bring a child with them, it is tan-
tamount to just immediate entry—30
percent of them had no connection, had
no familial—family connection to the
person that they are with.
So, the reason to have detention fa-
cilities, among other things, is to try
and figure out: Is this child with a par-
ent or a relative, or is this child being
trafficked?
A solution to this overwhelming
problem offered by my friends on the
other side of the aisle is to just get rid
of the detention facilities.
So, the last place that this small
child is looking for salvation, for safe-
ty, to stop the trafficking that is hap-
pening at that time, looking to Amer-
ica, probably praying and hoping that,
finally, when I get to America, they
are going to find out that I am being
exploited in horrific ways.
Our good friends on the other side of
the aisle say, No, we are not going to
do any of that. Just keep on exploiting
the kids, but don’t do it here. Don’t do
it in Mexico either. Now, just keep ex-
ploiting them in your town.
Well, that is not much of a solution.
To me, that is horrific, thinking about
that.
Of course, then, another solution is
providing taxpayer-funded healthcare
for people that came here illegally.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t know where ev-
erybody lives, but I know that people
in the community that I am privileged
to represent are having a hard time
paying for their own healthcare now,
let alone paying for people that came
here illegally.
And, again, that is a solution to stop
people from coming across the border
offered from our friends on the other
side of the aisle.
Let’s face it, these are incentives.
These aren’t solutions to fix this prob-
lem; these are incentives to exacerbate
the problem.
I don’t know what reality my good
friends on the other side of the aisle
are residing in, but, so far, it seems to
me their platform has been amnesty,
apathy, or apoplexy.
And we are frustrated because we
know that the solutions are out there.
We have worked on them here, and we
are happy and willing to work with our
friends and colleagues on the other side
of the aisle, but they seem paralyzed
by theatrics in politics.
We know that loopholes in our immi-
gration laws are being exploited by
human traffickers and drug cartels.
They are taking laws designed to help
the most helpless, and they are using
them for profit at a tragic cost to chil-
dren and families.
Yet, the policies and the solutions
proposed by our good friends on the
other side of the aisle expand those
loopholes or create even brand-new
ones.
And we know, with hundreds of thou-
sands of people streaming across the
border, we need funds for beds and de-
tention space.
Some of our friends on the other side
of the aisle say, ‘‘Well, we don’t want
you to detain these people, and we are
not going to provide any funding for
beds.’’
So the answer is, when they come
across the border, don’t even talk to
them. Just let them keep on going. Let
the children stay with their trafficker,
end detention altogether, leaving the
trafficked child at the mercy of their
trafficker.
Then there is the dangerous
transnational criminal organization,
not only trafficking in children, but
the drugs that are ravaging your very
community.
b 2030
They are coming across our southern
border. Barriers, fencing, and wall,
they are a force multiplier, because if
our Border Patrol agents don’t have to
stare at this place right here on the
border because there is a barrier there,
they can look over here where traf-
fickers are coming across. Without any
barrier, they have to look everywhere,
and there is just simply not enough of
them.
The other side shut the government
down, trying to stop us from securing
the border.
These cartels make massive profits.
You heard about El Chapo’s sentence
today. It is estimated he was making $3
billion a year trafficking children and
drugs into your community, $3 billion
a year.
El Chapo is in jail. Do you think
somebody else didn’t take over? Do you
think he was the only cartel in Mexico?
The other side is wasting time on
this floor passing partisan bills that
have no hope of becoming law. Mean-
while, ICE made more than 1,500
human trafficking arrests, and 97 per-
cent of those were for sex trafficking.
20,000 children were illegally smuggled
into the United States in December of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.138 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5991
July 17, 2019
last year alone, 20,000 children. These
are little kids.
I know the statistics start to run to-
gether, but these numbers must be re-
cited. As of March this year, CBP has
seen over a 50 percent spike in gang
members apprehended at the southern
border.
Did you look to see what happened in
Los Angeles just this week, the arrests
and the horrific crimes? Is this what
we want in our communities, people
hatcheting and macheteing each other
to death, cutting each other apart?
We have a great country. There is no
reason to do this.
In the last 2 years, ICE has arrested
266,000 aliens with criminal records.
Those aliens had convictions, including
100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and
4,000 homicides.
If you believe the cartels are going to
stop making millions a year if we de-
criminalize the border and abolish ICE,
you are not living in reality.
Every day, children are being recy-
cled across the border, serving as
human shields. They send them across
with somebody; they send them back;
and then, they come back with some-
body else. That is trafficking. There is
no consequence to it.
It is time to stop just talking about
protecting the children being ex-
ploited. It is long past time to start
protecting them and our communities
by closing the loopholes that are used
to hurt them.
A famous quote we have all heard
goes like this: ‘‘The only thing nec-
essary for the triumph of evil is that
good men and women do nothing.’’
That is happening, Mr. Speaker, in this
House.
The country is still waiting on the
leadership of this House of Representa-
tives to do something.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. YOHO) for inviting
me and keeping this issue front and
center.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate
the gentleman from Pennsylvania’s
passion and leadership on the things he
has done.
He talked about it. Mr. ROY talked
about it. Mr. GOHMERT talked about. It
is edifying.
The ICE agents and the Customs and
Border Patrol agents are doing a job
that this body created with laws and
policies, and then hired them. We have
people on the other side of the aisle
who are criminalizing the very people
we hired to do this job that they have
to do. And it is a thankless job.
I know our side, the Republican
Party, and, I am sure, some Democrats
are truly thankful that our ICE agents
and Customs and Border Patrol are
there. They are taking time away from
their families, and they are taking the
time that they could be doing other
things, but they are keeping our Na-
tion safe.
As Members of Congress, we here are
thankful for them, and I know our Na-
tion is thankful for them.
I implore, again, President Trump to
reconvene Congress, if it leaves with-
out solving this problem, in the August
recess and every time. He can be the
first President since President Truman
in 1948 to do this.
I implore anybody who is watching to
call your Members and tell them you
want this problem solved. There is no
reason that this does not get solved.
This is something we can do.
Throw politics out of it. Let’s get
good policies. Good policies for Amer-
ica are good policies for the migrant,
good policy for our citizens, and good
policy for our country.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
KEEPING THE PROMISE OF SOCIAL
SECURITY AND MEDICARE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT) for 30 minutes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, to-
night is a continuation of a series I
have been doing on the floor every
other week, depending on the chaos of
the floor schedule. I take about a half
an hour and walk through things I see
in the numbers and, in many ways, ex-
press my intense frustration at both
the Democrats and many of my broth-
ers and sisters on the Republican side
for not taking a step backward from
the daily chaos that has become the
House of Representatives to realize
that the single biggest threat to the
cohesion of our society is demo-
graphics. I am going to walk through
what that means.
The reason I always put up this par-
ticular board is that we have devel-
oped, in our office, a five-prong attack
on what society does financially to be
able to keep the promises of Social Se-
curity and Medicare.
The demographics I was speaking of
are those of us who are baby boomers.
There are 74 million of us born, func-
tionally, in an 18-year period, with
10,300 of us retiring or turning 65 every
single day.
The math is devastatingly ugly. My
instinct is maybe that is why it is
avoided in conversation around here,
because the math is difficult. It is un-
comfortable. It is also real.
Something I don’t often do, but I
want to read a simple paragraph from a
June 11, 2019, analysis from the Man-
hattan Institute that was analyzing
the numbers from the Congressional
Budget Office. They are talking, right
now, about just Social Security and
Medicare. ‘‘Over the next decade, 91
percent of the projected increase in
budget deficits, which are set to ap-
proach $2 trillion, comes from the in-
creased cost’’ of Social Security, Medi-
care, and the associated interest.
Think of that. In the next decade,
when we talk about the growth of the
debt and deficit, 91 percent of that is
just, functionally, the demographic
growth for Social Security and Medi-
care.
Another way to think about that is,
every 5 years, just the growth in Social
Security and Medicare equals the en-
tire Defense Department.
If we are going to keep our promises
as a society—these are earned benefits.
We made a promise as a society, avoid-
ing the reality of the math.
Think about this part of this para-
graph. ‘‘Over the next 30 years, Social
Security and Medicare are projected to
run a $100 trillion cash shortfall, in-
cluding resulting interest costs, while
the rest of the budget is projected to
run a $16 trillion surplus.’’ Think about
that one more time—over the next 30
years.
I have a 31⁄2-year-old little girl.
Doesn’t she deserve to live in an Amer-
ica that continues to be prosperous?
With these sorts of numbers, it is im-
possible. Functionally, our debt defi-
cits, the attempt to try to keep some
of our promises, is going to consume
everything around us.
In previous times on the floor, and I
know I am going to be doing it again,
we brought in a series of what the left
often says: ‘‘Well, we will tax the rich
more. We will do this and this.’’ They
only cover tiny portions. The scale of
this doesn’t work in our modern rhet-
oric.
Think about that last sentence
again. If you remove Social Security
and Medicare, over the next 30 years,
the budget has a $16 trillion surplus.
One of our boards has a higher number
because the board is a bit out-of-date.
But the budget is what we call a cash
surplus. The associated revenues ex-
ceed the associated expenses.
If you add in Social Security and
Medicare, it is a $100 trillion deficit,
with its associated interest costs.
What are we going to do? We believe
we have a fighting chance. There was a
time, a decade ago, if you did certain
senior options and those things in
Medicare, gave some pricing power and
options, you could see where you could
flatten out some of that debt-to-GDP
curve and make the baby boomers sur-
vivable, economically.
We have waited too long. We have
missed that window. Now our argument
is that we have to do everything. We
have to do things that grow the econ-
omy, a Tax Code that maximizes eco-
nomic expansion, trade that maximizes
economic expansion, regulations,
smart regulations, using technology
that maximizes economic expansion.
Labor force participation, what do
you do to encourage workforce entry?
We are doing remarkably well right
now. We still have a problem with mil-
lennial men. We still need to find ways
to create some spiffs within the Tax
Code, within the retirement parts of
the code, to encourage seniors who are
healthy, wish to do it, and are prepared
to do it, to stay in the labor force.
We have to do things to encourage
family formation and to move to an
immigration system that is talent-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.140 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5992 July 17, 2019
based, so it maximizes economic vital-
ity.
We are going to have to look at the
earned entitlement and things we can
do to put spiffs and incentives within
there to change the cost of healthcare,
to encourage staying in the labor force,
smart decisionmaking.
One of these is really important to
me. I have spent a lot of time on the
floor—aggressive adoption of disrup-
tive technology, particularly in
healthcare.
In this body, we have a running de-
bate. The Republicans say our
healthcare reform is who should get
subsidized, who shouldn’t, and we will
add some market forces. The Democrat
side is: Well, we won’t add market
forces. We will do a collectivization,
but we will see who pays and who gets
subsidized.
We are having an argument about the
money, on who gets to pay, not what to
pay.
There is technology, and we have
done this over and over on the floor,
that is about to crash the price of
healthcare. If this body is prepared to
have that Blockbuster moment—and
when I say, ‘‘Blockbuster moment,’’ I
mean Blockbuster video moment,
where technology changes things. We
no longer go down to the neighborhood
shopping center and get a little silver
disk to shove into our player at home.
Instead, we go home and hit a button.
It turns out, in healthcare, you have
two sides. You have technology, every-
thing from something you can blow
into that tells you if you have the flu,
to the thing you wear on your body
that helps diagnose you, to the autono-
mous healthcare clinics that are going
up around Phoenix, to the other side,
the single-shot cure for hemophilia,
things that actually cure disease.
If we can get our heads straight and
say we need to crash the price of
healthcare—it will be hard. That type
of economic technology disruption is
going to scare a lot of our friends,
whether those in certain medical prac-
tices or those who offer certain serv-
ices. But we don’t have a choice.
I want to walk through some. First,
some of the good news and the reality
on the math because this place is sub-
stantially a math-free zone.
Last week, I had floor time sched-
uled, but the floor ran long because,
well, the chaos on the floor. I ran into
one of my friends, a Democrat from the
Midwest, and we were talking about
the speech I was about to give.
His immediate reaction was: Well,
David, you had that tax reform a cou-
ple of years ago, and that is the real
reason.
You look and say, no. If you think
about what has happened in labor, in
tax revenues, in the dramatically fewer
people who actually need social serv-
ices, it has been incredibly positive for
the economy.
b 2045
So I put this board up for him. Take
a look. If you actually take a look at
these years, the middle bar chart, that
is 2018. The blue is 2017. The gray is 2019
fiscal year.
This is the first 9 months of what we
call receipts. For those of us on the
Ways and Means Committee, this is
substantially our responsibility is
these receipts. Highest revenue first 9
months in U.S. history. Adjusted for
constant dollars, the second highest in
U.S. history. The doom and gloom and
the crazy things that were said about
tax reform aren’t true, and the math
says so.
We don’t have a choice. If we do not
substantially grow this economy, dra-
matically grow this economy over the
next couple decades—not the next cou-
ple years, but next couple decades—you
can’t mathematically cover the prom-
ises we have made on Social Security
and Medicare.
And I don’t know why it is so terri-
fying for elected Members to actually
be honest about the math. The chart is
there. If you don’t believe me, go onto
the Treasury’s website, look at the re-
ceipts that have come in—highest in
history; adjusted for inflation, con-
stant dollar, second highest in history.
It is working. It is working.
There are other things that are also
really optimistic. We are getting one of
those—do you remember our five
points? Getting the economy to grow
long term with stability, you all saw
the June labor force report, jobs re-
port—incredibly good numbers, far be-
yond our expectation.
But what was also really optimistic
for those of us who are trying to build
these models is the number of the pop-
ulation who were coming back into the
labor force.
And I know this is geeking out, but
when you actually see more job post-
ings than you have available workers,
amazing. If I told you that a couple
years ago, you would have laughed at
me, but it has happened.
But the other thing we also start to
look for is, even if you see little ticks
up in the unemployment, the number
going up, if it is not because of the fall-
ing available jobs but because those re-
entering are choosing to enter the
labor force, that is really powerful be-
cause that labor force participation
number has a sense of the productivity
of our society.
We have already seen some pretty
impressive productivity step-ups. We
have actually seen a constant wage
gain, particularly for our brothers and
sisters who were at, the technical
term, the lower quartiles, which I al-
ways thought would bring joy across
the body.
But it almost now seems this body is
incapable of embracing good, opti-
mistic, joyous numbers of how many of
our brothers and sisters out there who
had a pretty crappy previous decade
are actually doing well now. There
should be optimism about this. There
should be joy about this, but would
that be giving one party kudos against
the other?
How about for a moment you just
drop the party labels and understand
the math? There are pretty impressive
numbers coming out of this economy
right now. What do we do as policy-
makers to keep it going as long as pos-
sible?
So let’s go back to that other leg.
How many of our brothers and sisters
are actually in the labor force? I can
show you some papers from just a few
years ago that, as the baby boomers
are starting to move into retirement,
labor force participation numbers were
supposed to collapse, and you actually
see a little bit of that. If you look at
the 10-year labor force participation
and then overlay our demographics as
we are getting older as a society, you
see those numbers fall.
But take a look at this chart, and
this is just the last couple years. We
are back up kissing up against a 63 per-
cent labor force participation. I know
this is geeky, but I can show you pa-
pers from a few years ago. It said we
were never getting back close to this
number again, at least not for decades
and decades and decades. Well, we are
there.
This is really important to the eco-
nomic vitality of the society. And it is
not just tax revenues. When you have a
population that is working, you have
more of your Americans who are re-
ceiving employer-based healthcare.
They are not receiving certain social
welfare benefits. They may not be pros-
pering as you might turn on television
and look at the dreams of people who
win lotteries, but there are things
working.
You can drive through some of the
neighborhoods in parts of my district
and you just look around at the num-
ber of people who are remodeling their
homes or putting a new roof on. There
are good things happening out there in
society, and you see it in the data.
So why do I come to the microphone
almost every week with this sort of
chagrined look, terrified we are not
having the difficult conversation of
what do we do to deal with the reality
of the promises we as a society have
made to our seniors, that retirement
security, to keep those promises?
Well, let’s actually walk through
some of the really difficult math, be-
cause this is what drives that $100 tril-
lion, and that is inflation-adjusted dol-
lars, $100 trillion shortfall that comes
from Social Security and Medicare in
the next 30 years. This board right here
is the number one driver.
If you need to understand something,
just understand this board. This is ba-
sically someone who moves into retire-
ment today, they will have paid about
$161,000 in Medicare taxes. That is a lot
of money. But that senior who has paid
in $161,000 in Medicare taxes, they will
be taking out, and this is the average,
$498,000.
So take that differential, multiply it
times 74 million baby boomers, and
that is the math. That is substantially
the driver of a completely
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.141 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5993
July 17, 2019
unsustainable math that blows up ev-
erything in our lives. Yet we are terri-
fied to talk about this. We all know it.
We all walk around with these reports
here, though I wonder how many peo-
ple ever open them up and read them.
But that is the math.
We can manage this, but we have to
do it with a level of creativity and un-
derstanding that it is not one solution;
it is dozens of policies coming together
to make it work. So let’s see what that
shortfall actually does.
This board now is maybe a year out
of date, so I need some updating on it,
but it functionally shows the shortfall
in Social Security. Total Social Secu-
rity shortfall over the 30 years is about
$31 trillion.
What you see in the blue is interest.
What you see in the purple is just what
we call the cash balance shortfall. But
the real difficulty, the honest dif-
ficulty is Medicare.
Medicare produces about a $72 tril-
lion cash shortfall over the next 30
years, where, if you look at the last
bar, it is actually green. It is in the
positive. The rest of the budget is posi-
tive.
This isn’t Republican or Democrat
math. It is just demographics. It is
what we are as a society. But yet we
will weaponize this.
So if the Democrats do certain
things, we are going to attack them on
it. If we do certain things, they are
going to attack us. Yet this is the fra-
gility of our society, and it is almost
impossible around here to talk about
because there is folklore around here.
I can’t tell you how many public
events I have done over the years
where you will get someone to come up
to you and say, ‘‘Hey, if you just take
care of waste and fraud,’’ ‘‘if you just
take care of this,’’ ‘‘if you take care of
that’’; anyone who says that today,
particularly if they are an elected
Member of Congress and they come be-
hind a microphone and say, ‘‘If I take
care of waste and fraud, that deals with
the debt and deficits that are coming,’’
they are not telling you the truth.
That is not what the calculator says. It
is a rounding error. But that is not
part of our political folklore in this
culture.
So back to analyzing these numbers.
Projected 2049 deficit, solely Social
Security and Medicare. If you actually
see the dedicated revenues, this one is
purely on GDP, the percentage of the
GDP in 30 years that is going to have
to be dedicated just to covering Social
Security and Medicare. We will be tak-
ing in about 5.8 percent of taxes equal
to GDP, that is dedicated to Social Se-
curity and Medicare, but we are going
to be spending 17.9.
Remember, if we are going to tell the
truth, for many of us, it is now a battle
to keep the ratio of our Nation’s debt
to the size of our economy from blow-
ing through that 100 percent. Can we
find a way to stabilize it in that 90, 95
percent area?
It is my goal, it is my dream to come
behind this microphone and say we
have balanced the budget, we are pay-
ing off the debt. But demographically,
that math is almost impossible.
So our job is to balance it, so, as we
are getting older as a society, we don’t
blow through that debt-to-GDP ratio
which all the sudden blows up our in-
terest costs, which consumes every
next incremental dollar.
And you start to see, when you look
at charts like this, it helps you under-
stand the growth and the amount of
our entire society’s economic produc-
tivity that is just going to go to cover
these promises. They are earned bene-
fits, but it is going to consume a huge
portion of our entire economy’s vital-
ity just to cover those benefits.
So my friends on the left will often
come and say, well, raise tax rates. Ex-
cept you have a classic problem. We ac-
tually have decades and decades and
decades and decades of data.
So you see the black line here? It is
when we have had very high marginal
tax rates. It is when we have had low
marginal tax rates. It is when we have
taxed capital gains aggressively, when
we haven’t taxed capital gains aggres-
sively. The reality of it is, or somehow
it may be a law of nature or maybe a
law of economics or a law of taxation,
taxes always fall back into a certain
range of the amount of GDP, the size of
the economy. And this has been under
liberal Congresses, conservative Con-
gresses, liberal Presidents, conserv-
ative Presidents.
If you look at that black line, it has
always fallen back into, sort of, a cer-
tain range of a percentage of the size of
our economy comes in as Federal
taxes: payroll taxes, the FICA we are
talking about, and income taxes over
here. It is just history. And there has
been all types of tax schemes at-
tempted.
So from a public policy standpoint,
adopt those policies that grow, that
grow the size of the economy, because
if you are always going to come back
and get a certain percentage of the size
of the economy, how do you get more
revenue? You grow the size of the econ-
omy.
Mr. Speaker, may I request the
amount of time remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Arizona has 7 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. I have come up
this year, this may be the two dozenth
time, walking through both the math,
the reality. Some of the times I am be-
hind the mike I am much more opti-
mistic because there is a technology
disruption, there is economic growth,
there are things happening around us
that give us a fighting chance.
But some nights I will sit down and I
sit here and highlight the different re-
ports, and I am terrified for my little
girl and what her future will be like be-
cause, right now, the math says her
marginal tax rates have to be more
than double what I pay today just to
maintain, just to keep the wheels on.
The economic growth crashes in our so-
ciety. The opportunity is taken away.
And then we have crazy around here
where we are getting proposals from
the majority that offer another $40 tril-
lion-plus of spending in the next 30
years.
Help us find our calculators. Help us
find some compassion, some soul that
we can make this society work. But
you can’t do it by living in a fantasy
world. The math is the math, and pre-
tending it isn’t dooms our future.
b 2100
I truly believe we are at a moment of
inflection where if we do the right
things, we actually could have a couple
of great decades ahead of us, my three-
and-a-half-year-old can have an amaz-
ing future, every other child can have
an amazing future, every retiree will
know they are secure.
But if we don’t take care of these
things, how do we deal with the other
wave that is coming at us: the multi-
employer pension crisis, the municipal
pension crisis, the State pension crisis,
the amount of our brothers and sisters
heading towards retirement that actu-
ally have almost no capital set aside
for their retirement other than that
Social Security and those medical ben-
efits that are Medicare?
If you love and care about people,
learn the math, tell the truth about it,
and work with those of us who are pas-
sionate on working to a solution, in-
stead of chasing the shiny object of the
daily chaos that is the House of Rep-
resentatives right now, on what gets
you the most clicks on your social
media, what might get you a television
hit tonight.
This is not particularly sexy, this is
not exciting, this is not what a lot of
our constituents want to hear, because
it is painful.
It is also the single most important
thing any elected Member of this Con-
gress can do, is fixing the greatest
threat to our society, and that is $100
trillion of promises over the next 30
years to our seniors that there is no
mathematical way to cover.
Let’s go do the right thing.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
THE THREAT COMING OUT OF
WASHINGTON TO WORK CENTERS
OR COMMUNITY REHABILITA-
TION PROGRAMS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) for 30 minutes.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to discuss the current threat
coming out of Washington to work cen-
ters or community rehabilitation pro-
grams.
So people understand, these are what
used to be referred to as sheltered
workshops.
People born with disabilities that
cause people to have different abilities
than most of the rest of us have, fre-
quently now they work in work cen-
ters, frequently packaging or other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.142 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5994 July 17, 2019
light manufacturing sort of jobs. They
sometimes make minimum wage, they
sometimes make less than minimum
wage.
If you have not toured one of these
facilities, you have really missed out
on one of the joys of life.
Here we find people working hard,
earning their own paycheck, proud to
go to work each day with friends and a
social network, sometimes working in
the same place for 20 or 25 years, who
feel very good about themselves, and,
quite frankly, should make the rest of
us ashamed if we are ever unhappy in
our own life, seeing people so happy
with the jobs they have.
However, friends of people with dif-
ferent abilities, be they family mem-
bers, be they guardians, be they just
next-door neighbors, have to wake up,
because there are small, powerful
forces who want to shut down these
work centers.
Why do they want to do so and how
are they going to do it?
They are going to do it two ways. To-
morrow, or soon, in this place, we are
going to take up what will be publicly
discussed as the increase the minimum
wage bill.
However, the increase the minimum
wage bill is going to do something
more than just that. It is going to get
rid of 14(c) waivers for minimum wage,
which allows people to work for less
than minimum wage.
This is not an oversight. We tried, in
something called the Rules Committee,
to amend the minimum wage bill.
There are people out there who feel it
is below people’s dignity to ever work
for less than minimum wage.
People familiar with the sheltered
workshops and the abilities of the peo-
ple there know that already there are
people who are not going to be able to
find employment at $7.50 an hour.
There is no way these folks are going
to find employment, or many of these
folks are going to find employment, at
$15 an hour.
What is going to happen when you
lose the ability to grant waivers and
have somebody make $3 or $4 or $5 an
hour? What happens when that dis-
appears?
People are no longer going to be able
to work in the community, they are no
longer going to be able to work at the
community rehabilitation centers.
These folks are going to wind up sit-
ting at home. They might wind up in
day services, but in day services, you
don’t get the pride of going to work.
You aren’t going to work every day
like your parents did or like your sib-
lings do or like your friends do. You
will no longer have the social network
that comes with every job, in which
you will be able to have the same
friends, which are so vital, because
family members, parents eventually
pass away. It is so important to have
this other social network.
It is so important to have the self-
satisfaction that comes with getting
your own paycheck, the self-satisfac-
tion that comes with buying your own
clothes, maybe buying gifts for rel-
atives, that people are going to lose if
there are no jobs at all.
The people who don’t like commu-
nity work centers are also on the at-
tack in the Department of Education.
And there, they want to remove the
ability for folks in this situation to
have competitive integrated employ-
ment. They feel we are isolating people
in these facilities.
First of all, I implore all of my col-
leagues and anybody who cares about
people born with different abilities, to
tour facilities like this. Folks in these
facilities are not segregated away in
some dark corner.
Like I said, if you meet them, they
are so happy and proud to show visitors
the work they are doing. They are
more happy than even the average cit-
izen in our society to get their own
paycheck and deposit it in a bank and
know that they are buying their own
clothes or buying things for other peo-
ple.
Everybody should see what we have
an opportunity to lose and everybody
should ponder what will happen when
these facilities are gone, because we
are in a situation in which employers
are not going to be able to afford to
spend $15 an hour for a lot of these
folks, just as right now employers are
not able to spend $7.50 for these folks.
What they will also find is many
folks like working in the work centers
and prefer working in the work centers
to other places in society.
Just as people with different abilities
perhaps prefer participating in Special
Olympics or prefer going to special
church services with people in similar
situations, folks like this frequently
prefer working with their friends in the
sheltered workshop. They feel very
good about the situation.
When these radicals succeed in clos-
ing the local work center, it is very dif-
ficult for folks like this. Even if you
were able to find another job in the
community with a work coach, you are
no longer working with your friends,
you no longer have the continuity of
perhaps working with the same people,
both in management and on the floor,
for 20 or 25 years.
If you get a job at a fast food res-
taurant, even if you are able to work a
few hours a week there, there is much
more turnover. And frequently people
do not like the stress that comes with
not working with other people in their
own situation.
It is time for the parents, the em-
ployees, just friends of people with dis-
abilities to stand up and tell Congress,
‘‘Do not be swayed by a loud minor-
ity.’’
It bothers me when bossy people in
Washington think they know what is
best for people around the country. It
bothers me when they feel that way
about anybody, but it especially both-
ers me when they feel that way about
the most vulnerable members of soci-
ety, because I am convinced there is a
loud majority of people, both the peo-
ple with disabilities and relatives of
people with disabilities, who just think
that the work centers are going to be
there forever.
The time has come to fight for the
work centers, because there is a radical
group who philosophically, apparently,
thinks that when the minimum wage is
$15 an hour, that jobs are going to
spring up for these folks, and that they
can shut down the work centers, and
that employers are going to say, Sure.
We can afford—whatever that is—$600 a
week to have someone like this work
for us.
Guess what? You are going to find al-
most no jobs. You may find a few em-
ployers, kind of as a charity type of
thing, will take people in for 3 or 4
hours a week, but that is not like hav-
ing a job for 30 or 40 hours a week like
everybody else in society has.
These folks do not want to feel dif-
ferent. They do not want to be dif-
ferent than everybody else. They want
to be like their siblings and their
friends and their parents and go to
work 30 or 35 hours in a week.
Just like the rest of us, they like to
socialize and have friends who have
worked in the same offices or the same
factories for years.
They do not want to be working 2 or
3 hours a week or not at all. They do
not want to be in a situation in which
they are stuck with a job coach.
Now, I happened to bring along some
testimonials that have floated onto my
desk as examples, from either people
who work in the work centers or par-
ents of people who work in the work
centers, and this is typical of what you
will find, whether you talk to the par-
ents or the employees.
Here is a story, Yael Kerzan’s story.
And I will just read bits of them.
‘‘Yael does not feel segregated at
Northwoods’’—which is the local com-
munity rehabilitation work center—
‘‘because it is a community to her. She
values socializing with her longtime
friends. The work she does at her CRP
helps her be more productive and ap-
propriate’’ at a job outside of the work
center. ‘‘In addition, Yael’s CRP pro-
vides a place for her to work when she
is not at her’’ independent job.
‘‘She does not want to stay home,
watch TV and do nothing. If she was
not working, she would be miserable.
In fact, Yael happily gets up every
morning at 4:30a so she has plenty of
time to be ready by 6:50a for her ride to
work.’’
Which, by the way, is typical. I think
folks like this have much more pride
with their job than a lot of people who
at least appear to be born with more.
‘‘Yael wants to work and feel valued.
She takes great pride in earning her
paychecks and contributing to the
household expenses. Yael does not care
if she earns minimum wage or not. She
feels she is compensated fairly by the
special wage she is paid. She under-
stands that she does not work as fast
as’’ some other folks, ‘‘and therefore is
paid according to her productivity.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.144 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5995
July 17, 2019
‘‘Yael would rather be paid the spe-
cial wage than participate in day serv-
ices’’, which amounts to babysitting,
whatever else they call it.
Next, another woman from Wis-
consin.
I want to voice my opinion of passing
the bill affecting 14(c).
‘‘I do not want to see sheltered work-
shops close. Workshops are a meaning-
ful way of life for many people born
with disabilities.
‘‘I am not against rehabilitation for
individuals that rehabilitation may
work for. But believe me, not all indi-
viduals born with disabilities are able
to work outside of sheltered employ-
ment.
‘‘My sister is one. She has been
through DVR, has been employed sev-
eral times, at several different jobs,
only to fail. All was well when the job
coach was present; not so when they
weren’t.
‘‘She was abused emotionally and
physically by employers. She got the
jobs no one else wanted or would do. I
could go on and on.’’
This woman, again, says her sister
would be incredibly damaged if they
got rid of the local sheltered workshop.
Another person, talking about his
daughter. ‘‘Save for 200 sight-words,
she remains illiterate, unable to read
or write at a level commensurate with
the rest of the adult world, unable to
discern character differences in others
(which has led to others taking unfair
advantage of her time and again), un-
able to grasp complex subject matter
or multipart instruction, unable to un-
derstand numbers, let alone grasp the
concept of arithmetic,’’ it makes it
very difficult for her to do normal
independent employment.
‘‘Thankfully, the only positive light
in her’’ life ‘‘has been the Black Hills
Works here in Rapid City, South Da-
kota . . .’’, here again, a community
support provider.
Another example of a person with dif-
ferent abilities, whose joy in life comes
from working at the work center. And
we have people who want to shut down
these work centers because they feel
the people are segregated there.
b 2115
And we have people who want to shut
down the work centers because they
feel, for some bizarre reason, that there
is no dignity in working for less than
$7.50 an hour, or soon to say there is no
dignity in working for less than $15 an
hour.
I realize this isn’t primarily what the
minimum wage bill is about. But,
again, I will emphasize, it is not acci-
dental that they are getting rid of the
right to work for less than minimum
wage. These people know exactly what
they are doing.
There were opportunities to amend
this bill in committee and opportuni-
ties to amend this bill in the Rules
Committee, and we will not have a
chance to make exceptions for these
people with different abilities on the
floor. There are radicals who believe it
should be against the law for them to
work for less than $15 an hour, which
means, as a practical matter, it will be
against the law for them to work.
And what it will do is it means they
will have to go back either to sitting at
home watching TV or going to work
centers, which is, like I said, tanta-
mount to babysitting. Maybe nice
babysitting. But they will know very
well they are no longer working like
normal productive people. They will
know very well that now they are just
being taken care of and babysat.
These adult people should have the
right to work. It is not up to these peo-
ple in Congress, or people in the De-
partment of Education, or the Depart-
ment of Labor to tell them it is against
the law to work for $5 an hour, particu-
larly given their situation.
Another testimonial:
‘‘My husband and I are parents of
identical twin sons, 35 years of age,
who have autism, schizophrenia, sei-
zure disorder, and they stutter.
‘‘They have received services from
Black Hills Works, a community sup-
port provider, in Rapid City, South Da-
kota, since the end of the fiscal year
when they reached their 21st birthday.
‘‘Because of this sheltered work envi-
ronment, they were able to learn basic
job skills, which have now enabled
them to obtain employment in the
competitive work realm.
‘‘Because of their autism and mental
health issues, it takes a long time and
a lot of patience to develop routines
that help them adjust to the rigors of a
workplace . . . ’’
They were only able to do this be-
cause of the 14(c) waivers, which allow
them to work for less than minimum
wage.
‘‘My son Jonathan is a delightful,
nonverbal, autistic 20-year-old man.
Powerfully built, he has a supercharged
energy and a deep well of affection for
loved ones and his iTunes library.
‘‘But Jonny is also profoundly intel-
lectually impaired. Accomplishing
even simple tasks requires vigorous
prompting and continuous oversight,
and chances are that along the way he
might bite, stand on, or even throw his
chair. As muscular and lovable though
he may be, his chances of landing a
competitive job are exactly zero.’’
But I am sure Jonathan, right now, is
proud of the job he has. I am sure, like
all the people I see when I tour my
workshops, they are so proud to show
me what they have accomplished, they
are so proud to talk about their pay-
check, and they are so proud to talk
about the new Packers jersey they
bought or whatever. You are taking
that right away from people by having
people in Washington, who think they
know better, say: No, Jonathan, just go
out in the community. Find your $15-
an-hour job.
Guess what? Jonathan ain’t going to
find a $15-an-hour job, and Jonathan is
going to lose the joy he has and the
satisfaction he has in the job he cur-
rently has.
I am Leslie and I am disabled. Eventually
I will be able to go in the community and
make minimum wage, maybe, although some
people may not be able to work out in the
community.
I think it would be sad if they do not have
the option to make less than minimum wage.
These folks look out for each other.
I started my first support employment pro-
gram in 1985 and strongly believe in the right
to access employment and to receive nec-
essary accommodations.
The use of 14(c) is a necessity. Many
people with significant disabilities can-
not successfully perform a job to indus-
try standards. 14(c) opens the door to
those who fit in this picture. It allows
the person to actually set his or her
own standard and to increase pay as
their performance improves. We need a
full range of services and to recognize
the reality of challenges many people
have and then to support their
strengths through 14(c) and other ac-
commodations.
I will also point out that people who
are asked to work in the community
may be able to work in the community
but don’t like it because of the stress it
puts on them to do a job that is very
difficult for them to do. A lot of times
what happens is some of these folks
find a job for maybe 4 or 5 hours a week
in the community and 30 hours a week
in the work center. Frequently, they
prefer their job in the work center be-
cause it is at a pace which they are
more comfortable handling. And they
are working with people who are the
same people they have worked with
over a period of years.
Another testimonial:
I like working here and I make less than
minimum wage. People should have the op-
tion to work at a company that pays less
than minimum wage or work in the commu-
nity and make minimum wage. I don’t want
to work in the community. I like coming
here and making friends also with my co-
workers and making money.
What these people are doing is they
are taking away the freedom from peo-
ple. I think it is so arrogant for people
who purport to be looking out for the
disabled people in our society to say, I
am taking away an option from you be-
cause I know best. Again and again you
meet people who are very happy in the
work centers and it is horrible to take
away that option.
I had a job about 10 years ago, but I got
very sick and I lost it. I am here making
boxes and palletizing and going to class and
stuff. I like to come to work and continue
making money every day.
I know I don’t make minimum wage. It is
okay I don’t make minimum wage. I am not
as fast as I used to be. I like my friends. I
love my job. I don’t like to stay at home. It
is boring.
I hope we don’t take away this guy’s
option.
I work in the community at Publix, but I
don’t get very many hours.
14(c) helps me supplement my hours so I
have something to do when I am not at the
grocery store and can still make some
money.
If the workshop went away, I would have
to find someplace else. I like coming here
and it gives me something to do and helps
my friend.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.145 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5996 July 17, 2019
Here, I am going to make a point. A
lot of these folks do find something in
the community for 4 or 5 hours a week.
Now, I am going to let people wonder
when somebody works only 4 or 5 hours
a week, particularly in this employ-
ment, why that is. Some of these lack-
of-common-sense advocates feel that if
somebody is able to find a job for 4
hours a week at the local grocery
store, they should be able to find a job
for 36 hours a week at the local grocery
store.
I will tell you, if you talk to the own-
ers of these places, which are very nice
people, frequently they are giving out
jobs kind of as a community service,
which is why these folks are only
working 4 to 6 hours a week at one of
these places. They are not going to be
able to get jobs for 35 or 36 hours a
week.
And when the sheltered workshop
closes, it is not going to be replaced
with a job in the community. It is
going to be hour after hour sitting at
home watching TV, or it is going to be
at day services, which amounts to
babysitting.
They are going to lose the satisfac-
tion and pride that comes with work,
and they are going to lose the inde-
pendence of getting their own pay-
check and not being as dependent on
government support.
I like getting a paycheck. I used to have a
job in the community, but I fell and couldn’t
keep up. I love working in the workshop
until I can get another job in the commu-
nity. If there was no workshop, I would just
color all day. I like having work to do.
Bingo. And there are people who
would be happy to just have day serv-
ices and have somebody color all day
and not have the satisfaction of having
a job.
I am a person with a disability who knows
that not everyone can work in a job in the
community. It takes hard work in being able
to follow directions. Sometimes bosses are
hard on you and want you to do more than
you can. It is not easy to have a job and fol-
low all the rules. I have friends who got fired
or quit because it is hard.
Why can’t people with disabilities have
choices?
Some people might say they want to
work, but when they do leave a shel-
tered workshop, they come back be-
cause it is hard out there in the work
world. Maybe there are some agencies
holding people back who really can
work, bagging groceries or doing jani-
torial work. But there are very good
agencies out there who are giving peo-
ple with significant disabilities an op-
portunity to earn money because they
can’t work in the community. Please,
please, please consider people with IDD
and low IQ and not make this work go
away.
I have many regular jobs, but I like my
program because it is not as stressful and
more understanding. Staff are easy to talk
to and you don’t have to worry if the place
will be staffed. Someone is there.
Regular jobs are a lot harder. Applications
are online, and that is not easy. Some people
are not understanding in a competitive job.
Communication is hard. They don’t under-
stand disabilities.
I don’t get minimum wage, but it is not
worth it. The more work I do, my pay goes
up. I am not forced to do anything I can’t do.
Breaks and hours are better than at another
job. I feel like I work more on a team than
I ever have. Other jobs don’t give you enough
time. I think my program is cool and gets
people ready for regular jobs, if they want
to.
Don’t take away 14(c). It would hurt me. I
get to be with my friends and make money,
too.
Again, this person is pointing out
that frequently people in these work
centers are working with people with
similar abilities, they enjoy being with
people with similar abilities, and it is
more stressful not being with people
with these abilities. So even if other
jobs are available, you are sometimes
hurting these people, and you should
not be telling them what they should
be doing.
I work at a 14(c) program. Programs like
mine perform a valuable service by offering
much-needed alternatives to workplace envi-
ronments that people with intellectual dis-
abilities may not be totally comfortable
with. The staff are much more tolerant and
understanding of the difficulties that people
with disabilities have versus staff at a CI en-
vironment.
Ever since I was a little kid, people such as
teachers and relatives have all tried to push
me to be as normal as possible, but with pro-
grams like this I can be myself.
I guess I will wrap it up. There are
other testimonials that I can read. I
will wrap it up by saying that the si-
lent majority has to speak up.
And I would strongly encourage my
colleagues to tour the local work cen-
ters. It will make them feel better to
see how these people are working. It
will make them feel better to see the
pride that these folks take in a job.
If they talk to them, they will tell
them how much they enjoy working in
the work center. And then they can ask
themselves, if this minimum wage bill
passes as is, if the new rules that are
proposed in the Department of Edu-
cation go forward, they will ask them-
selves, What will become of these
folks?
They should feel very guilty when
they charge ahead, not paying atten-
tion to what the most vulnerable mem-
bers of society will have happen to
them, because people in this institu-
tion, or bureaucrats a few buildings
away, have decided that they know
best what is for people other than
themselves and have decided against
all common sense that everybody in
our society is capable of making $15 an
hour.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. HUDSON (at the request of Mr.
MCCARTHY) for today on account of an
official visit to Fort Bragg with Vice
President MIKE PENCE.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 375. An act to improve efforts to identify
and reduce Governmentwide improper pay-
ments, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
N O T I C E
Incomplete record of House Proceedings. Except for concluding business which follows.
House Report 116–125 will be continued in Book II and Book III.
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 28 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, July 18, 2019, at 9 a.m.
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 736, the
Access to Congressionally Mandated
Reports Act, as amended, would have
no significant effect on direct spending
or revenues, and therefore, the budg-
etary effects of such bill are estimated
as zero.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1646. A letter from the Chief Counsel,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Suspension of Community Eligibility [Dock-
et ID: FEMA-2019-0003] [Internal Agency
Docket No.: FEMA-8583] received July 15,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17JY7.148 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5997
July 17, 2019
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Financial Services.
1647. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Removal of Transferred
OTS Regulations Regarding Lending and In-
vestment; and Conforming Amendments to
Other Regulation (RIN: 3064-AE22) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
1648. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
General Counsel for Regulatory Services, Of-
fice of the General Counsel, Department of
Education, transmitting the Department’s
Major final regulations — Program Integ-
rity: Gainful Employment [Docket ID: ED-
2018-OPE-0042] (RIN: 1840-AD31) received July
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
1649. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Policy and Management Staff, Food
and Drug Administration, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — New Animal
Drugs; Updating Tolerances for Residues of
New Animal Drugs in Food [Docket No.:
FDA-2012-N-1067] (RIN: 0910-AG17) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1650. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; ‘‘Other Flatfish’’ in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area [Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG491) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1651. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Yellowfin Sole for
Vessels Participating in the BSAI Trawl
Limited Access Fishery in the Bering Sea
and Aleutian Islands Management Area
[Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG472) received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1652. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Greater Than or Equal to 60
Feet Length Overall Using Pot Gear in the
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area [Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG477) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1653. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Less Than 60 Feet (18.3 Me-
ters) Length Overall Using Hook-and-Line or
Pot Gear in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Is-
lands Management Area [Docket No.:
170817779-8161-02] (RIN: 0648-XG467) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1654. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Non-
American Fisheries Act Crab Vessels Oper-
ating as Catcher Vessels Using Pot Gear in
the Western Regulatory Area of the Gulf of
Alaska [Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02] (RIN:
0648-XG672) received July 15, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
1655. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Less Than 50 Feet Length Overall Using
Hook-and-Line Gear in the Central Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska [Docket
No.: 170816769-8162-02] (RIN: 0648-XG470) re-
ceived July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1656. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Exchange of Flatfish
in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Man-
agement Area [Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG648) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1657. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; 2018
Commercial Accountability Measure and
Closure for South Atlantic Gray Triggerfish;
July Through December Season [Docket No.:
141107936-5399-02] (RIN: 0648-XG592) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1658. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; 2018
Commercial Accountability Measure and
Closure for South Atlantic Red Snapper
[Docket No.: 1710319998630-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG594) received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1659. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; Snapper-
Grouper Resources of the South Atlantic;
Vermilion Snapper Trip Limit Reduction
[Docket No.: 130312235-3658-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG569) received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1660. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Coastal Migratory Pelagic Resources of
the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Region; Re-
opening of the Commercial Sector for King
Mackerel in the Gulf of Mexico Western Zone
[Docket No.: 160426363-7275-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG595) received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1661. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Magnuson-Stevens Act Provisions;
Fisheries Off West Coast States; Pacific
Coast Groundfish Fishery; 2017-2018 Biennial
Specifications and Management Measures;
Inseason Adjustments [Docket No.: 160808696-
7010-02] (RIN: 0648-BI47) received July 15,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
1662. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Snapper-Grouper Fishery of the South At-
lantic; 2018 Commercial Closure for Hogfish
in the Florida Keys/East Florida Area of the
South Atlantic [Docket No.: 160906822-7547-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG618) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1663. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NFMS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Reef Fish Fishery of the Gulf
of Mexico; 2018 Commercial Accountability
Measure and Closure for Gulf of Mexico Gray
Triggerfish [Docket No.: 121004518-3398-01]
(RIN: 0648-XG524) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1664. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s final rule — Magnuson-Stevens Act
Provisions; Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Atlantic Herring Fishery; Ad-
justment to Atlantic Herring Specifications
and Sub-Annual Catch Limits for 2019 [Dock-
et No.: 181031994-9022-02] (RIN: 0648-XG608-X)
received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1665. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Authorization of Revised Re-
porting Requirements Due to Catastrophic
Conditions for Federal Seafood Dealers and
Individual Fishing Quota Dealers in Portions
of Florida [Docket Nos.: 090206140-91081-03
and 120405260-4258-02] (RIN: 0648-XG550) re-
ceived July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1666. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pa-
cific Cod in the Western Regulatory Area of
the Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.: 170816769-
8162-02] (RIN: 0648-XG676) received July 15,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
1667. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L17JY7.000 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5998 July 17, 2019
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Shortraker Rockfish in the Cen-
tral Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska
[Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG625) received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1668. A letter from the Acting Deputy Di-
rector, Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of the
Exclusive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific
Cod by Catcher/Processors Using Trawl Gear
in the Central Regulatory Area of the Gulf of
Alaska Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02] (RIN:
0648-XG639) received July 15, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
1669. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Atka Mackerel in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area [Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG427) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1670. A letter from the Acting Deputy Di-
rector, Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of the
Exclusive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific
Ocean Perch in the Bering Sea and Aleutian
Islands Management Area [Docket No.:
170817779-8161-02] (RIN: 0648-XG116) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1671. A letter from the Regulations Devel-
opment Coordinator, Office of Regulation
Policy and Management, Office of the Sec-
retary, Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Case Management Services Grant Program
(RIN: 2900-AQ15) received July 15, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. DAVID
P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. BOST, Mr.
DUNN, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
MEUSER, Mr. WATKINS, and Mr.
STEUBE):
H.R. 3788. A bill to prohibit the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs from making payments
to child care providers that employ individ-
uals charged with certain offenses, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Ms. DELBENE (for herself and Mr.
KATKO):
H.R. 3789. A bill to direct the Federal Com-
munications Commission to collect and
maintain data on the growth in the use of
Internet of Things devices and devices that
use 5G mobile networks in order to deter-
mine the amount of electromagnetic spec-
trum required to meet the demand created
by such use, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 3790. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for a credit
against tax for homebuyers purchasing resi-
dences in residential recovery zones, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Committee
on Financial Services, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MASSIE (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENAUER):
H.R. 3791. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to make modifications to the
passenger facility charge program adminis-
tered by the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 3792. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for deferment
for Federal loans prior to the beginning of
the repayment period; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 3793. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to include interest rate
provisions for Federal loans made on or after
July 1, 2020; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. LEVIN
of California, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Ms. DELBENE, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. GAETZ, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr.
SIMPSON, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. STEWART,
Mr. YOUNG, Mr. COOK, Mr. MARSHALL,
and Mr. GIANFORTE):
H.R. 3794. A bill to promote the develop-
ment of renewable energy on public lands,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources, and in addition to the
Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. BASS:
H.R. 3795. A bill to enable incarcerated per-
sons to petition a Federal court for a second
look at sentences longer than 10 years, where
the person is not a danger to the safety of
any person or the community, and has shown
they are ready for reentry, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BERA (for himself and Mr.
SMITH of Missouri):
H.R. 3796. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide that coverage
under Medicare is permissible for purposes of
contributions to health savings accounts; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. HARRIS, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. GRIF-
FITH, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, and Mrs.
DINGELL):
H.R. 3797. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to make marijuana acces-
sible for use by qualified marijuana research-
ers for medical purposes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 3798. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for limitations on co-
payments for contraception furnished by the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
LOFGREN, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. SERRANO,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SOTO, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. VARGAS,
Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. TLAIB,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Ms. NORTON, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK):
H.R. 3799. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to promote family
unity, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio (for him-
self, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. SIMPSON, and Mr. THOMP-
SON of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 3800. A bill to modify the Federal
TRIO programs; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for her-
self and Mr. YOUNG):
H.R. 3801. A bill to amend title 37, United
States Code, to establish a basic needs allow-
ance for low-income regular members of the
Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 3802. A bill to prohibit the award of
Federal Government contracts to inverted
domestic corporations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. DESAULNIER (for himself, Mr.
ZELDIN, and Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 3803. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude Federal Pell
Grants from gross income; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself, Ms.
HAALAND, and Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida):
H.R. 3804. A bill to amend chapter 2205 of
title 36, United States Code, to ensure pay
equity for amateur athletes, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 3805. A bill to reform prescription
drug pricing and reduce out-of-pocket costs
by ensuring consumers benefit from nego-
tiated rebates; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Ms. ESCOBAR):
H.R. 3806. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to limit the grounds of
deportability for certain relatives of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. NORTON, Ms. TLAIB,
and Mr. RUSH):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L17JY7.000 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5999
July 17, 2019
H.R. 3807. A bill to require that any trade
agreement eligible for expedited consider-
ation by Congress include enforceable labor
standards and protections, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr.
REED, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Ohio, Mr. RYAN, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Mr. MORELLE, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, and Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois):
H.R. 3808. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to include teacher prepara-
tion for computer science in elementary and
secondary education; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for him-
self, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. NORTON, Ms. TLAIB,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and
Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 3809. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to expand the eligibility of
students to participate in the supplemental
nutrition assistance program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture,
and in addition to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 3810. A bill to modify the penalties for
violations of the Telephone Consumer Pro-
tection Act of 1993; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself and Mr.
MCCAUL):
H.R. 3811. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Commerce to conduct a study and submit to
Congress a report on the processes of inter-
national standards-setting with respect to
internet-connected devices, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself and Mr.
WELCH):
H.R. 3812. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect
to approval of abbreviated new drug applica-
tions; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and
Mrs. RADEWAGEN):
H.R. 3813. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that certain health
care contractors of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs are subject to Federal tort
claims laws, to improve the accountability
of physicians of the Department, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself and
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana):
H.R. 3814. A bill to amend the Gulf of Mex-
ico Energy Security Act of 2006 and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Ms. LEE of California,
Mr. KHANNA, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. CRIST, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
COHEN, and Ms. PRESSLEY):
H.R. 3815. A bill to increase access to pre-
exposure prophylaxis to reduce the trans-
mission of HIV; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Oversight and Reform, Veterans’
Affairs, Ways and Means, Natural Resources,
Armed Services, and Financial Services, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SPANO (for himself, Mr. GAETZ,
Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. DUNCAN,
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr. NOR-
MAN, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
COLE, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
BARR, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, Mr. SCALISE, and Mr.
TAYLOR):
H.R. 3816. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide for the forfeiture of
Federal retirement benefits for Federal em-
ployees convicted of certain crimes relating
to the sexual abuse of children, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 3817. A bill to cancel the registration
of all uses of the pesticide paraquat, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 3818. A bill to require the Secretary of
Agriculture to allow infant food combina-
tions and dinners as WIC-eligible foods; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H. Res. 497. A resolution recommending
that the House of Representatives find Wil-
liam P. Barr, Attorney General of the United
States, and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Secretary of
Commerce, in contempt of Congress for re-
fusal to comply with subpoenas duly issued
by the Committee on Oversight and Reform;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. GREEN of Texas:
H. Res. 498. A resolution impeaching Don-
ald John Trump, President of the United
States, of high misdemeanors.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. CLAY, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Ms. DELAURO, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. EVANS, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LEVIN of California,
Mr. LEWIS, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. MENG, Ms. MOORE,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
PORTER, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. RUSH, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
TLAIB, Mr. TONKO, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK):
H. Res. 499. A resolution condemning the
Trump Administration’s systematic cruel
and inhumane treatment of migrants, par-
ticularly children, at the southern border; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DUFFY:
H. Res. 500. A resolution recognizing the
benefits of digitization of the mortgage proc-
ess; to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Mr. ENGEL,
Ms. ADAMS, Ms. BASS, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. CLYBURN, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Il-
linois, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS, Ms. FUDGE,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MOORE,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PAYNE, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. RUSH, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. WATERS, and
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN):
H. Res. 501. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives on Nel-
son Mandela International Day; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
108. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the General Assembly of the State of New
Jersey, relative to Assembly Resolution No.
237, urging Congress to pass and fund the fed-
eral ‘‘Excellence in Mental Health and Ad-
diction Treatment Expansion Act’’; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
109. Also, a memorial of the House of Rep-
resentatives of the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, relative to House Resolution No.
343, urging the Congress of the United States
to reauthorize and fully fund the September
11th Victim Compensation Fund; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
110. Also, a memorial of the Senate of the
State of New Jersey, relative to Senate Joint
Resolution No. 73, respectfully urging the
Congress of the United States to pass the
‘‘Military Hunger Prevention Act’’; jointly
to the Committees on Armed Services and
Agriculture.
111. Also, a memorial of the Senate of the
State of Rhode Island, relative to Senate
Resolution 19R403 (S1010), respectfully urg-
ing the United States Congress to adopt the
‘‘Unemployment Compensation for Federal
Employees Excepted from Furlough Pro-
gram’’; jointly to the Committees on Over-
sight and Reform, Education and Labor, and
Appropriations.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 3788.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 12 and 13, which
gives Congress the power ‘‘To raise and sup-
port Armies,’’ and ‘‘To provide and maintain
a Navy.’’
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 3789.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L17JY7.100 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H6000 July 17, 2019
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 3790.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, United States Con-
stitution: Congress shall have the power ‘‘to
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. MASSIE:
H.R. 3791.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the Constitution.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 3792.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Taxing & Spending Clause (Art. I, § 8,
cl. 1)
The Necessary & Proper Clause (Art. I, § 8,
cl. 18)
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 3793.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Taxing & Spending Clause (Art. I, § 8,
cl. 1)
The Necessary & Proper Clause (Art. I, § 8,
cl. 18)
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 3794.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2. (The Prop-
erty Clause.)
The Property Clause gives Congress the
power to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the terri-
tory or other property belonging to the
United States; and states that nothing in the
constitution shall be so construed as to prej-
udice any claims of the United States, or of
any particular state. The U.S. constitution
specifically addresses the relationship of the
federal government to land. The Property
Clause gives Congress plenary power and
full-authority over federal property. The
U.S. Supreme Court has described Congress’s
power to legislate under this Clause as
‘‘without limitation.’’ This Act falls square-
ly within the express constitutional power
set forth in the Property Clause as this bill
pertains to certain activities that occur on
federal lands.
By Ms. BASS:
H.R. 3795.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clauses 1 and 18 of the
Constitution of the United States.
By Mr. BERA:
H.R. 3796.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 3797.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 3798.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 3799.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section XIII of the Constitution:
The Congress shall have power to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to
pay the debts and provide for the common
defense and general welfare of the United
States;
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio:
H.R. 3800.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
H.R. 3801.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 3802.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 3 of the
United States Constitution
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 3803.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. FRANKEL:
H.R. 3804.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Commerce Clause. See U.S. CONST.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 3805.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 3806.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 3807.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, the power to regulate
Commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
Tribes
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 3808.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 3809.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 3810.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the constitution
gives Congress the power to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the
debts and provide for the common defence
and general welfare of the United States.
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 3811.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 3812.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 3813.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have the Power to lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay
the Debts and provide for the common
Defenseand general Welfare of the United
States’’ and Article I, Section 8, Clause 18:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.’’
By Mr. RICHMOND:
H.R. 3814.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is introduced pursuant to the
powers granted to Congress under the Gen-
eral Welfare Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 1), the
Commerce Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 3), and
the Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1 Sec.
8 Cl. 18).
Further, this statement of constitutional
authority is made for the sole purpose of
compliance with clause 7 of Rule XII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives and
shall have no bearing on judicial review of
the accompanying bill.
By Mr. SCHIFF:
H.R. 3815.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article I,
Section 8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. SPANO:
H.R. 3816.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 3817.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 3818.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 61: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 98: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 139: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 216: Mr. GUEST and Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 218: Mr. HURD of Texas and Mr.
MCCAUL.
H.R. 273: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 295: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 307: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 369: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 372: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 397: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. HOYER, Ms. WEXTON, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, and Ms. FRANKEL.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.029 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6001
July 17, 2019
H.R. 497: Mr. RUSH and Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 499: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 586: Mr. GUEST and Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama.
H.R. 587: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 647: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mrs. FLETCHER,
and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 712: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 724: Mr. RATCLIFFE and Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico.
H.R. 728: Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 737: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 763: Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 849: Mr. SERRANO and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD.
H.R. 865: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 913: Mr. CRENSHAW, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 943: Mr. CALVERT, Mr. KEATING, Mr.
WILLIAMS, Mr. TONKO, Mr. WATKINS, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. CRIST, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. LONG, Mr. CASTRO of Texas,
Mr. GARAMENDI, and Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 945: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 948: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 953: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1012: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1013: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1058: Mr. MARSHALL and Mr. BARR.
H.R. 1108: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 1109: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 1110: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1111: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 1120: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1135: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1153: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1154: Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
TRONE, and Ms. FUDGE.
H.R. 1174: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1223: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 1243: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. TED LIEU
of California.
H.R. 1266: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Ms.
WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1289: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 1309: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 1350: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 1374: Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. CONAWAY,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1398: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas, and Ms. FOXX of North Carolina.
H.R. 1406: Mr. FULCHER.
H.R. 1441: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 1450: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1511: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN and Mr.
KILDEE.
H.R. 1570: Mr. CORREA and Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 1605: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 1629: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1636: Mr. VARGAS and Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1641: Mr. BACON, Mr. TIPTON, Ms.
WATERS, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. BURGESS, Mr.
ROUZER, and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 1705: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1713: Mr. HASTINGS and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD.
H.R. 1730: Mr. GRIFFITH and Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1771: Mr. ZELDIN and Mr. GRAVES of
Georgia.
H.R. 1786: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 1792: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr.
WESTERMAN.
H.R. 1824: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1837: Ms. WILD, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr.
RICHMOND, Mr. JORDAN, and Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 1840: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. PAYNE,
and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 1850: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 1858: Mr. AMASH.
H.R. 1869: Mr. FLORES, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr.
CURTIS.
H.R. 1878: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. DELGADO, Mr.
BOST, and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1897: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 1903: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 1925: Mr. ENGEL, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Mr. TONKO, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. MORELLE,
and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1934: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1954: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1975: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1980: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Ms. SHERRILL,
Ms. SHALALA, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. STEVENS, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. KING of New York, Mr. YOUNG,
Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. ALLRED, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. VELA, and
Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1981: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia.
H.R. 2000: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2075: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2093: Mr. PETERS and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 2096: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2097: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 2148: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 2149: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2156: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2164: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2168: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 2178: Mr. CRIST and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2203: Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, and Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 2213: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Mr.
KATKO.
H.R. 2214: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 2218: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2219: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. CONNOLLY, and
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2222: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2225: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 2249: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 2256: Mr. BROWN of Maryland and Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 2264: Mr. SIRES and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2314: Mr. BUCSHON and Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2315: Mr. POCAN, Ms. LEE of California,
Mr. ENGEL, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 2328: Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 2336: Mrs. HARTZLER and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2343: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2377: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. RUP-
PERSBERGER.
H.R. 2382: Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr.
AGUILAR, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2420: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 2433: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2441: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. CASE, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2443: Mr. RATCLIFFE and Mr. GREEN of
Tennessee.
H.R. 2508: Mr. COHEN, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. AGUILAR, and Mr. ROGERS of
Kentucky.
H.R. 2513: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 2517: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2543: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 2571: Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.
H.R. 2577: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2591: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2733: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 2770: Mr. YARMUTH and Mr. PERL-
MUTTER.
H.R. 2805: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 2825: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 2847: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2896: Mr. COHEN and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2897: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 2912: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 2977: Mr. PERLMUTTER and Mr. CON-
NOLLY.
H.R. 2986: Mr. KENNEDY and Mr. GALLA-
GHER.
H.R. 2995: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 3019: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 3040: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3048: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3104: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. ESTES, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 3133: Mr. DESAULNIER and Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 3138: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3162: Ms. CRAIG and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3181: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3189: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3192: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 3222: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3246: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 3262: Mr. LIPINSKI and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 3267: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3295: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3299: Ms. NORTON, Ms. BASS, and Mr.
SCHIFF.
H.R. 3328: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO.
H.R. 3369: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 3375: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
KEATING, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. BEYER, Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
WRIGHT, and Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 3378: Mr. DEFAZIO and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3391: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 3402: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 3412: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 3414: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3463: Mr. RUSH, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
SCHRADER, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
LEWIS, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
CROW, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. ROSE of
New York, and Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 3473: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 3497: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 3501: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 3511: Ms. SHALALA and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 3525: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. EVANS, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. LEE
of California, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. FUDGE, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. RUSH, Mr. LEWIS,
and Mr. CLYBURN.
H.R. 3539: Mr. PETERS and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 3562: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3589: Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. CASE, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. ROBY,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms.
WATERS, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. ADAMS, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. CLY-
BURN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. NADLER, Ms. TLAIB,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Ms. STEVENS, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. WOMACK, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. JOYCE
of Ohio, and Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 3602: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3623: Mr. CISNEROS and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 3629: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3632: Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN.
H.R. 3633: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 3637: Ms. KELLY of Illinois and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 3655: Mr. GIBBS and Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 3660: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.036 H17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H6002 July 17, 2019
CISNEROS, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. VEASEY, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
TAKANO, Miss RICE of New York, and Mr.
FOSTER.
H.R. 3661: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 3663: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 3668: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. SHALALA, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3685: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3701: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3734: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 3739: Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 3742: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
AGUILAR, and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 3747: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3748: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 3749: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 3751: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 3759: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.J. Res. 20: Mr. WATKINS.
H.J. Res. 34: Mr. BUDD.
H.J. Res. 67: Ms. SHERRILL and Mr. PAS-
CRELL.
H. Res. 230: Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 246: Mr. MOULTON.
H. Res. 255: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H. Res. 310: Mr. HASTINGS.
H. Res. 326: Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
DEUTCH, and Mr. NADLER.
H. Res. 374: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. BISHOP of
Utah, Mr. GRIFFITH, and Mr. ESTES.
H. Res. 478: Mr. ROUZER and Mr. RUIZ.
H. Res. 485: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H. Res. 487: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, Ms. KAPTUR, and Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 490: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Mr. TED
LIEU of California.
H. Res. 495: Mr. WELCH, Ms. DEGETTE, and
Mr. DEFAZIO.
H. Res. 496: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY7.041 H17JYPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S4871
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 17, 2019 No. 120
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Mighty God, hear our prayers, search
our hearts, and know our thoughts.
Keep our lawmakers on Your path,
inspiring them to walk with integrity.
Hear and answer their prayers, saving
them with Your might. Lord, preserve
our Senators as the apple of Your eye,
ordering their steps and bringing them
to Your desired destination.
We love You, Lord, for You are our
strength.
And, Lord, we thank You for the life
and service of retired Supreme Court
Justice John Paul Stevens.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ANTI-COUNTERFEITING CONSUMER
EDUCATION AND AWARENESS
MONTH
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, in
honor of Anti-Counterfeiting Consumer
Education and Awareness Month, I
wish to highlight the problem of coun-
terfeits sold online.
Counterfeiters are increasingly turn-
ing to e-commerce to sell all of their
fakes. In the past, I have advocated for
increased education and awareness ef-
forts because I believe these efforts and
education are critical tools in our
country’s arsenal against counterfeits.
I encourage our Customs and Border
Protection to identify ways to increase
information sharing with their private
industry partners. This is one way we
can prevent the sale of fakes and keep
consumers safe.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
REMEMBERING JOHN PAUL
STEVENS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
first, this morning, the Senate recog-
nizes the death of a distinguished
American. We received word last night
that the remarkable life of former As-
sociate Justice John Paul Stevens had
come to a close at the age of 99.
Justice Stevens served for 34 years on
the Nation’s highest Court. You didn’t
have to agree with his constitutional
philosophy to admire his obvious intel-
ligence or the universal reports about
his kindness and collegiality or the
passionate patriotism he was proud to
wear on his sleeve. No question, this
was a quintessential public servant of
the ‘‘greatest generation.’’
A son of Chicago who enlisted in the
Navy the day before Pearl Harbor and
went on to earn a Bronze Star for his
work in cracking the coded messages of
Imperial Japan, there was just some-
thing about Justice Stevens that told
you this man lived life to the fullest.
At age 12, he was there to see Babe
Ruth’s ‘‘called shot’’ at Wrigley Field.
At age 99, just this year, he published a
memoir that was subtitled ‘‘Reflec-
tions on My First 94 Years.’’ In be-
tween, alongside his time on the Court,
he found time to weigh in on Shake-
speare scholarship on the side.
So the Senate joins the Nation in ap-
preciating this American life fully
lived, and our condolences are with the
Stevens family on this sad day.
f
NOMINATION OF MARK T. ESPER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yes-
terday, our colleagues on the Armed
Services Committee heard testimony
from Dr. Mark Esper, the Senate-con-
firmed Secretary of the Army and
President Trump’s nominee for Sec-
retary of Defense. They examined his
extensive record of military and public
service and discussed the variety of
challenges the next Secretary will face.
By the end, I believe anybody impartial
would have to have come away im-
pressed by Dr. Esper’s mastery, intel-
ligence, and thoroughness.
Of course, it is not exactly surprising
that a decorated combat veteran and
distinguished scholar would convey ex-
pertise and calm under pressure. For
those of us who knew him during his
service as national security adviser to
the former majority leader, Bill Frist,
those qualities are familiar.
You could hardly invent better quali-
fications for the top job at the Pen-
tagon than Mark Esper’s: a graduate of
West Point, advanced degrees from the
Harvard Kennedy School and George
Washington University, courageous
service with the 101st Airborne in the
Gulf war, service at the Defense De-
partment, a successful career in the
private sector.
Every step of the way, he earned re-
spect and admiration. That includes
high praise from DOD leaders of the
last administration, the Obama admin-
istration. They say that Dr. Esper
‘‘works hard, he’s smart, he’s dedi-
cated.’’ He has ‘‘all the qualifications.’’
Our colleagues at the hearing saw an
exceptionally well-qualified nominee.
In fact, as my friend the junior Senator
from Virginia has put it, they saw a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.000 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4872 July 17, 2019
man of ‘‘sound character and moral
courage.’’ He is a man of honor and in-
tegrity, dedicated to our Nation and
committed to the men and women who
serve in uniform, and I think it is clear
he deserves prompt confirmation. Even
more, the Pentagon and our Nation’s
security deserve a Senate-confirmed
Secretary of Defense to be in place and
on the job.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting his confirmation as soon as
it can reach the floor.
f
TREATIES
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, the
Senate is in the midst of considering
bilateral tax treaties with Spain, Swit-
zerland, Japan, and Luxembourg. If
yesterday’s overwhelming votes on the
first protocol are any indication, all
four will be ratified with huge bipar-
tisan margins by the end of the day,
and American businesses and workers
in all 50 States will be thrilled to fi-
nally be back on fair footing.
The details of these nuanced agree-
ments are complicated, but the core
principles are quite simple. Foreign
trade and international investment are
key cornerstones of the U.S. economy.
Major parts of proud American busi-
nesses and hundreds of thousands of
hard-working Americans’ jobs are ori-
ented around trade with these four na-
tions. So their governments and our
government sit down and negotiate
which country will tax which kind of
activities. The result is more clarity,
more certainty, and a lot less unfair
double taxation that has cost Amer-
ican businesses millions and millions
of dollars.
Let me say clearly that the years of
delays in getting these noncontrover-
sial treaties ratified have cost Amer-
ican businesses that employ American
workers millions and millions of dol-
lars. Inaction on this subject has need-
lessly—needlessly—put our firms that
employ all of our constituents at a
complete disadvantage and delayed
capital investments that could have
helped American workers.
Let me bring this home with some
numbers. I have mentioned one Ken-
tucky manufacturer that produces
more than one-third of all stainless
steel that America makes. They em-
ploy 1,500 people. I happen to know this
firm is contemplating a capital invest-
ment of more than $30 million that
would benefit Kentucky workers and
provide a shot in the arm for the local
economy. But there has been a wrinkle
because this one employer had to pay a
$15 million tax bill back in April be-
cause we hadn’t ratified the agreement
with Spain. And—listen to this—if the
delay had continued, an additional $35
million tax liability would have been
next—had we delayed. If the Senate
had not finally acted on this, this sin-
gle American manufacturer would have
owed $50 million in unnecessary or re-
dundant taxes, had we not acted.
For nearly 6 years, this manufacturer
has been laboring on an unfair playing
field that discouraged them from mak-
ing investments that could have ex-
panded operations and created more
jobs in Kentucky and elsewhere in
America.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the news story containing
their CEO’s statement on yesterday’s
ratification of the Spain treaty be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From Business Wire, July 16, 2019]
STATEMENT OF NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS
CEO CRIS FUENTES REGARDING THE PAS-
SAGE OF THE PROTOCOL AMENDING THE TAX
CONVENTION WITH SPAIN 94–2
GHENT, KY.—Today, the United States
Senate passed a tax protocol with Spain that
had been languishing for over five years,
causing unfair double taxation for American
companies with foreign investors. This has
cost companies like North American Stain-
less tens of millions of dollars over the
years; alleviation of the double taxation
could now allow for greater investment in
plants and workers.
NAS Chief Executive Officer Cristobal
Fuentes released the following statement
heralding news of the Spanish protocol’s pas-
sage:
‘‘This is a great day for North American
Stainless and so many U.S. companies with
foreign investors that had been subject to
unfair double taxation for many years. We
are located in Kentucky, and if it had not
been for Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell and his tireless efforts I firmly
believe this day would never have come. Sen-
ator McConnell stood up for his constituents
and helped many working people at our
Ghent, Kentucky plant by moving this pro-
tocol through the Senate. He listened to us
and put Kentucky first. Workers in all 50
states stand to benefit from Senator McCon-
nell’s efforts, and companies nationally have
him to thank for improving the American
business climate.
‘‘In addition to Senator McConnell, we are
grateful to Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee Chairman Jim Risch and the bipar-
tisan group of Senators on his committee
that moved this protocol forward. We are
also thankful that President Donald Trump
and U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin
and their staff members understood the vital
importance of this protocol and strongly en-
gaged to work with the Senate to achieve
this victory. It is now vital that President
Trump’s Administration move quickly to fi-
nalize and implement this protocol with the
Spanish Government so that affected compa-
nies can have fiscal certainty before year’s
end as it relates to tax payments. We are
confident that President Trump will move
quickly because this protocol falls squarely
within his America First agenda.
‘‘At a time when Chinese stainless steel
producers are engaged in unfair trade prac-
tices and market uncertainty exists, this
treaty victory gives a leg up to the American
workers who produce quality stainless slabs
in Ghent, Kentucky. Senator McConnell,
President Trump, Secretary Mnuchin and ev-
eryone who supported the protocol stood up
for workers all over America today, includ-
ing the ones right here in Kentucky. This
treaty will preserve and unlock large invest-
ments in our facility, and we look forward to
talking more about that in the near future.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Multiply this kind
of story by all of the other numerous,
significant Kentucky companies whom
these agreements affect; then multiply
by 50 States because U.S. businesses
from coast to coast interact with these
four nations; then consider how many
hundreds of thousands of workers all of
these companies employ. That is the
scale of what we are talking about—the
highest consequences.
I know job creators across the coun-
try are thrilled that the Senate is fi-
nally moving forward this week, and I
am certainly proud to have helped re-
solve this matter. But, curiously, it
seems that not all of our colleagues are
thrilled. Don’t get me wrong; the vote
totals on the floor have spoken vol-
umes. The cloture vote on the Spain
agreement was 94 to 1—just one Sen-
ator in opposition—and the treaty was
ratified yesterday 94 to 2.
Yet I was curious to hear one col-
league of ours come to the floor yester-
day and passionately argue against
what I have done as majority leader to
support these agreements. As the Mem-
ber himself stated, he has made ob-
structing these tax treaties a yearlong
personal project. The United States
and Spain agreed on this protocol back
in 2013. Spain ratified it in 2014. That is
when it also arrived here in the Senate.
For nearly 6 years, he has worked to
stall ratification. I know, because on
multiple occasions I sought unanimous
consent to secure Senate ratification of
this protocol. During that time, he has
tried and failed to persuade Treasury
Departments of two different adminis-
trations to insist on certain changes
that would have required reopening the
international negotiations. He tried
and failed to persuade his colleagues on
the Foreign Relations Committee that
his ideas were so necessary that we
should risk scuttling the treaties—
scuttling all of the treaties—over
them. He tried and failed to persuade
the whole Senate.
At every step, executive branch offi-
cials and Senate colleagues have tried
to engage his concerns in good faith.
But for 6 years in the case of the Spain
treaty, 8 years with respect to Switzer-
land, and 9 years with respect to Lux-
embourg, he was unable to persuade
anybody—over 9 years. In all of that
time, no one was persuaded, partly be-
cause the changes he demanded don’t
solve a real problem, partly because
they would have forced reopening the
treaties for even more negotiations,
and partly because everybody else was
actually listening to the job creators
who have been pleading with us for
years to get this millstone off their
necks. There were 9 years—9 years of
rejecting reasonable counteroffers and
accommodations, 9 years of working to
hold up these treaties and trying to
sell the Obama administration, the
Trump administration, and his Senate
colleagues on an off-the-wall story that
failed to persuade anyone.
Look, I am a patient man, but my pa-
tience is not inexhaustible. After unan-
imous consent was denied on multiple
occasions, I determined, after con-
sulting with the Treasury Secretary
and the Chairman of the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, that I would prepare
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.002 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4873
July 17, 2019
to file cloture on these tax protocols.
Yet even after this whole journey, our
colleague still was not blocked or shut
out of the process. He had his oppor-
tunity.
A few weeks ago, he had the oppor-
tunity to offer amendments to the pro-
tocols in committee. They failed on a
vote of 17 to 5. Last night, we put two
more of his amendments up for votes
on the floor; they went nowhere.
Nine years is long enough. In fact, it
is far too long—too long for our U.S.
businesses to have been either paying
needless double taxes or deferring huge
amounts of money in dividend pay-
ments that could otherwise have been
invested right here at home.
Year after year, money that could
have been immediately used to hire
Americans or make new investments
had to either be frozen up or handed
over in duplicate taxes—all in large
part because one of our colleagues
could not accept that one single Sen-
ator who hasn’t persuaded his fellow
Members is not entitled to singlehand-
edly rewrite international treaties. No
wonder all kinds of American employ-
ers came out of the woodwork yester-
day and urged the Senate to reject his
misguided amendments and waste no
more time in ratifying these treaties. I
don’t know why the Senator believes
he was close to a breakthrough after
his years of effort. Hope springs eter-
nal, I suppose.
Even if he had convinced the admin-
istration or his colleagues, the U.S.
Government would have had to reopen
the treaties for negotiation all over
again with the other party, which
would almost certainly have brought
about changes that they wanted. No
wonder President Trump’s Treasury
Department expressed opposition to
these amendments. Treasury told Sen-
ators yesterday that going back and in-
serting these changes could force a
years-long renegotiation of the treaties
themselves, jeopardize their ratifica-
tion, and have a significant adverse im-
pact on America’s standing among the
international community.
I am not quite sure what all these
years of heel-dragging will have accom-
plished—except impose unnecessary
taxes on Kentucky employers and de-
ferring investments in the United
States. I can’t see anything to show for
this crusade except hurting American
businesses for the better part of a dec-
ade, all to no effect. But I am glad we
can turn the page this week and get
these treaties on the books.
I haven’t been able to identify a con-
stituency for which he has advocated,
but I know my actual constituents in
Carroll County—real people in Ken-
tucky—are sure glad the Senate has
taken this important action.
It is the right thing to do for the
country. It is the right thing to do for
Kentucky workers and all the employ-
ers nationwide who have been waiting
and waiting for this unfair competitive
disadvantage to be removed. I am glad
that is exactly what we are doing this
week.
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 1327
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1327) to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
vision of rule XIV, I would object to
further proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
PROTOCOL AMENDING TAX CON-
VENTION WITH SWISS CONFED-
ERATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following treaty,
which the clerk state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Treaty Document No. 112–1, Protocol
Amending Tax Convention with Swiss Con-
federation.
Pending:
McConnell amendment No. 912, of a per-
fecting nature.
McConnell amendment No. 913 (to amend-
ment No. 912), to change the enactment date.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, after
years of economic stagnation during
the Obama administration, we are ex-
periencing an economic revival.
Thanks to Republican economic poli-
cies, the economy has taken off during
the Trump administration. Unemploy-
ment is near its lowest level in half a
century. June marked the 16th month
that unemployment has been at or
below 4 percent. For 15 straight
months—15 straight months—we have
had more job openings than Americans
looking for work. Right now, there are
roughly 1.6 million more job openings
than Americans looking for work. That
is the largest margin ever recorded.
June also marked the 11th straight
month that wage growth has been at or
above 3 percent. Before 2018, wage
growth had not hit 3 percent in nearly
a decade.
Importantly, the benefits of this eco-
nomic growth are being spread far and
wide. Ordinary Americans are seeing
bigger paychecks, more jobs, and more
opportunities. Over the past 3 years,
pay hikes for the lowest income work-
ers have grown the fastest. Huge num-
bers of new blue-collar jobs have been
created. Unemployment rates for mi-
norities have decreased substantially.
The unemployment rates for Asian
Americans, African Americans, and
Hispanic Americans are all at or near
record lows.
While our economy as a whole is
thriving, there is one segment of our
economy that is not fully enjoying the
economic growth we have been experi-
encing. While our Nation’s farmers and
ranchers have seen benefits from tax
reform, years of commodity and live-
stock prices that are below the cost of
production, protracted trade disputes,
and natural disasters mean our agricul-
tural economy is trailing behind the
economy as a whole.
I am privileged to represent South
Dakota farmers and ranchers in the
U.S. Senate, and addressing the needs
of these hard-working Americans is one
of my top priorities.
Recently, I was very pleased to be
able to help persuade the Department
of Agriculture to move the haying and
grazing date to September 1 for this
year for cover crops on prevent plant
acres. This will allow farmers and
ranchers in northern States like South
Dakota to sow cover crops without
worrying that they won’t be able to
harvest or graze them before winter
weather sets in.
Cover crops help farmers by improv-
ing soil health, which improves future
yields, and they can save farmers sig-
nificant money by serving as an impor-
tant source of feed. That second benefit
is particularly important for farmers
right now. Due to last year’s severe and
lengthy winter, feed supplies dis-
appeared, leaving no reserves. Corn-
stalks—a source of grazing and bed-
ding—will be in short supply this year,
and so will the supply of alfalfa due to
winterkill. Cover crops will be crucial
to alleviating this feed shortage.
If necessary, I will be encouraging
the Department of Agriculture to re-
lease Conservation Reserve Program
acres for emergency haying and graz-
ing this year to further address the
feed shortage.
The best source of information about
what farmers and ranchers need is the
farmers and ranchers themselves.
Right now, producers are telling me
that what they need more than any-
thing else is market access for their
products around the globe. Farmers
and ranchers depend on trade. Our Na-
tion’s farmers and ranchers don’t just
sell their products here at home; they
sell them around the world. In my
home State of South Dakota, we export
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.003 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4874 July 17, 2019
a substantial portion of the agricul-
tural products we produce. Right now,
though, farmers and ranchers are fac-
ing a lot of uncertainty when it comes
to trade.
While farmers appreciate the assist-
ance the administration has provided
to offset the lower commodity prices
resulting from current U.S. trade poli-
cies, they would prefer to receive a
check from selling their products in-
stead of from the government.
Farmers are deeply concerned that
their access to global markets, which
has already diminished, will continue
to erode, as U.S. agricultural products
continue to be replaced by those from
foreign competitors.
That is why passing the United
States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement
and wrapping up the other trade agree-
ments the U.S. is negotiating has to be
a priority. I have repeatedly relayed
this message to the President and key
members of his administration, and I
will continue to do so.
While I strongly support the adminis-
tration’s goal of strengthening market
access for our Nation’s farmers and
ranchers, the most urgent need right
now is to get farmers certainty about
what international markets are going
to look like. Agreements with China,
Japan, and the European Union all
need to be concluded quickly to end
current trade and market uncertain-
ties.
We need to pass the already nego-
tiated United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement as soon as humanly pos-
sible. This agreement will preserve and
expand market access for farmers and
ranchers in two of our Nation’s most
significant agricultural export mar-
kets—Canada and Mexico. Of particular
interest to the rapidly growing dairy
industry in South Dakota, USMCA will
expand market access for U.S. dairy
products in Canada. The U.S. Inter-
national Trade Commission estimates
that the agreement will boost U.S.
dairy exports by more than $277 mil-
lion. The agreement will also expand
market access for U.S. poultry and egg
producers, and it will make it easier
for American producers to export
wheat to Canada.
Senate Republicans are ready to pass
this agreement as soon as the Presi-
dent formally submits it to Congress.
We are just waiting for Democrats in
the House, who have still not indicated
they are ready to take up the agree-
ment despite the significant steps
taken to address their priorities. It is
high time for the Democrats in the
House to make it clear they are ready
to approve this agreement and allow
our Nation’s agricultural producers to
start seeing the benefits. I will con-
tinue to fight to get USMCA passed as
soon as possible.
I am honored to represent thousands
of farmers and ranchers in the Senate.
I am proud that Republican economic
policies have been lifting Americans
across the economic spectrum. I will
continue to work to get our Nation’s
agricultural economy going again so
that our Nation’s farmers and ranchers
can prosper and thrive.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
REMEMBERING JOHN PAUL STEVENS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
night, we received the news, the sad
news, that Justice John Paul Stevens
passed away at the age of 99. He was a
son of the ‘‘greatest generation,’’ a
code breaker in the U.S. Navy at Pearl
Harbor, a lifelong Chicago Cubs fan,
and a Shakespearean scholar. What a
combination.
John Paul Stevens was the third
longest serving Justice on the U.S. Su-
preme Court in the Nation’s history.
The length of his tenure meant the ju-
risprudence of Justice Stevens left a
mark on nearly every area of the law.
Just as remarkable as the length of his
tenure was its quality.
Justice John Paul Stevens was a
champion for civil rights, equality, and
accountability, who devoted his life to
the ideal of equal justice under the law.
He worked to constrain the use of the
death penalty, defend abortion rights,
articulate the bounds of Presidential
power—very needed today—and be-
lieved that unravelling the limits on
corporate campaign spending ‘‘threat-
ens to undermine the integrity of elect-
ed institutions across the nation.’’ He
was so right.
The fact that Leader MCCONNELL and
all our Republican friends lead the
charge in allowing so much corporate
money—money of the very wealthy—to
cascade into our system—well, Justice
Stevens is in Heaven reminding them
of what they are doing to faith in our
democratic institutions.
Stevens was at times an iconoclast.
He was willing to buck conventional
approaches and have his own views
evolve. One constant, however, was his
courtesy. During oral arguments, he
would begin with the preface: ‘‘May I
ask a question,’’ as if the counsel were
doing him a favor. Out of respect for
the respect he paid to everyone who
came before the Court, on his last day
on the Bench, lawyers and spectators
throughout the Supreme Court Cham-
ber wore his signature bow tie in his
honor, a more fitting tribute than any-
thing I could say on the Senate floor.
Justice Stevens was a great man, a
model jurist: wise, fair, compassionate,
and caring about the little guy and gal.
Our judiciary today needs more like
him. There are too many on the Su-
preme Court who are virtually the op-
posite of what Stevens stood for. He
will be sorely missed.
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. President, on a different subject,
it is certainly abhorrent that Leader
MCCONNELL has said we should move on
from the President’s comments this
weekend without him even pausing to
condemn them, but that is not the only
subject Leader MCCONNELL is stifling
debate on in this Chamber.
The size of Leader MCCONNELL’s leg-
islation graveyard grows with each ses-
sion. Leader MCCONNELL has stood in
the way of progress on a multitude of
issues: healthcare, in his legislative
graveyard; climate change, in his legis-
lative graveyard; voting rights, in his
legislative graveyard; gun safety, in his
legislation graveyard; and paycheck
fairness, in his legislative graveyard.
When Leader MCCONNELL refuses to
even debate these issues and allows
them to be amended, he hurts average
Americans. He hurts Americans of all
color and all creeds. He hurts Ameri-
cans, whether their families have been
in this country for 12 generations or
they are new immigrants, new Ameri-
cans, in this country.
There are so many issues: healthcare
costs going through the roof, drug
costs going through the roof, and
MCCONNELL doesn’t let us vote on
them—preexisting conditions and the
right to be protected if you have one.
So if your son or daughter has cancer,
the insurance company can’t say: ‘‘I
am cutting you off’’ and you watch
that child suffer and you can’t give
him or her the healthcare they need.
MCCONNELL says: ‘‘No debate, no
change.’’
In fact, so many Republicans are si-
lent on the lawsuit that President
Trump and 19 Republican attorneys
general filed that would get rid of pre-
existing conditions.
Climate change. We know what is
happening to our planet. Ask Senators
from anywhere on the coasts, anywhere
where we have had disasters, and talk
to our farmers in terms of tempera-
tures and predators, natural pests. The
world is changing, and we are doing
nothing about it. He will not let a sin-
gle bill on that. There is also voting
rights or people are being deprived of
gun safety, where thousands lose their
lives, and we could close loopholes that
90 percent of Americans support.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. President, there are so many
issues. Let me dwell on one of them,
healthcare, where Leader MCCONNELL’s
graveyard hurts every American: im-
migrant, nonimmigrant, Black, White,
Brown, every religion, and every creed.
Healthcare is the No. 1 issue in the
minds of most American families. Mil-
lions of families across the country are
still struggling with how to afford
healthcare and how to afford prescrip-
tion drugs, but at the moment, as I
have mentioned, the Trump adminis-
tration is actively supporting a lawsuit
that would dismantle the healthcare
protections we have today.
The consequences of the lawsuit are
mind-boggling: tens of millions—tens
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.005 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4875
July 17, 2019
of millions—would lose coverage and
see premiums rise. Up to 133 million
Americans—close to half of us—who
have preexisting conditions would see
their protections vanish. Yet Leader
MCCONNELL has not allowed this Cham-
ber to vote on whether the Senate can
intervene in that lawsuit, let alone on
any legislation that would improve our
healthcare system. Astonishingly,
many Republicans—many Senate Re-
publicans—are publicly rooting for the
Trump administration’s lawsuit to suc-
ceed, even if it means plunging our
country into a healthcare crisis.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. President, as I mentioned,
healthcare is far from the only subject
Leader MCCONNELL has prevented the
Senate from debating. Later today, my
friend from Hawaii Senator SCHATZ
will host the first hearing of the Sen-
ate Democrats’ special committee on
the climate crisis, bringing mayors
from across the country to talk about
how their cities are combating climate
change.
This Senate, because of Senator
MCCONNELL’s graveyard, will sit on its
hands and do nothing, but our cities
and States have no choice but to do
something. They are closer to the peo-
ple. They are doing stuff. We will hear
about it today.
Climate change is the greatest threat
to our planet, and Leader MCCONNELL
will not even let the Senate debate the
issue. This will go down in history
poorly for all of our Republican friends
who back that up, which is just about
everyone.
We had to form our own committee
because Republicans wouldn’t join a bi-
partisan committee to discuss this. In
his time as majority leader, Senator
MCCONNELL has brought forward ex-
actly one bill to address climate
change, and it was so his party and he
could vote against it—a sham, a ruse, a
trick, which flopped.
Many Republicans don’t support
every Democratic idea to address cli-
mate change. I understand that, but
Leader MCCONNELL has provided no
way for the Senate to even debate the
matter. How are we supposed to com-
promise or make progress if the Senate
leader refuses to allow us to debate any
legislation? How can America make
progress, even when the House moves
forward, when the Senate has become a
legislative graveyard for so many
issues?
On climate change, healthcare, and
so many other issues, Leader MCCON-
NELL’s legislative graveyard is stand-
ing in the way of progress for average
American families.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
that the 11 o’clock vote series start
now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the amendments to
the treaty are withdrawn.
The amendments (No. 912 and No. 913)
were withdrawn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution of rati-
fication.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the resolution of ratification as
follows:
Resolution of Advice and Consent of the
Protocol Amending the Convention between
the United States of America and the Swiss
Confederation for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income,
signed at Washington on October 2, 1996,
signed on September 23, 2009, at Washington,
as corrected by an exchange of notes effected
November 16, 2010 (the proposed Protocol)
(Treaty Doc. 112–1), and a related agreement
effected by an exchange of notes on Sep-
tember 23, 2009 (the related Agreement).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion of ratification.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET)
and the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) are necessarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 95
and nays 2, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 210 Ex.]
YEAS—95
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—2
Lee Paul
NOT VOTING—3
Bennet Harris Isakson
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). On this vote, the yeas are 95,
the nays are 2.
Two-thirds of the Senators having
voted in the affirmative, the resolution
of ratification is agreed to.
The resolution of ratification was
agreed to, as follows:
f
TREATIES APPROVED
PROTOCOL AMENDING TAX CONVENTION WITH
SWISS CONFEDERATION (TREATY DOC. 112–1
Resolved (two-thirds of the Senators present
concurring therein),
Section 1. Senate Advice and Consent Sub-
ject to a Declaration and Conditions.
The Senate advises and consents to the
ratification of the Protocol Amending the
Convention between the United States of
America and the Swiss Confederation for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect
to Taxes on Income, signed at Washington on
October 2, 1996, signed on September 23, 2009,
at Washington, as corrected by an exchange
of notes effected November 16, 2010 (the ‘‘pro-
posed Protocol’’) (Treaty Doc. 112–1), and a
related agreement effected by an exchange of
notes on September 23, 2009 (the ‘‘related
Agreement’’) subject to the declaration of
section 2 and the conditions in section 3.
Sec. 2. Declaration.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
declaration: The Protocol is self-executing.
Sec. 3. Conditions.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
conditions:
(1) Not later than 2 years after the Pro-
tocol enters into force and prior to the first
arbitration conducted pursuant to the bind-
ing arbitration mechanism provided for in
the Protocol, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall transmit to the Committee on Finance
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation the text of the rules of procedure appli-
cable to arbitration panels, including con-
flict of interest rules to be applied to mem-
bers of the arbitration panel.
(2)(A) Not later than 60 days after a deter-
mination has been reached by an arbitration
panel in the tenth arbitration proceeding
conducted pursuant to the Protocol or any of
the treaties described in subparagraph (B),
the Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare
and submit to the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation and the Committee on Finance of the
Senate, subject to laws relating to taxpayer
confidentiality, a detailed report regarding
the operation and application of the arbitra-
tion mechanism contained in the Protocol
and such treaties. The report shall include
the following information:
(i) For the Protocol and each such treaty,
the aggregate number of cases pending on
the respective dates of entry into force of the
Protocol and each treaty, including the fol-
lowing information:
(I) The number of such cases by treaty ar-
ticle or articles at issue.
(II) The number of such cases that have
been resolved by the competent authorities
through a mutual agreement as of the date
of the report.
(III) The number of such cases for which
arbitration proceedings have commenced as
of the date of the report.
(ii) A list of every case presented to the
competent authorities after the entry into
force of the Protocol and each such treaty,
including the following information regard-
ing each case:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.007 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4876 July 17, 2019
(I) The commencement date of the case for
purposes of determining when arbitration is
available.
(II) Whether the adjustment triggering the
case, if any, was made by the United States
or the relevant treaty partner.
(III) Which treaty the case relates to.
(IV) The treaty article or articles at issue
in the case.
(V) The date the case was resolved by the
competent authorities through a mutual
agreement, if so resolved.
(VI) The date on which an arbitration pro-
ceeding commenced, if an arbitration pro-
ceeding commenced.
(VII) The date on which a determination
was reached by the arbitration panel, if a de-
termination was reached, and an indication
as to whether the panel found in favor of the
United States or the relevant treaty partner.
(iii) With respect to each dispute sub-
mitted to arbitration and for which a deter-
mination was reached by the arbitration
panel pursuant to the Protocol or any such
treaty, the following information:
(I) In the case of a dispute submitted under
the Protocol, an indication as to whether the
presenter of the case to the competent au-
thority of a Contracting State submitted a
Position Paper for consideration by the arbi-
tration panel.
(II) An indication as to whether the deter-
mination of the arbitration panel was ac-
cepted by each concerned person.
(III) The amount of income, expense, or
taxation at issue in the case as determined
by reference to the filings that were suffi-
cient to set the commencement date of the
case for purposes of determining when arbi-
tration is available.
(IV) The proposed resolutions (income, ex-
pense, or taxation) submitted by each com-
petent authority to the arbitration panel.
(B) The treaties referred to in subpara-
graph (A) are—
(i) the 2006 Protocol Amending the Conven-
tion between the United States of America
and the Federal Republic of Germany for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Pre-
vention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to
Taxes on Income and Capital and to Certain
Other Taxes, done at Berlin June 1, 2006
(Treaty Doc. 109–20) (the ‘‘2006 German Pro-
tocol’’);
(ii) the Convention between the Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium
for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and
the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Re-
spect to Taxes on Income, and accompanying
protocol, done at Brussels July 9, 1970 (the
‘‘Belgium Convention’’) (Treaty Doc. 110–3);
(iii) the Protocol Amending the Conven-
tion between the United States of America
and Canada with Respect to Taxes on Income
and on Capital, signed at Washington Sep-
tember 26, 1980 (the ‘‘2007 Canada Protocol’’)
(Treaty Doc. 110–15); and
(iv) the Protocol Amending the Convention
between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of
the French Republic for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fis-
cal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
and Capital, signed at Paris August 31, 1994
(the ‘‘2009 France Protocol’’) (Treaty Doc.
111–4).
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall pre-
pare and submit the detailed report required
under paragraph (2) on March 1 of the year
following the year in which the first report
is submitted to the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation and the Committee on Finance of the
Senate, and on an annual basis thereafter for
a period of five years. In each such report,
disputes that were resolved, either by a mu-
tual agreement between the relevant com-
petent authorities or by a determination of
an arbitration panel, and noted as such in
prior reports may be omitted.
(4) The reporting requirements referred to
in paragraphs (2) and (3) supersede the re-
porting requirements contained in para-
graphs (2) and (3) of section 3 of the resolu-
tion of advice and consent to ratification of
the 2009 France Protocol, approved by the
Senate on December 3, 2009.
f
PROTOCOL AMENDING THE TAX
CONVENTION WITH JAPAN
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next treaty.
The bill clerk read as follows:
Treaty document No. 114–1, Protocol
Amending the Tax Convention with Japan.
Pending:
McConnell amendment No. 914, of a per-
fecting nature.
McConnell amendment No. 915 (to amend-
ment No. 914), to change the enactment date.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the amendments to
the treaty are withdrawn.
The amendments (No. 914 and No. 915)
were withdrawn.
The clerk will report the resolution
of ratification.
The bill clerk read as follows:
Resolution of Advice and Consent to Rati-
fication of the Protocol Amending the Con-
vention between the Government of the
United States of America and the Govern-
ment of Japan for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Eva-
sion with respect to Taxes on Income and a
related agreement entered into by an ex-
change of notes (together the ‘‘proposed Pro-
tocol’’), both signed on January 24, 2013, at
Washington, together with correcting notes
exchanged March 9 and March 29, 2013.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion of ratification.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET)
and the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 95,
nays 2, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 211 Ex.]
YEAS—95
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—2
Lee Paul
NOT VOTING—3
Bennet Harris Isakson
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). On this vote, the yeas are
95, the nays are 2.
Two-thirds of the Senators voting
having voted in the affirmative, the
resolution of ratification is agreed to.
The resolution of ratification was
agreed to as follows:
PROTOCOL AMENDING THE TAX CONVENTION
WITH JAPAN (TREATY DOC. 114–1)
Resolved (two-thirds of the Senators present
concurring therein),
Section 1. Senate Advice and Consent Sub-
ject to a Declaration and Conditions.
The Senate advises and consents to the
ratification of the Protocol Amending the
Convention between the Government of the
United States of America and the Govern-
ment of Japan for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Eva-
sion with respect to Taxes on Income, and a
related agreement entered into by an ex-
change of notes, both signed at Washington
January 24, 2013, as corrected by exchange of
notes on March 9 and 29, 2013 (the ‘‘Pro-
tocol’’) (Treaty Doc. 114–1), subject to the
declaration of section 2 and the conditions in
section 3.
Sec. 2. Declaration.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
declaration: The Protocol is self-executing.
Sec. 3. Conditions.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
conditions:
(1) Not later than 2 years after the Pro-
tocol enters into force and prior to the first
arbitration conducted pursuant to the bind-
ing arbitration mechanism provided for in
the Protocol, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall transmit to the Committee on Finance
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation the text of the rules of procedure appli-
cable to arbitration panels, including con-
flict of interest rules to be applied to mem-
bers of the arbitration panel.
(2)(A) Not later than 60 days after a deter-
mination has been reached by an arbitration
panel in the tenth arbitration proceeding
conducted pursuant to the Protocol or any of
the treaties described in subparagraph (B),
the Secretary of the Treasury shall prepare
and submit to the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation and the Committee on Finance of the
Senate, subject to laws relating to taxpayer
confidentiality, a detailed report regarding
the operation and application of the arbitra-
tion mechanism contained in the Protocol
and such treaties. The report shall include
the following information:
(i) For the Protocol and each such treaty,
the aggregate number of cases pending on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.005 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4877
July 17, 2019
the respective dates of entry into force of the
Protocol and each treaty, including the fol-
lowing information:
(I) The number of such cases by treaty ar-
ticle or articles at issue.
(II) The number of such cases that have
been resolved by the competent authorities
through a mutual agreement as of the date
of the report.
(III) The number of such cases for which
arbitration proceedings have commenced as
of the date of the report.
(ii) A list of every case presented to the
competent authorities after the entry into
force of the Protocol and each such treaty,
including the following information regard-
ing each case:
(I) The commencement date of the case for
purposes of determining when arbitration is
available.
(II) Whether the adjustment triggering the
case, if any, was made by the United States
or the relevant treaty partner.
(III) Which treaty the case relates to.
(IV) The treaty article or articles at issue
in the case.
(V) The date the case was resolved by the
competent authorities through a mutual
agreement, if so resolved.
(VI) The date on which an arbitration pro-
ceeding commenced, if an arbitration pro-
ceeding commenced.
(VII) The date on which a determination
was reached by the arbitration panel, if a de-
termination was reached, and an indication
as to whether the panel found in favor of the
United States or the relevant treaty partner.
(iii) With respect to each dispute sub-
mitted to arbitration and for which a deter-
mination was reached by the arbitration
panel pursuant to the Protocol or any such
treaty, the following information:
(I) In the case of a dispute submitted under
the Protocol, an indication as to whether the
presenter of the case to the competent au-
thority of a Contracting State submitted a
Position Paper for consideration by the arbi-
tration panel.
(II) An indication as to whether the deter-
mination of the arbitration panel was ac-
cepted by each concerned person.
(III) The amount of income, expense, or
taxation at issue in the case as determined
by reference to the filings that were suffi-
cient to set the commencement date of the
case for purposes of determining when arbi-
tration is available.
(IV) The proposed resolutions (income, ex-
pense, or taxation) submitted by each com-
petent authority to the arbitration panel.
(B) The treaties referred to in subpara-
graph (A) are——
(i) the 2006 Protocol Amending the Conven-
tion between the United States of America
and the Federal Republic of Germany for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Pre-
vention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to
Taxes on Income and Capital and to Certain
Other Taxes, done at Berlin June 1, 2006
(Treaty Doc. 109–20) (the ‘‘2006 German Pro-
tocol’’);
(ii) the Convention between the Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium
for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and
the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Re-
spect to Taxes on Income, and accompanying
protocol, done at Brussels July 9, 1970 (the
‘‘Belgium Convention’’) (Treaty Doc. 110–3);
(iii) the Protocol Amending the Conven-
tion between the United States of America
and Canada with Respect to Taxes on Income
and on Capital, signed at Washington Sep-
tember 26, 1980 (the ‘‘2007 Canada Protocol’’)
(Treaty Doc. 110–5); and
(iv) the Protocol Amending the Convention
between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of
the French Republic for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fis-
cal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
and Capital, signed at Paris August 31, 1994
(the ‘‘2009 France Protocol’’) (Treaty Doc.
111–4).
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall pre-
pare and submit the detailed report required
under paragraph (2) on March 1 of the year
following the year in which the first report
is submitted to the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation and the Committee on Finance of the
Senate, and on an annual basis thereafter for
a period of five years. In each such report,
disputes that were resolved, either by a mu-
tual agreement between the relevant com-
petent authorities or by a determination of
an arbitration panel, and noted as such in
prior reports may be omitted.
(4) The reporting requirements referred to
in paragraphs (2) and (3) supersede the re-
porting requirements contained in para-
graphs (2) and (3) of section 3 of the resolu-
tion of advice and consent to ratification of
the 2009 France Protocol, approved by the
Senate on December 3, 2009.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
SENATOR LEAHY’S 16,000TH VOTE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, the
Democratic leader and I just want to
take a few minutes here to point out to
everyone that our colleague, the senior
Senator from Vermont, just cast a
truly historic vote. Of course, these tax
treaties are significant, but I am talk-
ing about the fact that Senator LEAHY
just cast his 16,000th vote of his Senate
career. We know of no single statistic
that could begin to capture such a ten-
ure, but this figure comes close—16,000
votes cast for his constituents. With
numbers like that, Senator LEAHY has
already left towering figures like our
late colleagues Ted Stevens and Ted
Kennedy in the dust. Now he is gaining
on legends like Danny Inouye.
I think it is safe to say that all of
Senator LEAHY’s colleagues on both
sides of the aisle are reminded every
day why the good people of Vermont
made him the youngest U.S. Senator
ever from Vermont back in 1974 and
why they have rehired him over and
over. He must be a hard act to follow,
too, because, believe this or not, he is
still technically—technically—the only
Democrat Vermont has ever sent to the
Senate.
I know we all admire the Senator’s
passion and perseverance. I remember
him fondly from our time together as
chair and ranking member on the Ap-
propriations Subcommittee on State
and Foreign Operations. Foreign Ops
was one of my favorite committee as-
signments, and I am proud of the in-
vestments Senator LEAHY and I helped
make in support of democracy, good
governance, and human rights around
the world.
I think I speak for all of us when I
offer congratulations to our good
friend from Vermont on his historic
milestone.
(Applause.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I join
my colleague Senator MCCONNELL and
offer my congratulations and my
kudos—that is singular, as we learned
in our caucus lunch a few weeks ago—
to my dear friend from Vermont, Sen-
ator PAT LEAHY, on his 16,000th vote as
Senator. He is only the fourth person
to reach this milestone out of nearly
1,900 men and women who have served
in this Chamber. It is a great achieve-
ment and a great mark on history. So
many of his votes were so significant—
on healthcare, education, declaration
of war, international treaties, every
issue foreign and domestic. They cover
four decades, each vote in some small
way impacting the trajectory of our
great Nation.
Just a little perspective. Imagine
taking 16,000 pennies and stacking
them one on top of the other. They
would surpass the height of the Wash-
ington Monument. They would be more
than double the height of the Capitol
dome. It is a reminder that a multitude
of smaller actions and the accumula-
tion of smaller accomplishments over a
lifetime of quiet dedication can
amount to a great monument of
achievement.
Leader MCCONNELL noted that Sen-
ator LEAHY was the youngest Senator
ever elected from Vermont. He is still
just as young at heart, at dedication,
and at conviction as he was the day he
came to the Senate.
We welcome Senator LEAHY and
know that he will serve many, many
more happy, productive years in this
Chamber.
(Applause.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I wish
to join the chorus here. This is a big
day, as Senator MCCONNELL and Sen-
ator SCHUMER said, for our friend and
colleague PAT LEAHY.
PAT and I have been working to-
gether a long time; this is our fourth
decade. As we were told, he just cast
his 16,000th vote in the U.S. Senate. I
want to note that only three Senators
have ever hit that mark—Senator Rob-
ert Byrd, Senator Danny Inouye, and
Senator Strom Thurmond. And he is
still going. PAT still has some time on
his hands. This is an extraordinary
achievement, as we all know, here in
the Senate.
As I said, PAT and I have served to-
gether for more than three decades. As
Senators MCCONNELL and SCHUMER
said, he was first elected at the age of
34, making him one of the youngest
Senators here.
As we all know, last year we com-
pleted our work, working together, be-
fore the Fourth of July recess, on the
Appropriations Committee. We are
going to try to do it again this year,
working together. I just think, if we
work together, as we have before—PAT
and I have given and taken from each
other—it is good for the Senate.
I congratulate Senator LEAHY again
on this rare and remarkable achieve-
ment—16,000 votes. It is a first. He cur-
rently ranks first in seniority in the
Senate—first, folks, in seniority. He is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.004 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4878 July 17, 2019
our senior Senator. It has been nothing
short of a privilege to serve alongside
him. He is an excellent colleague, he
has been a class act. I have enjoyed
working with him and look forward to
a few more years in the future.
PAT.
(Applause.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I thank
the distinguished majority leader and
the distinguished Democratic leader—
both very close friends of mine whom I
have served with for so long. And my
dear, dear friend Senator SHELBY from
Alabama.
It is the friendships that mean the
most, both to me and to my wife
Marcelle. It is the friends we gather on
both sides of the aisle and the people I
have traveled with around the world.
One of my proud achievements was
the War Victims Fund, but it was Sen-
ator MITCH MCCONNELL who had it re-
named the ‘‘PATRICK J. LEAHY War Vic-
tims Fund.’’ I know that Senator SCHU-
MER helped guide me into committee
assignments that made the most sense
for Vermont and for my own career
and, I hope, for the Senate.
My first vote was for the Church
Committee. Frank Church wanted
oversight of our intelligence agencies,
and the Intelligence Committee came
out of that. The two leaders of the In-
telligence Committee now—Senator
BURR and Senator WARNER—do such a
great job with that.
As I was looking at the paper today,
I thought of the first Supreme Court
Justice I voted for, John Paul Stevens,
a wonderful man. I have voted on each
member of the Supreme Court since
then.
Going back through the 16,000 votes,
I am sure I could find some and think,
what the heck was I thinking when I
voted that way?
But I am proud to serve Vermont. I
am proud to be in this body. I am most-
ly proud to serve with all the Senators
who are here on both sides of the aisle.
Some of my closest friendships are
here.
I have served with three wonderful
Senators from Vermont. Senator Rob-
ert Stafford, who is no longer with us,
was the senior Senator from Vermont
when I came here. He was Mr. Repub-
lican in our State, and I wondered how
he was going to react to this young-
ster, this Democrat coming in. He and
his wife Ellen took Marcelle and me
under their wing and helped us on ev-
erything. He taught me how best to
form coalitions across the aisle. I will
never forget that.
I am not going to hold up my col-
leagues here. I will speak more about
this at another time.
But I was the first Vermonter to vote
to end the war in Vietnam, which we
ended by a one-vote margin at that
time in the Armed Services Com-
mittee. There were other votes that
were very close. There were bipartisan
votes.
It is a privilege to be in this body.
This body has been at times, and can
be and should be, the conscience of the
Nation. I urge my friends on both sides
of the aisle to continue to work to-
gether. We have worked together on
trips that many of us have taken. I will
close with mentioning just one trip to
give you an idea of that.
Senator Hubert Humphrey and Re-
publican Leader Hugh Scott were going
to go to Moscow. He said: PATRICK, you
and Marcelle are going to come to Mos-
cow.
I was 34 years old. I had just gotten
through a campaign that nobody had
contributed to. We were flat broke.
I blurted out: What is the airfare to
Moscow?
He said: No, we are going to take Jer-
ry’s plane.
I said: Jerry who?
He said: Jerry Ford. He is the Presi-
dent. Don’t you read the papers?
We had an equal number of Repub-
licans and Democrats on that trip, and
we formed lifelong friendships and
learned how to work together. I urge
Senators to continue doing that. And it
was better than flying commercial.
With that, Mr. President, I yield the
floor, and I thank my colleagues.
(Applause.)
f
PROTOCOL AMENDING TAX
CONVENTION WITH LUXEMBOURG
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next treaty.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Treaty document No. 111–8, Protocol
Amending Tax Convention with Luxem-
bourg.
Pending:
McConnell amendment No. 916, of a per-
fecting nature.
McConnell amendment No. 917 (to amend-
ment No. 916) to change the enactment date.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the amendments to
the treaty are withdrawn.
The amendments (No. 916 and No. 917)
were withdrawn.
The clerk will report the resolution
of ratification.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follow:
Resolution of Advice and Consent to Rati-
fication of the Protocol Amending the Con-
vention between the Government of the
United States of America and the Govern-
ment of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for
the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to
Taxes on Income and Capital, signed on May
20, 2009, at Luxembourg (the ‘‘proposed Pro-
tocol’’) and a related agreement effected by
the exchange of notes also signed on May 20,
2009.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion of ratification.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 93,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 212 Ex.]
YEAS—93
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Durbin Lee Paul
NOT VOTING—4
Bennet
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 93, the nays are 3.
Two-thirds of the Senators voting
having voted in the affirmative, the
resolution of ratification is agreed to.
The resolution of ratification was
agreed to as follows:
PROTOCOL AMENDING TAX CONVENTION WITH
LUXEMBOURG (TREATY DOC. 111–8)
Resolved (two-thirds of the Senators present
concurring therein),
Section 1. Senate Advice and Consent Sub-
ject to a Declaration.
The Senate advises and consents to the
ratification of the Protocol Amending the
Convention between the Government of the
United States of America and the Govern-
ment of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for
the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to
Taxes on Income and Capital, signed on May
20, 2009, at Luxembourg (the ‘‘Protocol’’) and
the related agreement effected by exchange
of notes on May 20, 2009 (Treaty Doc. 111–8),
subject to the declaration in section 2.
Sec. 2. Declaration.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
declaration: The Protocol is self-executing.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.019 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4879
July 17, 2019
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the following
nomination, which the clerk will re-
port.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Clifton L.
Corker, of Tennessee, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Tennessee.
The Senator from New York.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 1327
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that as in leg-
islative session, the Senate proceed to
Calendar No. 153, H.R. 1327; that the
bill be considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, reserving
the right to object, it has long been my
feeling that we need to address our
massive debt in this country. We have
a $22 trillion debt. We are adding debt
at about $1 trillion a year. Therefore,
any new spending that we are ap-
proaching, any new program that is
going to have the longevity of 70 or 80
years should be offset by cutting spend-
ing that is less valuable. At the very
least, we need to have this debate.
I will be offering up an amendment if
this bill should come to the floor, but
until then, I will object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
am deeply disappointed that my col-
league has just objected to the des-
perately needed and urgent bill for our
9/11 first responders—a bipartisan bill
that just earned over 400 votes in the
U.S. House of Representatives and that
has 73 cosponsors in this Chamber.
Enough of the political games. Our
9/11 first responders and the entire Na-
tion are watching to see if this body
actually cares. Do we care about the
men and women who answer the call of
duty?
When our country was attacked on
9/11/2001, the entire world looked on in
shock as many people rightfully sought
to get away as quickly as they could.
As those towers began to crumble,
there was one group of men and
women—our heroes, the bravest among
us—who ran the opposite way. They
ran toward danger. They raced up the
towers. They went into harm’s way to
answer the call of duty.
Then, in the days and weeks that fol-
lowed and the months and months that
followed, life slowly began to return to
normal for the rest of the country, but
at Ground Zero, nothing was normal.
The pile kept burning. It was smol-
dering. You could smell it blocks and
blocks away—10 blocks, 20 blocks, 30
blocks away. Men and women kept
going to that pile to do the very hard
work of, first, trying to find survivors
and then, of course, just trying to find
remains and doing all the hard work of
cleaning up. They dove in. They got to
work. They wanted to help our country
heal.
Now more than 18 years have actu-
ally passed, and thousands of those
men and women have actually died.
Thousands more are getting sick. They
are getting grueling, painful diseases,
like cancer, and they are now dying.
Why? Because they did the work at
Ground Zero that we asked them to do,
and it made them very sick—the air
they breathed, the smoke, the burning
metal, the crushed glass, the crushed
electronics, the toxins they breathed in
that the EPA told them was safe.
These heroes have since had to quit
their jobs and doing the jobs they love
and providing for the families they love
because they are too sick. They have
had to give up their income. They have
had to give up their dreams. They have
had to give up their future. They have
had to face the terrifying reality that
they are actually going to die because
of what they did on 9/11 and the months
thereafter.
If that wasn’t a great enough burden,
they had to use their most precious
commodity, time—time away from
their families, time away from their
friends, and time away from their chil-
dren, from their loved ones, and from
their community. To do what? To come
here. To come here to walk the Halls of
Congress, to go to office after office, to
ask that this body and this government
stand by them in their greatest time of
need, to ask for the basic compensation
that they have earned and deserve, to
ask for the healthcare that could actu-
ally keep them alive maybe another
year longer and not have to go through
bankruptcy, and to have to come here
week after week, spending thousands of
dollars of their own money, sacrificing
the time and energy that they have
left.
I have seen first responders in wheel-
chairs, attached to oxygen tanks,
spending their last moments here in
Congress just asking that we do the
right thing.
Almost a decade ago, 9 years after
the attacks, Congress finally listened.
We passed a healthcare and compensa-
tion fund for the people who got sick
because of 9/11, but that compensation
fund was only designed to last for 5
years. You know how this place works.
They wanted to make sure it worked
right. They wanted to make sure every
i was dotted and every t was crossed.
They wanted to make sure there could
be no fraud and no corruption. Well, of
course, there wasn’t. So it was limited.
These first responders—many of them
sick and some dying—had to come back
again and again and again to spend
more of their time walking these halls.
Eventually, we passed another com-
pensation bill, but, again, it was for an-
other 5 years. Even though thousands
of 9/11 first responders are sick and
even more will become sick, they still
had to come back, even though some of
these diseases are lifetime diseases and
more will die. And, now, sadly, the
fund is running out.
The 5 years aren’t over yet, and the
Federal Government is already having
to tell these families who have gotten
cancer and died since 9/11 that we have
actually run out of money for them,
that the compensation they have
earned and the need their families have
will be cut by up to 70 percent.
Once again, sick and dying first re-
sponders are being forced to come here
to knock on our office doors to remind
Members of Congress of what they did
on that day and the weeks and months
since, to tell them their personal sto-
ries of how painful it is to lose every-
thing you love. First, it is your ability
to work, then your ability to play with
your kids, then your ability to eat, and
then your ability to breathe.
I believe we have a responsibility—a
sacred responsibility—so that anyone
in this Chamber who has any sense of
decency, compassion, or patriotism
would listen to our first responders and
give them what they need: a permanent
compensation program so that these
men and women will never have to
spend another moment in these hall-
ways again.
We could pass this bill right now,
but, instead, my colleague has ob-
jected, asking people to come back
over and over. Everyone loves to point
fingers in this place, but there is no-
where else to point that finger today
than this Chamber.
The House has already passed the bill
overwhelmingly 402 to 12. It is about as
bipartisan as it gets. Shame on those 12
Members who voted no.
The same bipartisan bill, the one I
just called on my colleagues to pass al-
ready, has 73 cosponsors—73. When was
the last time that happened?
I want to say how grateful I am to
my Republican colleague from Colo-
rado, Senator GARDNER, for leading
this bipartisan bill with me. In these
divided times, what other bill can you
imagine would have so much support
by both parties?
Enough is enough. We should pass
this bill today. We should have passed
this bill today, and I hope we can pass
this bill with no further delay.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first,
let me thank my colleague and friend,
the Senator from New York, for the
amazing work she has done to get this
bill to this point. She has worked long
and hard on this for years and years
and years with compassion, dedication,
intelligence, and persistence. The bill
wouldn’t be here today without her
hard work. I thank her for that.
I also want to thank—I know there
are police and firefighters in the Gal-
lery over here. I want to thank them
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.012 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4880 July 17, 2019
for coming. You are the people who got
this done. You are the people who made
this happen more than any of us and
more than anyone else. The heroes of
21st century America have names like
Zadroga and Pfeifer and Alvarez, for
whom this bill is named—three of the
thousands who rushed to the towers
bravely and lost their lives because of
their bravery and selflessness.
I say to my friend from Kentucky:
Throughout the history of America,
when our young men and women or
older men and women volunteered in
the armed services and risked their
lives for our freedom, we came back
and gave them healthcare, and we are
still working on making it better. Why
are these people any different? They,
too, risked their lives in a time of war
and were hurt by it—by diseases they
didn’t even know they could get. How
can we, for whatever reason, stop this
bill from moving forward?
We are going to have a defense bill on
the appropriations floor. We are not
going to offset it. It has pay raises for
our soldiers. It has new equipment. We
are not going to ask for an offset. Why
this bill—why is it different? It is not.
This fund needs to be fully funded.
I say to Leader MCCONNELL, the
House leadership, hardly people who
aren’t careful with the dollar—some-
times too careful—when KEVIN MCCAR-
THY and SCALISE, the Freedom Caucus
leader, MARK MEADOWS, all voted for it,
why are we holding this bill up? If we
put it on the floor today, we could pass
it, and it would be on the President’s
desk this week, and those brave people
here and the many more who came
would not have to come again. They
should not have to come again.
It is not that it will be a joyous day
when this bill passes. They are going to
have to return to nurturing their
brothers and sisters who are sick and
to worry if they might get sick from
all the gunk that was in the air that
poisoned their systems, their lungs,
their digestive systems, their kidneys,
and their livers.
The bottom line is very simple. You
can come up with 10,000 reasons not to
do something, but you shouldn’t come
up with any reason not to do some-
thing noble and right.
I urge my friend from Kentucky to
withdraw his objection. I urge Senator
MCCONNELL, the leader, to put it on the
floor now, and we can let these folks in
the Gallery and so many others do
what they need to do—help their fami-
lies, help their friends, and make sure
their health is given the best protec-
tion possible.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
thank Senator SCHUMER for being such
an extraordinary advocate for the men
and women who have served our Na-
tion. This bill would never have gotten
this far without his leadership, without
his dedication, and without his abso-
lute commitment to the men and
women in the Gallery, as well as the
men and women in all 50 States
throughout this country.
I thank Senator SCHUMER for never
giving up on this bill and for always
bringing it across the finish line when
we need his skills and his leadership
and his tenacity the most. I thank him,
for the record, for his undying commit-
ment to the men and women who serve
this Nation.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT WASTE
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
today is ‘‘Washington Waste Wednes-
day.’’ It is a new series I launched last
week to highlight all of the ways Wash-
ington wastes taxpayer dollars. Unfor-
tunately, there are a lot of ways.
My belief is that you, the American
taxpayer, can spend your money better
than Washington can. It is a novel con-
cept here in DC. The way Washington
spends your money is oftentimes an
embarrassment.
As Governor of Florida, my focus on
responsible spending meant more
money in the pockets of Florida fami-
lies and more funding available to pay
down State debt and invest in what
mattered most to our families. We paid
down $10 billion in State debt over my
8 years as Governor—nearly one-third
of total State debt. We cut taxes 100
times, giving more than $10 billion
back to Florida families and job cre-
ators. And we have record funding for
education, for the environment, and for
transportation.
But right now, our national debt is
impossible to fathom, much less sus-
tain. It is $22 trillion. Just let that
sink in for a minute. We are already $22
trillion in the hole, but that doesn’t
stop the far-left Democrats from pro-
posing more debt for this country.
Medicare for All, which I like to call
Medicare for None, would not only
throw 150 million people off the private
insurance they like, but it is projected
to cost as much as $32 trillion over a
decade. That is $32 trillion with a ‘‘t.’’
The problem with our healthcare sys-
tem is rising costs. It just costs too
much. Prescription drugs cost too
much. Hospital visits cost too much.
ObamaCare drove up the cost of
healthcare. That is obvious. Then the
government tried to hide that cost by
providing Federal subsidies to the tune
of $737 billion in 2019—$737 billion in
2019 and $1.3 trillion by 2029.
Instead of providing subsidies and
proposing more wasteful ideas, we
should be focused on bringing down the
cost of healthcare, which solves two
problems. First, it will result in more
people having healthcare coverage,
and, second, it would ensure that
health insurance results in actual
healthcare.
Reduce costs and you solve both of
these problems, but solving problems is
a novel concept in Washington. The
Democrats in Washington just want to
spend more money to solve every prob-
lem. On top of Medicare for All, the
Democrats want a Green New Deal.
The Green New Deal—I call it the
Green Job Killer—would cost as much
as $93 trillion. These two proposals
alone will cost more than $100 trillion.
To put that in perspective, that is
more than $300,000 for every man,
woman, and child in the United
States—$300,000. You wouldn’t run a
business like this, so why are Demo-
crats proposing to run a country this
way?
We are turning this Nation around.
Our economy is booming, and wages
are rising. We can’t go along with this
dangerous socialist playbook. Higher
taxes, more debt, and more regulation
will reverse our success and bankrupt
our country. These ideas are the
craziest examples of Washington waste
we have seen in a long time.
Thankfully, the American people will
not go along with socialism. We can
cut the waste and cut the spending, but
we have to be thoughtful. We have to
propose real solutions, just as we did in
Florida, to make Washington work for
all American families.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to once again
give the facts about the Democrats’
one-size-fits-all healthcare proposal,
the legislation that many Democrats
are referring to as Medicare for All.
My focus today is what is going to
happen to American patients if the
government takes full control of our
Nation’s healthcare system. I speak as
a doctor who practiced medicine for 24
years in Casper, WY. It is so inter-
esting, as a doctor, to take a look at
what is being proposed because I know
the specifics of the impacts on the lives
of patients, patients I have taken care
of as part of my training and part of
my practice in Wyoming, and as a doc-
tor, I have personally studied what is
happening to healthcare in other coun-
tries around the world.
You have no doubt heard about the
worsening crisis of care in England.
There are doctor shortages, and, of
course, there is rationing of care. Brit-
ish rationing has actually become the
focus of a recent article in the maga-
zine, The Economist. The article is en-
titled, ‘‘The front line of England’s
NHS is being reinvented.’’ It says, ‘‘A
shortage of family doctors leaves little
choice but to try something new.’’
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have this article printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.013 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4881
July 17, 2019
[From The Economist]
THE FRONT LINE OF ENGLAND’S NHS IS BEING
REINVENTED
A SHORTAGE OF FAMILY DOCTORS LEAVES
LITTLE CHOICE BUT TO TRY SOMETHING NEW
The National Health Service is free, so it is
also rationed. Family doctors, known as gen-
eral practitioners (GPs), act as the first port
of call for patients; friendly gatekeepers to
the rest of the service who refer people to
specialists only if needed. But in some parts
of the country, including St Austell on the
Cornish coast, access to the rationers is
itself now rationed. ‘‘You can’t book an ap-
pointment to see me here,’’ explains Stewart
Smith, a 39-year-old GP, one of a team in
charge of an innovative new medical centre.
‘‘You go on a list and then we triage you.’’
It is an approach that will soon be familiar
to more patients. Simon Stevens, chief exec-
utive of NHS England, has said that being a
GP is arguably the most important job in
the country. There is, however, a severe
shortage of them. According to the Nuffield
Trust, a think-tank, there are 58 GPs per
100,000 people, down from 66 in 2009—the first
sustained fall since the 1960s. Only half of pa-
tients say they almost always see their pre-
ferred doctor, down from 65% six years ago.
The average consultation lasts just nine
minutes, among the quickest in the rich
world.
Although the NHS hopes to train and re-
cruit new family doctors, the gap won’t be
plugged any time soon. A new five-year con-
tract to fund GP practices will eventually in-
clude £891m ($1.1bn) a year for 20,000 extra
clinical staff, such as pharmacists and
physiotherapists, with the first cash for such
roles arriving on July 1st. To access the
money, practices will have to form networks
which, it is hoped, will help them take ad-
vantage of economies of scale and do more to
prevent illnesses rather than merely treating
them.
When the four practices serving St Austell
merged in 2015, it was an opportunity to re-
consider how they did things. The GPs kept
a diary, noting precisely what they got up to
during the day. It turned out that lots could
be done by others: administrators could take
care of some communication with hospitals,
physios could see people with bad backs and
psychiatric nurses those with anxiety. So
now they do. Only patients with the most
complicated or urgent problems make it to a
doctor. As a result, each GP is responsible
for 3,800 locals, compared with an average of
2,000 in the rest of Cornwall.
Although few practices have made changes
on the scale of St Austell Healthcare, across
England the number of clinical staff other
than GPs has grown by more than a third
since 2015. The logic behind the introduction
of these new roles is compelling, says Ben
Gershlick of the Health Foundation, another
think-tank. The NHS estimates that 30% of
GPs’ time is spent on musculoskeletal prob-
lems, for instance, which could often be han-
dled by a physiotherapist. Another estimate
suggests 11% of their day is taken up by pa-
perwork. Doctors complain that they are
overworked, and growing numbers retire
early. They are also expensive: the starting
salary for a GP is £57,655, whereas a physio
costs around half as much.
NHS leaders hope the new workers will
help practices play a more active role in
their community, linking up with services
provided by local authorities and charities.
Each network will be responsible for a popu-
lation of 30,000–50,000. The plan is that they
will use data analysis to intervene early to
prevent illness, and that practices will often
share the new staff with others in their net-
work.
Those that are further down the road sing
the benefits of the new approach. Caroline
Taylor of the Beechwood Medical Centre in
Halifax says that new roles quickly show
their worth. Her practice took in a ‘‘work
wellness adviser’’ employed by the council.
The adviser’s goal was to help ten people
over the age of so with poor mental health
back to work in a year—a task which she
completed in just six weeks. In St Austell
two pharmacists last year helped to cut
more than £140,000 from prescribing costs.
Far fewer staff now report that they are
burnt out.
Working in a team will nevertheless re-
quire a big shift in mindset for many doc-
tors, particularly those in surgeries that
have never before employed anyone else
aside from the odd nurse. One worry is that
practices will end up doing what they must
to get the extra funding, but little more.
There are also more practical problems.
Seven in ten GPs say their practices are too
cramped to provide new services, and it is
not clear where some of the extra staff will
be hired from.
Perhaps the biggest problem is that pa-
tients have grown used to having a doctor on
demand. Although those who no longer have
to queue for an appointment may be happy,
others might feel fobbed off if diverted to an-
other clinician. A study published last year
by Charlotte Paddison of the Nuffield Trust,
and colleagues, in the British Medical Journal
found that patients had less trust in the care
provided by a nurse if they initially expected
to see a doctor. Patients who have a close re-
lationship with their GP tend to be more sat-
isfied and enjoy better health outcomes than
others.
But other evidence suggests that, for some
conditions, nurses provide care that is as
good as or better than that provided by GPs.
The aim, says Nav Chana of the National As-
sociation of Primary Care, which helped de-
velop the new approach, is therefore to use
small teams of doctors and other clinical
staff to replicate the sort of relationship
with patients that used to be more common.
Just parachuting in ‘‘a lot of people who
look like doctors’’ will not raise standards,
he warns.
The shortage of GPs leaves the NHS with
little choice but to try something new. ‘‘A
lot of the world has either copied or is trying
to copy English primary care,’’ in particular
its openness to all and the continuity of care
that it provides, says Dr. Chana. Keeping
these strengths, while changing how primary
care works, is the task NHS officials are now
facing up to. Even if they succeed, it will
take time for the public to adjust. Having
explained the benefits of the new way of
doing things, one GP pauses, before adding:
‘‘I should say, though, patients don’t love
it.’’
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, the
story opens with a simple observation,
and this is the first sentence: ‘‘The na-
tional health service is free, so it is
also rationed.’’
That is what we are seeing, and that
is what people are living with every
day in Britain. Under the guise of
healthcare being free, they live in a
world where healthcare is rationed.
So how bad can that be? What would
this mean with this one-size-fits-all
Medicare for All, which the Democrats
are proposing?
The Economist writes that in Britain
today ‘‘[o]nly patients with the most
complicated or urgent problems make
it to a doctor.’’ Actually, today you
need a doctor’s referral to see a spe-
cialist in England. But now, in some
parts of the country, a British bureau-
crat must preapprove your visit to the
family doctor, who will then make the
referral to the specialist. I can’t imag-
ine people in our country tolerating
that. So, ironically, ‘‘access to the ra-
tioners is itself now rationed.’’ Accord-
ing to the article, ‘‘Only half of [Brit-
ish] patients say they almost always
get to see their preferred doctor.’’ So
only half get to see the doctor they
choose.
Remember that old line—‘‘If you like
your healthcare, you can keep it. If
you like your doctor, you can keep
your doctor.’’ In Britain, only half get
to see their doctor—if they get to see
them, if they get to go through the ra-
tioner, who is a bureaucrat.
What happens after you wade
through all of this, wade through the
morass of the bureaucrat and the fam-
ily doctor to get to the specialist?
What does the article say about when
you actually get to see a doctor? The
average consultation time, it says, is
only 9 minutes. It is 9 minutes on aver-
age. As a doctor, I can state that 9 min-
utes is one of the shortest consults I
have ever heard of. I cannot imagine 9
minutes—after waiting all of this time
to see the doctor, 9 minutes and then
you are done, and they are on to the
next patient, who has also been waiting
and waiting and waiting to see the doc-
tor.
What does this tell us about what
would happen in the United States to
patients trying to see doctors if we fol-
lowed this one-size-fits-all, govern-
ment-run healthcare program that
Senator SANDERS and so many of the
Democrats are supporting? If we adopt
a government-run, one-size-fits-all
healthcare system, which is what they
are proposing, I would tell Americans
to expect to pay more to wait longer
for worse care. That is what we would
see. To borrow the line from The Econ-
omist, bureaucrats will, as they say,
reinvent what healthcare means for
you.
You may have seen the stories about
the thousands of elderly patients right
now going blind in Britain—going
blind. Why are they going blind? Well,
because the British health service is
rationing eye surgery. The president of
the Royal College of Ophthalmologists
has said that the rationing is part of
the government’s cost-cutting in Eng-
land, and people are going blind as a re-
sult. Thousands of elderly patients are
desperately in need of eye surgery, but
the bureaucrats who must approve it
are denying the treatment. The num-
ber of denials has doubled in the last 2
years.
According to the Royal College of
Surgeons, a quarter of a million British
patients have been waiting more than 6
months for planned medical treatment.
That is happening in England today.
The waiting times are getting longer.
Now let’s look at Canada. According
to the New York Times, Senator BER-
NIE SANDERS likes the Canadian
healthcare system because he says it is
‘‘free.’’ Of course, Senator SANDERS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.009 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4882 July 17, 2019
knows it is anything but free. After all,
the healthcare proposal that Senator
SANDERS is proposing has a $32 trillion
price tag. The Senator admits the plan
hikes taxes on middle-class families.
He said it in the debate the other
night. The truth is, even doubling our
taxes couldn’t cover this huge cost. Yet
a majority of Democrats in the House
of Representatives—a majority—have
cosponsored what Senator SANDERS is
proposing. A majority of the Demo-
cratic Senators running for President
today have cosponsored Senator SAND-
ERS’ one-size-fits-all proposal. Appar-
ently Senator SANDERS approves of the
Canadian long wait times because he
says wait times are not a problem.
Well, maybe he should check with the
Canadians to see if wait times are a
problem, because patients in Canada
typically wait 3 months for treatments
and for certain treatments, much,
much longer. In some ways, the Cana-
dian healthcare system has been called
trick-or-treat medicine because if you
haven’t gotten your care by the end of
October, by Halloween, you will have
to wait until next year because they
will have run out of the money allotted
for that procedure or that healthcare
in that country in that year.
As a doctor practicing in Wyoming, I
have actually operated on people from
Canada who came to the United States
for care. It is free up in Canada, but
they couldn’t afford to wait for the free
care they were going to get in Canada,
so they came to the United States to
pay for the care here.
Still, that is what the Democrats are
proposing—a one-size-fits-all approach.
So people will pay more through their
taxes to wait longer for care that will
be worse care. Even the Congressional
Budget Office people who looked at
this in terms of funding, looked at
what it would cost to do a Senator
SANDERS’ style approach, said it would
be expensive, complicated, and the
delays would be not just in treatment
but also in technology.
Many Democratic candidates for
President have also endorsed—amaz-
ingly so—free healthcare for illegal im-
migrants. You saw the question being
asked on the debate stage. Every one of
the Democrats running for President
was standing there and was asked:
Which one of you would have in your
healthcare plan free health insurance,
free healthcare, for people in this coun-
try illegally? And every hand on the
stage went up.
When you take a look at what the
proposal actually is—this Medicare for
All, this one-size-fits-all approach—it
actually takes health insurance away
from 100 million people who get it
through work and gives it to illegal im-
migrants. So 180 million American citi-
zens will lose their on-the-job insur-
ance while illegal immigrants will get
it for free. That is the Democrats’
Medicare for All proposal.
The Congressional Research Service
recently reported that the Sanders bill
ends Medicare as well as on-the-job
health insurance, and what we will be
doing is entering into one expensive,
new, government-run system.
Still, the Democratic Senators who
are running for President and the 118
Democratic Members of the House sup-
port the Sanders’ legislation. They
have cosponsored it, saying: Let the
Washington, DC, bureaucrats call the
shots—unelected, unaccountable bu-
reaucrats calling the shots as they ra-
tion your care. They will micromanage
your care, and they will delay your
care, delay your treatment—treatment
that you urgently need. That is the dif-
ference. People will lose the freedom to
see their own doctor. We have seen
what has happened in England. Pa-
tients will wait months for treatment.
Keep in mind—care delayed is often
care denied, and if they finally get to
see a physician, the amount of time in
consultation will be incredibly short.
That is why what is being proposed by
the Democrats in this one-size-fits-all
approach—a British plan, a Canadian
plan—is completely unacceptable to
American citizens.
You don’t need Democrats’ phony
promises of free care; what you need is
to have the freedom to get the care you
want and need from a doctor whom you
choose at lower cost. That is why Re-
publicans are going to continue to
work on real reforms that improve pa-
tient care, that increase transparency,
that lower the cost of care, and that
lower the cost of what people pay out
of their own pockets, without adding
these incredibly longer wait times and
the loss of the ability to make choices
on your own. Why should we pay more
to wait longer for worse care, which is
what we are seeing with a one-size-fits-
all approach? Let’s make sure patients
can get the care they need from the
doctor they choose at lower costs.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I would
ask unanimous consent that Senators
ALEXANDER and MENENDEZ be allowed
to speak for 5 minutes each before the
vote scheduled at 2 p.m. today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ‘‘APOLLO 11’’
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, 50 years
ago, the world was transfixed by a
grainy, black-and-white image of Neil
Armstrong descending a ladder, pre-
paring to take humankind’s first steps
on the Moon. I was one of more than
half a billion people—the largest tele-
vision audience in history—glued to
the TV screen on that day. I was actu-
ally in high school, and, like so many
Texans at the time, I was totally en-
grossed in what was going on.
Staring at the television, it was hard
to imagine that hundreds of thousands
of miles away, two brave Americans
were sitting on the surface of the Moon
while their comrade remained in lunar
orbit up above. I didn’t quite under-
stand what this development would
mean for the future; I just remember
thinking at that moment how proud I
was to be an American. I looked up to
these three men, and I still do, and I
marvel at their courage, their intel-
ligence, and their patriotism, as well as
that of the tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans involved in getting them to the
Moon in the first place.
We now know that this lunar trio had
quite a sense of humor. Michael Collins
was once asked in an interview what he
was thinking about in the moments
leading up to the liftoff on July 16,
1969, and he joked, ‘‘I was thinking of
per diem, you know, how many dollars
per mile we’d be paid for this voyage.’’
Upon the astronauts’ return, we
learned that when Buzz Aldrin stepped
off the ladder, he told Armstrong he
was being careful not to lock the door
behind him. And when talking about
the fact that most of the photos from
the surface of the Moon were of Aldrin,
Neil Armstrong joked, ‘‘I have always
said that Buzz was the far more photo-
genic of the crew.’’
While the first lunar landing meant
many different things to people around
the world, there is one thing that was
abundantly clear: That date—July 20,
1969—established the United States as
the world leader in human space explo-
ration. It also put my hometown, the
place of my birth, Houston, on the map
as a hub for spaceflight innovation in
the United States.
We all remember the very first words
uttered by Neil Armstrong after land-
ing. He said, ‘‘Houston, Tranquility
Base here. The Eagle has landed.’’ Of
course, he was talking to the greatest
minds of the generation, who were
working at Johnson Space Center in
Houston, TX. The men and women at
Mission Control Center exercised full
control over Apollo 11, from the launch
at Kennedy Space Center, to landing on
the Moon, to the splashdown in the Pa-
cific Ocean.
For more than 50 years now, the
Johnson Space Center in Houston has
been at the heart of America’s space
program. The success marked the turn-
ing point in space exploration, and
folks across Texas are eager to cele-
brate this momentous anniversary.
You can do like I have and visit John-
son Space Center yourself and see
NASA’s Mission Control from Apollo.
It was redesigned to look exactly the
way it did in 1969, down to the retro
coffee cups and glass ashtrays. You can
watch the Houston Astros take on Oak-
land while wearing Apollo 11 caps.
Across the State, you can see special
movie screenings, space-themed menus,
and ‘‘ask an astronaut’’ events to edu-
cate our next generation of space trav-
elers.
To commemorate this historic mis-
sion in Washington, I introduced a bi-
partisan, bicameral resolution with my
colleagues Senator BROWN, Congress-
man BABIN, and Congresswoman HORN
last month. I thank my colleagues who
supported this effort and urge my fel-
low Senators to join me in passing it
this week. This resolution honors Apol-
lo 11’s three crew members—Buzz
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.016 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4883
July 17, 2019
Aldrin, Neil Armstrong, and Michael
Collins—whose bravery and skill made
this feat possible. In addition, it com-
mends the work of the brilliant men
and women who supported this mission
on Earth, including mathematicians
like Katherine Johnson and the astro-
nauts who lost their lives in previous
spaceflight missions.
To ensure that America remains the
leader in human spaceflight, this reso-
lution also supports the continued
leadership of the United States. With
this in mind, earlier this year, I intro-
duced a bill called Advancing Human
Spaceflight Act with Senator PETERS
from Michigan to provide greater cer-
tainty and stability for our space pro-
gram.
This legislation will extend the au-
thorization for the International Space
Station through 2030 and launch the
United States into a new era of space
exploration.
Our future astronauts need
spacesuits with advanced capabilities
beyond what current technology can
do, so this bill will also direct NASA to
develop the next-generation spacesuit
for future exploration to the Moon, to
Mars, and beyond.
In order to make this dream a re-
ality, this legislation will allow NASA
to partner with private space
innovators to ensure we have the best
and brightest working to achieve these
goals.
In addition, this bill will, for the first
time, codify human space settlement
as a national goal. I believe this legis-
lation will help set the stage to launch
the United States into a new era of
space exploration, and there is no bet-
ter time than this momentous anniver-
sary to recommit ourselves to Amer-
ican leadership in space.
In the year since that first ‘‘small
step,’’ we have watched goal after goal
being set and then met. From the Vi-
king 1 landing on Mars to the Voyager
Program exploring the outer planets,
to the International Space Station
making human space habitation a re-
ality, I have no doubt that the success
of the Apollo 11 mission made each of
these victories possible and paved the
way for the future.
For the 50th anniversary of the lunar
landing, today we honor the brave and
brilliant astronauts, physicists, engi-
neers, mathematicians, and scientists
of all kinds who made our Nation the
first to touch down on lunar soil. We
are grateful for their courage, their
sacrifices, and their immeasurable con-
tributions to our Nation’s space pro-
gram.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING JOHN PAUL STEVENS
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, yester-
day marked the passing of a giant in
American law. Justice John Paul Ste-
vens passed away at the age of 99. I just
bought his most recent book. The sub-
title of it is ‘‘My First 94 Years.’’
Justice Stevens was a favorite, born
and raised in the city of Chicago. He
was a lifelong Cubs fan. He was in the
crowd of Wrigley Field as a very young
man in 1932, on October 1, during a
World Series game, when Babe Ruth
made the famous called shot—hitting a
home run over the fence.
He attended the University of Chi-
cago and Northwestern School of Law.
Naturally, he graduated at the top of
his class. In between, he served as lieu-
tenant commander of the U.S. Navy
during World War II and was awarded
the Bronze Star.
After law school and a clerkship with
Supreme Court Justice Wiley Rutledge,
John Paul Stevens became an accom-
plished attorney in Chicago, leading to
his nomination to the Seventh Circuit
in 1970. In 1975, he was nominated to
the Supreme Court by President Gerald
Ford and confirmed by the Senate 98 to
0. Judge Stevens served on the Su-
preme Court for nearly 35 years, bring-
ing to the Court his midwestern blend
of brilliance, courtesy, and humility.
He leaves behind an enormous legacy.
He was committed to safeguarding the
rights and liberties protected by the
Constitution, and he cherished the im-
portance of the Judiciary as an ‘‘im-
partial guardian of the rule of law.’’
Those were his words in his famous
Bush v. Gore dissent, where he said
that judging of the Court as an ‘‘impar-
tial guardian of the rule of law’’ was at
stake in that majority opinion.
He was respectful at all times and re-
spected by his colleagues at all times,
and by litigants, and by the American
people.
When he retired in 2010, at the age of
90, he was the third longest tenured
Justice in the history of the Supreme
Court. He was the last living Justice to
have served in World War II.
I want to extend my sympathy to
Justice Stevens’ family, including his
surviving daughters, Elizabeth and
Susan, his 9 grandchildren and 13
great-grandchildren.
Today we bid farewell to a giant, and
we thank Justice Stevens for his dec-
ades of service to this country and for
his profound contribution to American
law.
OPIOID EPIDEMIC
Mr. President, years ago, there was a
Senator from Wisconsin named Wil-
liam Proxmire. He used to come to the
floor every month and give what he
called his ‘‘Golden Fleece Award’’ for
the worst example of Federal Govern-
ment waste. Earlier this year, I
launched a new series dedicated to that
tradition with floor speeches that built
off the Proxmire work, with a focus on
the most extreme cases of the pharma-
ceutical industry’s greed. It is known
as the Pharma Fleece Award.
I have highlighted price-gouging for
lifesaving insulin, the patent abuses
that extend monopoly control over
pricing of drugs, and the billions of dol-
lars’ worth of medications that are
thrown away each year deliberately
due to the production of oversized, un-
necessary drug vials.
This month, I want to focus on the
pharmaceutical industry’s role in an-
other national disgrace—the opioid epi-
demic. We are in the midst of the Na-
tion’s worst drug overdose epidemic in
our history. There is no town too
small, no suburb too wealthy to be
spared the suffering and the deaths
that have been wrought by this prob-
lem.
Last year, 2,062 people in my home
State of Illinois died from opioid over-
dose. There is culpability with nearly
all the stakeholders, including the U.S.
Government. There is no denying how
this epidemic was ignited. For years,
the pharmaceutical industry wildly
mischaracterized the risk of opioids,
falsely claiming they were less addict-
ive and less harmful; that these pain-
killers should be prescribed for com-
mon aches and pains, even when the in-
dustry itself had information proving
the dangers of such long-term use.
In 2007, the manufacturer of
OxyContin, Purdue Pharma, pleaded
guilty to a felony charge of mis-
branding the drug by misrepresenting
OxyContin’s risks. This resulted in a
modest fine as the company continued
to flood the Nation with their deadly
painkillers.
New reporting this morning from the
Washington Post found that Big
Pharma saturated the country with 76
billion oxycodone and hydrocodone
pills between 2006 and 2012. During a 6-
year period, 76 billion pills were pro-
duced by pharma. One subsidiary com-
pany, Mallinckrodt, put 28 billion
opioid pills on the market during this
time.
Downstate in Illinois is a small rural
county, Hardin County. It has fewer
than 10 doctors who can prescribe con-
trolled substances. The total popu-
lation of the county is 4,300 people. It
is one of the smallest, least populated
counties in my State. In the year 2010,
approximately 6 million hydrocodone
pills and 1 million oxycodone pills were
shipped to Hardin County and its sur-
rounding communities. For 4,300 peo-
ple, they shipped 7 million pills. All of
this data was actually captured and re-
ported to a Federal agency, the Drug
Enforcement Administration. They
will come up again in my presentation.
That means drug manufacturers knew
about this obscene volume of pills
being produced and sold; that drug dis-
tributors knew exactly where and how
this was being transported, and law en-
forcement had its eyes on it all along.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD the
list of the top opioid distributors and
manufacturers from 2006 to 2012.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:27 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.017 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4884 July 17, 2019
TOP PILL MANUFACTURERS, 2006 THROUGH 2012
Manufacturer Number of Pills
Percent of
Market
SpecGx (Mallinckrodt) ...................... 29 billion ................... 37.70
Actavis Pharma ................................ 26 billion .................... 34.50
Par Pharmaceutical (Endo) .............. 12 billion ................... 15.70
Purdue Pharma ................................ 2.5 billion ................... 3.30
Amneal Pharmaceuticals ................. 2.3 billion ................... 2.90
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA .............. 690 million ................. 0.90
KVK Tech .......................................... 580 million ................ 0.80
West-Ward Pharmaceuticals (Hikma) 380 million ................ 0.50
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals ............ 370 million ................. 0.50
Endo Pharmaceuticals ..................... 300 million ................. 0.40
Ethex Corporation ............................. 290 million ................ 0.40
AbbVie Inc. ....................................... 250 million ................ 0.30
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc. 240 million ................. 0.30
UCB, Inc. .......................................... 180 million ................. 0.20
Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ............ 140 million ................. 0.20
Cardinal Health ................................ 120 million ................. 0.20
Dispensing Solutions Inc. ................ 95 million .................. 0.10
Golden State Medical Supply, Inc. ... 85 million ................... 0.10
Aphena Pharma Solutions—Ten-
nessee, LLC.
74 million ................... 0.10
McKesson Corp. ................................ 65 million .................. 0.10
Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ...... 55 million ................... 0.1O
Forest Laboratories, Inc. .................. 47 million ................... 0.10
Bryant Ranch Prepack ..................... 37 million .................. 0.1O
Pfizer Laboratories Div Pfizer Inc. ... 31 million ................... 0.00
A–S Medication Solutions ................ 28 million ................... 0.00
TOP PILL DISTRIBUTORS, 2006 THROUGH 2012
Distributor Number of Pills
Percent of
Market
McKesson Corp. ................................ 14 billion ................... 18.40
Walgreens ......................................... 13 billion .................... 16.50
Cardinal Health ................................ 11 billion .................... 14.00
AmerisourceBergen ........................... 9.0 billion ................... 11.70
CVS ................................................... 5.9 billion ................... 7.70
Walmart ............................................ 5.3 billion ................... 6.90
Smith Drug Co. ................................ 1.3 billion ................... 1.80
Rite Aid ............................................ 1.3 billion ................... 1.70
Kroger ............................................... 1.2 billion ................... 1.60
H. D. Smith ...................................... 1.1 billion .................. 1.50
Anda, Inc .......................................... 1.1 billion ................... 1.50
Kaiser Permanente ........................... 880 million ................. 1.10
Morris & Dickson Co ........................ 880 million ................. 1.10
Thrifty Payless Inc ............................ 870 million ................. 1.10
Eckerd Corporation ........................... 780 million ................. 1.00
Omnicare Distribution Center LLC ... 700 million ................ 0.90
Kinray Inc ......................................... 630 million ................ 0.80
N C Mutual Wholesale Drug Co ....... 550 million ................. 0.70
Smith’s Food & Drug Ctr’s Inc. ....... 500 million ................ 0.70
The Harvard Drug Group .................. 410 million ................ 0.50
Advantage Logistics ......................... 380 million ................ 0.50
Value Drug Co .................................. 310 million ................ 0.40
Publix Super Markets, Inc. ............... 280 million ................. 0.40
River City Pharma ............................ 270 million ................ 0.40
SAJ Distributors ................................ 270 million ................ 0.40
HEB Grocery Company, LP ............... 240 million ................ 0.30
Harco ................................................ 210 million ................. 0.30
Valley Wholesale Drug Co ................ 210 million ................. 0.30
Associated Pharmacies Inc. ............. 190 million ................ 0.30
Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co .......... 190 million ................. 0.30
Qualitest Pharmaceuticals ............... 180 million ................ 0.20
Frank W Kerr Inc .............................. 170 million ................ 0.20
KeySource Medical ............................ 160 million ................ 0.20
Top Rx, Inc. ...................................... 160 million ................ 0.20
American Drug Stores ...................... 150 million ................. 0.20
American Sales Company ................ 140 million ................. 0.20
Longs Drug Store ............................. 130 million ................ 0.20
Quest Pharmaceuticals Inc. ............. 120 million ................ 0.20
Miami-Luken ..................................... 120 million ................. 0.10
Hy-Vee .............................................. 11O million ................ 0.10
Pharmacy Buying Association .......... 110 million ................ 0.10
Mc Queary Brothers .......................... 100 million ................. 0.10
Meijer Distribution Inc #90 .............. 100 million ................. 0.10
Rochester Drug Co-Operative Inc .... 100 million ................. 0.10
HBC Service Company ...................... 93 million ................... 0.10
Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. ................. 85 million ................... 0.10
Dakota Drug ..................................... 79 million .................. 0.10
Dik Drug Co ...................................... 78 million ................... 0.10
KPH Healthcare Services, Inc. .......... 76 million .................. 0.10
Albertsons LLC ................................. 74 million .................. 0.10
Aphena Pharma Solutions ................ 71 million ................... 0.10
Sunrise Wholesale, Inc ..................... 66 million ................... 0.10
P J C Distributor Co Inc ................... 65 million ................... 0.10
Wakefern Food Corporation .............. 65 million .................. 0.10
Auburn Pharmaceutical .................... 62 million ................... 0.10
Winn Dixie Logistics ......................... 58 million .................. 0.10
Southwood Pharmaceuticals Inc. ..... 57 million ................... 0.10
Discount Drug Mart .......................... 54 million .................. 0.10
Dispensing Solutions ........................ 52 million ................... 0.10
Prescription Supply Inc .................... 51 million .................. 0.10
Murfreesboro Pharmaceutical .......... 47 million .................. 0.10
Burlington Drug Company ................ 46 million .................. 0.10
NuCare Pharmaceuticals .................. 45 million ................... 0.10
DRx Pharmaceutical Consultants,
Inc.
40 million .................. 0.10
Bellco Drug Corp .............................. 39 million .................. 0.10
Bryant Ranch Prepack ..................... 37 million .................. 0.10
Schnucks Pharmacy Distribution Ctr 37 million ................... 0.10
Drogueria Betances .......................... 36 million .................. 0.10
Bloodworth Wholesale Drugs ............ 36 million ................... 0.10
Expert-Med ....................................... 35 million .................. 0.10
Mr. DURBIN. This opioid epidemic
wasn’t started by some runaway virus.
They were decisions made by real peo-
ple to flood America’s towns and
streets with ‘‘a blizzard of prescrip-
tions,’’ as Richard Sackler of Purdue
Pharma put it in his own words. In
fact, the pharmaceutical industry in
the United States produced 14 billion
opioid pills in 2016 alone—enough
opioid pills for every adult in America
to have a 3-week supply of opioids. Who
would approve the production of 14 bil-
lion opioid pills in 1 year, 2016? It
turned out it was your government.
The Drug Enforcement Administration
of the United States of America is re-
sponsible for determining and basically
giving a license for the production of a
specific amount of opioid pills allowed
to be distributed to the market each
year.
It is the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration—of all agencies—that estab-
lishes annual production quotas for
opioids that are, effectively, the gate-
keepers for pharma. Pharma, of course,
wants to produce as much as possible
in order to sell as much as possible.
The Drug Enforcement Administration
is supposed to draw the line. Yet, for
all of these years, while we have faced
this epidemic, our government—the
Drug Enforcement Administration—
has been increasing the production
quotas each year for opioid pills.
Between 1993 and 2015, the Drug En-
forcement Administration allowed the
production of oxycodone to increase in
America 39 times—from 31⁄2 tons of
opioids in 1993 to 151 tons of opioids in
2015. It is the same story for
hydrocodone, which increased twelve-
fold, and for fentanyl, which increased
twenty-fivefold.
I pressed those in the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration on this issue. I
asked them how they could possibly
approve of these ever-increasing quotas
while America faced this epidemic.
How did they reconcile their decision
to flood America with these drugs at a
time in which they were being abused
and when addiction was leading to
death all across our country?
Last year, I passed bipartisan legisla-
tion. I and Senator JOHN KENNEDY, a
Republican from Louisiana, gave those
at the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion more authority to set common-
sense production levels. It is hard to
believe we had to do that—to actually
bring to their attention that they were
authorizing the production of opioid
pills for an America that was facing
the worst opioid epidemic in its his-
tory.
Previously, those at the Drug En-
forcement Administration could only
look at what pharma asked for when it
determined quotas. In other words,
they believed, officially, that they had
statutory blinders by which they
couldn’t even consider the impact of
pharma’s annual request for produc-
tion. So Senator KENNEDY and I, on a
bipartisan basis, changed the law to re-
quire the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration to consider abuse, overdose
deaths, and the impact on public
health.
Finally, between 2016 and 2019, the
Drug Enforcement Administration has
lowered opioid quotas by an average of
46 percent. No longer can Big Pharma
get away with producing this sheer vol-
ume of painkillers. The Drug Enforce-
ment Administration will soon be pro-
posing its 2020 quotas, and I will soon
be sending it a letter and will urge it to
use its new authority, which we put in
this new law that I passed with Senator
KENNEDY, to continue reining in Big
Pharma’s insatiable demand.
Think about that. While we are going
through this opioid epidemic, pharma—
made up of the people who make the
pills—is coming to Washington, to the
Drug Enforcement Administration, and
is getting permission each year to
produce billions of opioid pills to be
sold in the United States—enough for
every adult American to have a 3-week
opioid prescription.
Incidentally, 2 years ago, the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention
sent out a notice to doctors. It read
that only in the most extraordinary
cases should one prescribe a drug to
last for more than 3 days—only in the
most extraordinary cases. Then watch
them carefully because, in a short pe-
riod of time, addiction begins. Three
days? Pharma was asking for a produc-
tion of opioid pills so that each adult
American could buy 3 weeks’ worth of
pills, and the Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration was complicit.
To hold all stakeholders accountable,
major legal challenges have been
brought against the pharmaceutical in-
dustry for its role in deceptive pro-
motion and all of the suffering and
deaths that have resulted. Over 1,600
lawsuits from States, counties, cities,
and victims have been consolidated
into one Federal case in Cleveland, OH.
This reminds me of another public
health scourge we confronted when
Americans suffered the consequences of
misleading marketing and false infor-
mation about the health risks of to-
bacco. It took the 1998 Tobacco Master
Settlement Agreement to finally hold
major manufacturers of tobacco re-
sponsible for their actions—that of
cigarettes that hook adults and youth
to lifetimes of addiction and death.
That settlement was estimated to
provide States with $246 billion over 25
years ago. Sadly, only a tiny fraction
of that amount—only 8 percent of the
settlement—was actually dedicated to
tobacco’s prevention and cessation. In-
stead, $145 billion from the tobacco set-
tlement has gone to fill State budgets
and pet projects—roads, bridges, sta-
diums, even a tobacco museum.
Should today’s opioid litigation re-
sult in large monetary settlements
from the pharmaceutical companies
and their distributors, it will be essen-
tial that this funding be dedicated to
legitimate public health efforts so as
to respond to the current epidemic and
prevent the next one.
In the city of Chicago, near an area
known as Greektown, there is a drug
rehab facility that I have visited many
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:11 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.008 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4885
July 17, 2019
times. It is called Haymarket. It was
started many years ago by a Catholic
priest who took on a ministry that no-
body else wanted. He was the one who
prowled every night along skid row and
helped those who were addicted to
drugs and alcohol turn their lives
around. He started this Haymarket
House as a refuge for them in an at-
tempt to get them some help in escap-
ing their addictions and being
rehabbed.
Can you imagine what it is like
today?
Today, sadly, he is gone, but they
continue the Haymarket House. Imag-
ine what they face in trying to deal
with a combination of addiction to
drugs and alcohol and mental illness on
top of it. They are dramatically under-
staffed. They don’t have the necessary
bed space for people who need a helping
hand—for folks who realize they need a
helping hand.
Should there be a successful outcome
of this Cleveland lawsuit, wouldn’t it
be best if some of the resources would
be dedicated to places just like that all
over the United States?
I can tell you, in the city of Chicago,
there are many more options than
there are in the more sparsely popu-
lated downstate areas from which I
hail. There are some counties in which
people wait 6 months—once they have
realized their need for help—for any
kind of treatment whatsoever, and
then they have to travel great dis-
tances for that to happen.
Senator SHERROD BROWN and I re-
cently wrote an opinion piece that was
published in the Cleveland Plain Deal-
er. I confess publicly that I hope those
who are party to this lawsuit in Cleve-
land will read it, which is where the
consolidated court case is taking place.
In it, we outlined what we thought
should happen if we were to have any
input in a settlement agreement.
We need to make sure that the
money is spent for addiction; treat-
ment; medication; residential and com-
munity treatment services; mental
health counseling, which is a necessary
adjunct to this effort; building on a be-
havioral health workforce and
naloxone distribution; and addressing
childhood trauma, which is often the
root of addiction.
Wouldn’t it be great if there were to
be a settlement here that would be
dedicated to ending this drug epidemic,
turning lives around, and saving people
from addiction and death?
The diversion of tobacco’s settlement
money should be a cautionary tale that
guides our efforts to heal from the
opioid epidemic. If Big Pharma is held
to account for fueling this crisis, its
restitution should be devoted to help-
ing our Nation heal.
This chart shows the dramatic in-
crease in the production of two of the
most popular opioid products. I will
never be able to explain how the agen-
cy of the U.S. Federal Government,
which is dedicated to protecting us
from drug crime and drug addiction,
ended up authorizing these enormous
quotas of the production of opioid pills.
Yet we know what happened. In tiny
Hardin County in southern Illinois, as
well as on the streets of Chicago, they
were flooded with opioid pills. When
the opioid pills became too expensive,
they turned to a cheaper alternative—
heroin. Heroin was then being laced
with fentanyl, and we have today this
deadly epidemic that is almost out of
control.
I can’t understand what pharma was
thinking except for its just looking at
the profits and the bottom line that
would justify the production of that
level of opioid pills into the United
States of America. All I can promise is
that a number of us—myself included—
will be holding the Drug Enforcement
Administration accountable in order to
make certain that this is not dupli-
cated again in the years to come.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF CLIFTON L. CORKER
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
within a few minutes, the Senate will
be voting on President Trump’s nomi-
nation of Cliff Corker to be the U.S.
Federal District Judge for the Eastern
District of Tennessee. I am here to
strongly urge my colleagues to support
Cliff Corker.
Cliff Corker has the respect of the
people who know him best. He was se-
lected to serve as a magistrate judge
by the district court judges of the
Eastern District of Tennessee—a very
high testament to his qualifications.
When Cliff Corker was appointed
magistrate judge, this is what he said:
It’s a tougher job to be the decision maker
rather than the advocate. There’s so much
more responsibility in making the decision
than advocating for the client because you
really want to see justice done.
Prior to his nomination to be mag-
istrate in 2015, Judge Corker had his
own law firm in Johnston City, TN. He
handled a wide range of cases, from
civil litigation to capital murder.
He graduated from James Madison
University and received his J.D. from
the William & Mary Law School.
The American Bar Association rated
Judge Corker as unanimously ‘‘well
qualified,’’ the highest ranking a nomi-
nee can receive. I am sure that is be-
cause of his judicial and litigation ex-
perience.
Judge Corker has big shoes to fill. He
is taking over for Judge Ronnie Greer,
a very well respected Tennessean, a
friend of mine for many years, who has
served as a judge in Tennessee’s East-
ern District for the last 15 years. Prior
to that, he was a State senator in Ten-
nessee.
Cliff Corker demonstrates the quali-
ties that I look for in a judge: good
character, good temperament, high in-
telligence, respect for the law, and re-
spect for those who come before the
court.
Tennessee is fortunate that President
Trump chose to nominate such a well-
qualified candidate.
I urge my colleagues to support
Judge Corker’s nomination.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for up to 5
minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF LYNDA BLANCHARD
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I re-
gret that I come to the floor to an-
nounce my opposition to one of Presi-
dent Trump’s political nominees, Ms.
Lynda Blanchard. To be honest, I can-
not even believe that we are consid-
ering her nomination on the floor of
the Senate.
U.S. Ambassadors are supposed to
represent the best of America to na-
tions around the world, and I challenge
my colleagues, Republican and Demo-
crat alike, to look at this nominee’s
record and tell me with a straight face
that Lynda Blanchard should represent
the United States anywhere.
Look, I have made a good-faith effort
to work with this administration to
confirm a number of well-qualified in-
dividuals to State Department posi-
tions that are vital to advancing Amer-
ica’s interests around the world. I don’t
think anyone can deny that.
But there are some nominees who
just raise too many red flags, and I
raised this to Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo in a letter I sent in June of
2018, shortly after his confirmation.
I explained that a number of nomi-
nees before the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee had demonstrated his-
tories of questionable temperament
and judgement, of questionable con-
duct, of #MeToo issues, just to mention
a few, and I expressed my hope that we
could work together to find qualified
nominees to the U.S. Department of
State. I am disappointed that that ef-
fort went unheeded.
Ms. Blanchard has a history of using
Facebook as a platform to post incen-
diary, false articles and disturbing
statements. For example, she once
shared an article titled ‘‘The Clinton
‘Body Count’ EXPANDS—5 Mysterious
DEATHS in the Last 6 Weeks,’’ resur-
recting the vicious lie and preposterous
conspiracy theory that President Bill
Clinton and Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton have systematically murdered
political opponents and associates.
Then, on election day of 2016, she
posted on Facebook ‘‘Make God our Fa-
ther paint this country Red with the
Blood of Jesus!’’—inappropriately
using religion as a blunt instrument in
a political campaign.
She has also shared articles by the
far-right Conservative Tribune, some of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:27 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.023 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4886 July 17, 2019
which were taken down for failing to
meet its ‘‘editorial standards’’—quite
literally, fake news.
What is perhaps most disappointing
to me is that 21⁄2 years into the Trump
administration, none of this is particu-
larly new. We have had Trump diplo-
matic appointments call for putting
political opponents in prison, such as
Kyle McCarter, President Trump’s Am-
bassador to Kenya, who tweeted on
election night of 2016: ‘‘Hillary for pris-
on. No, really!’’
We have had Trump diplomatic ap-
pointments, already at their posts,
make totally inappropriate and inflam-
matory forays into American politics,
which is taboo for the Foreign Service,
such as in June of this year, when
Carla Sands, President Trump’s Am-
bassador to Denmark, appeared to ac-
cuse former President Obama of an
‘‘attempted coup d’etat in America’’—
the U.S. Ambassador in Denmark, June
of 2019.
And we have had Trump diplomatic
appointments embarrass the country
by making false claims and then fail-
ing to take responsibility for them.
Pete Hoekstra, appointed by Presi-
dent Trump as Ambassador to the
Netherlands, has claimed that there
were ‘‘no-go zones’’ too dangerous to
enter due to Muslim migration. When
asked about these statements, Ambas-
sador Hoekstra claimed they were
‘‘fake news’’ until he was confronted
with footage of his own words.
This is not normal. We cannot grow
accustomed to this kind of disgraceful
behavior. We cannot look at the poor
behavior of already-confirmed nomi-
nees and conclude that we should lower
our standards when it comes to Ms.
Blanchard’s nomination.
This is the U.S. Senate—supposedly,
the world’s greatest deliberative body.
We should examine the fitness and
qualifications of every single indi-
vidual nominated to be the face of
America in nations across the world.
We should expect our Ambassadors to
represent the United States with dig-
nity, respect, and sound judgment, and
we should remember that America’s
role as a leader of nations rests on our
moral standards and greatest values.
Something is wrong if we willingly
confirm people to these positions who
repeatedly spread fake news, baseless
slander, and the most despicable of
conspiracy mongering.
For these reasons, I will be opposing
the nomination of Lynda Blanchard
and urge my colleagues to do the same.
I yield the floor.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). Pursuant to rule XXII, the
Chair lays before the Senate the pend-
ing cloture motion, which the clerk
will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Clifton L. Corker, of Tennessee, to
be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of Tennessee.
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, Chuck Grassley, John Cornyn,
Tom Cotton, David Perdue, Ron John-
son, Joni Ernst, Mike Braun, Martha
McSally, John Boozman, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Johnny Isakson, Thom Tillis.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Clifton L. Corker, of Tennessee, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Tennessee, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 55,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 213 Ex.]
YEAS—55
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Bennet
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 55, the nays are 41.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to
be Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to the Republic of Slovenia.
Mitch McConnell, Ron Johnson, Steve
Daines, John Kennedy, James E. Risch,
Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Cory Gardner,
Johnny Isakson, Pat Roberts, John
Thune, John Hoeven, Tim Scott, Mike
Crapo, John Cornyn, John Barrasso,
Bill Cassidy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of Slovenia,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 55,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 214 Ex.]
YEAS—55
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:27 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.025 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4887
July 17, 2019
NOT VOTING—4
Bennet
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 55, the nays are 41.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk read
as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to Jamaica.
Mitch McConnell, Martha McSally, Pat
Roberts, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch,
John Barrasso, Tom Cotton, Roger F.
Wicker, John Cornyn, Jerry Moran,
Shelley Moore Capito, Deb Fischer,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard Burr,
Thom Tillis, John Boozman, Chuck
Grassley.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to Jamaica, shall be brought
to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
TILLIS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 67,
nays 28, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 215 Ex.]
YEAS—67
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—28
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Casey
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—5
Bennet
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Tillis
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 67, the nays are 28.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona,
to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to Jamaica.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ‘‘APOLLO 11’’
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, July 20
marks the 50th anniversary of the first
step man took on the Moon. For that
brief moment, all mankind stood
united, watching an awesome spectacle
transpire few would have imagined pos-
sible just years earlier. It stands as one
of the greatest achievements in the
history of mankind, and it cemented
the United States as the world leader
in science, technology, and discovery.
In 1961, when President Kennedy
boldly challenged the Nation to land a
man on the Moon and return him safe-
ly to Earth by the end of the decade,
the technology needed to do so, for the
most part, didn’t even exist.
That we accomplished this monu-
mental goal is a testament to Amer-
ican ingenuity and innovation. In fact,
some of the very technology developed
for the Apollo missions is still having a
positive impact on the lives of Iowans
nearly half a century later. Our first
responders wear fire-resistant textiles
developed for the use in Apollo space
suits. Our communities rely on water
purification technology designed for
the Apollo spacecraft. Our soldiers in
the field depend on the MREs, Meals
Ready to Eat, created to safely feed
Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Mi-
chael Collins on their half-million-mile
journey to the Moon and back. My
daughter Libby, who is a cadet at West
Point, was recently sharing some very
strong opinions about these MREs, but
maybe she will feel differently after I
tell her this was actually food for as-
tronauts.
Yet, in all seriousness, when the gov-
ernment makes wise and sound invest-
ments in the development of emerging
technology, the benefits can be tre-
mendous.
GPS is a great example of this, espe-
cially in Iowa. GPS has its roots in the
military and has a strong Air Force
stewardship, and its significance only
continues to grow with the advance-
ments of satellites and the develop-
ment of drones. Yet GPS has evolved
beyond just military use; it impacts
the everyday lives of Iowans. From
driving directions in rideshare services
to the electric power grid, GPS is uti-
lized by businesses and consumers
across the country. This important
technology supports new and emerging
applications, including water quality,
driverless vehicles, and precision agri-
culture. It is estimated that civilian
and commercial access to GPS added
$90 billion in annual value to the U.S.
economy in 2013.
Examples like these demonstrate
why it is so important this body and
our Nation as a whole continue to push
the envelope when it comes to science,
technology, and discovery, and that is
exactly what Senate Republicans have
been doing.
As chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Subcommittee on Emerging
Threats and Capabilities, I have made
it a priority to ensure that the United
States remains the world’s leader in
the development of artificial intel-
ligence, or AI. From novel defensive
capabilities and data analysis to the
predictive maintenance of military
hardware, there is no overstating the
value of AI to our national security.
I also fought to ensure the recent De-
fense bill prioritized the continued de-
velopment of advanced manufacturing
techniques, otherwise known as 3D
printing. Look no further than Rock
Island Arsenal, which employs so many
of my fellow Iowans. They are doing
some truly innovative work in this
arena—work that has the potential to
transform the way we supply our men
and women in uniform. As a former
company commander who oversaw sup-
ply convoys into a war zone, I know
personally how important this is.
Of course, there is a consensus on
both sides of the aisle that we can do
more to get our students—especially
young girls—excited about futures in
STEM and STEAM. I hope we can work
together to advance that effort in the
near future. After all, the Moon land-
ing could have never happened without
the contributions of thousands of
women from across the Nation. These
unsung heroes did everything from de-
veloping Apollo’s onboard software to
weaving the copper wire for the space-
craft’s guidance system.
As we mark the 50th anniversary of
the Apollo 11 Moon landing, there will
be countless commemorations and trib-
utes to this monumental event. We will
look back on President Kennedy’s bold
call to action, the hundreds of thou-
sands of hard-working American men
and women who answered that call,
and the three heroes who rode Apollo 11
to the Moon and back. Then, in that
same spirit, we will turn our gaze to
the future—to the innovation, to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.014 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4888 July 17, 2019
technology, and to discovery. Be it
here on Earth or out amongst the
stars, the United States will continue
to lead the way as we look to take that
next great step for mankind.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
am pleased to join my colleagues in
commemorating the 50th anniversary
of American astronauts becoming the
first humans to walk on the Moon.
It was 50 years ago that the United
States met one of the biggest chal-
lenges it had ever set for itself.
Through determination, hard work, in-
vention, and innovation, the United
States fulfilled President Kennedy’s vi-
sion of reaching the Moon before the
end of the 1960s.
I remember that time very well, for
July 16, 1969, was my dad’s 37th birth-
day. We were vacationing in Florida, at
the Spyglass Inn on the beach. We were
so excited to be close to Merritt Island,
FL, where Apollo 11 was being
launched. We were in our hotel room,
watching the television. That is one
vacation I will never forget. As a young
girl, I remember watching those first
astronauts step foot on the Moon. It
was with great awe that I watched
Apollo 11 lift off from the Earth and
watched the lunar module land safely
on the surface of the Moon. With a lot
of amazement, I watched Neil Arm-
strong and Buzz Aldrin as they an-
nounced ‘‘the Eagle has landed’’ and
then as they took those first brave
steps on the Moon. It was with great
pride that I watched them plant the
American flag on the Moon.
Those brave NASA astronauts of the
Apollo program today continue to
serve as an inspiration that we are ca-
pable of anything we set our minds to.
Equally important is the reminder that
those astronauts could not have
reached the Moon without their having
the support of the thousands of men
and women who were both in NASA
and in the aerospace industry. It is a
reminder that we are at our best when
we work together.
While NASA’s mission has changed
and evolved over the last 60 years, the
aerospace industry continues to play a
vital role in our quest for knowledge
and America’s national security mis-
sion.
In my home State of Mississippi, we
are very proud of the conspicuous roles
our citizens play in our Nation’s space
exploration and endeavors. Since the
earliest days of America’s space pro-
gram, Mississippi has played an impor-
tant role in the quest to explore the
stars.
For more than 50 years, the John C.
Stennis Space Center, in Hancock
County, MS, has dutifully tested and
approved NASA’s largest rocket en-
gines, including the Saturn V rockets
that took our astronauts to the Moon
and, later, the engines for the space
shuttle program. Stennis is today test-
ing engines and rocket stages for
NASA’s Space Launch System, which
will again take humans beyond low-
Earth orbit. I am pleased, much like in
the Apollo days, that Mississippi has
an important role in the SLS program.
As we are fond of reminding everyone,
‘‘The road to space goes through Mis-
sissippi.’’
However, Stennis isn’t only known
for its rocket testing to support NASA
missions; it also proudly bears the title
of the ‘‘Federal City’’ and is one of the
Federal Government’s best places to
work. With a 13,800-acre area that is
surrounded by a 125,000-acre buffer
zone, it has allowed dozens of our Fed-
eral and private sector tenants to take
advantage of its unique isolation and
security to serve our Nation’s interest
across many sectors, perhaps most no-
tably in the field of oceanography and
meteorology.
The meteorological and oceano-
graphic modeling and forecasting capa-
bilities at Stennis provide naval com-
manders with the information they
need to make good decisions that af-
fect the safety of ships and sailors
around the world every single day. The
Navy’s largest supercomputer is lo-
cated at Stennis.
The unique Federal city of Stennis
Space Center covers exploration from
the bottom of the ocean to the far
reaches of the universe. It is America’s
largest rocket test complex—an im-
pressive tsunami and weather buoy
production site—and is a place where
elite Naval Special Warfare personnel
conduct highly advanced riverine and
jungle training by using cutting-edge
unmanned systems technology. Stennis
also houses several private initiatives,
such as Aerojet Rocketdyne’s engine
assembly facility, Lockheed Martin’s
Mississippi Space & Technology Cen-
ter, a Rolls Royce test facility, and
Relativity Space. The national and
international scope of work that takes
place at Stennis every day creates a
local, direct economic impact of nearly
$600 million and has nearly $1 billion in
its global impact.
As we mark this 50th anniversary, I
am pleased that Stennis Space Center
is helping to inspire, encourage, and
prepare students to pursue science,
technology, engineering, and math-re-
lated careers—the talents we will need
to get to Mars and beyond.
Since its inception more than 60
years ago, NASA has pioneered sci-
entific discovery and captivated the
Nation. These capabilities are espe-
cially important in today’s world,
where innovation and fostering an in-
terest among our youth in the science,
technology, mathematics, and engi-
neering fields are vital to the United
States’ continuing to be a success in
this world.
I am proud that Mississippi plays a
vital role in our Nation’s work to meet
the technological challenges of today
and tomorrow. This work occurs not
only at Stennis Space Center but also
at so many other related businesses
across the State of Mississippi.
The people of Mississippi look with
pride at our role in the United States’
having reached the Moon 50 years ago,
and we look forward to the decades
ahead when the testing, technology,
and innovation taking place in our
State helps the American space pro-
gram reach new, monumental achieve-
ments. I believe the 50th anniversary of
the Apollo 11 Moon landing can and
should inspire generations of people
around the world to explore and push
the boundaries of what they believe to
be possible.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I am
honored to join my colleagues today to
commemorate this anniversary of an
incredible event.
Fifty-eight years ago in May of 1961—
the year in which I was born—Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy appeared before
Congress and boldly declared the
United States would send an American
to the Moon before the end of the dec-
ade. This was no small task, obviously,
as programs had to be funded, as sci-
entific advancements had to be made,
and as foreign adversaries had to be
kept at bay. As the head of NASA’s
Space Task Group said, ‘‘Flying a man
to the Moon required an enormous ad-
vance in the science of flight in a very
short time.’’ Yet President Kennedy
was not deterred. In his ignoring con-
ventional wisdom and the ever-present
naysayers, he pressed on, and so did the
patriotic Americans who were charged
with making this happen.
A few years later, NASA began its
Apollo missions, and the necessary sci-
entific advancements became a reality.
In October of 1968, Apollo 7 was the first
Apollo mission in space, and it con-
ducted the very first live TV program
of a U.S. spacecraft. Apollo 8 launched
2 months later and successfully orbited
the Moon. Apollo 9 carried the first
lunar module into orbit in March of
1969. We were getting closer. Apollo 10
launched in May. It was a full dress re-
hearsal for the Apollo 11 mission. It was
successful. We were ready.
Fifty years ago yesterday, Neil Arm-
strong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Col-
lins launched the Apollo 11 mission to
fulfill President Kennedy’s promise of
landing on the Moon. That week, my 8-
year-old self and an estimated 650 mil-
lion of my closest friends from around
the world watched Neil Armstrong land
on the Moon and plant our Nation’s
flag. He offered the famous phrase:
‘‘That’s one small step for man, one
giant leap for mankind.’’
That giant leap was a monumental
moment in history, for sure, and it
didn’t happen in the abstract. It was
really the result of hundreds of years of
scientific discovery and decades of
work from countless public servants
who devoted their lives to this cause.
Apollo 10 gave Apollo 11 the confidence
that the operation would be successful.
Apollo 7 gave us the opportunity to see
its success with our own eyes. The as-
tronauts of Apollo 1, in a fatal 1967
tragedy, gave their lives to this mis-
sion. That giant leap happened because
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:11 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.036 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4889
July 17, 2019
of the small steps that had been taken
before it, and those who took that
giant leap are pressing on even today.
The scientific discovery and space ex-
ploration that were made possible be-
cause of those missions continue to
this day, including in my great State
of North Dakota. Just a few years after
the Moon landing, the University of
North Dakota’s John Odegard asked
Buzz Aldrin to come to our State to
help him start a space education pro-
gram within the University of North
Dakota, and Buzz Aldrin said yes.
He left the State, of course, ulti-
mately, but the program stayed, and it
grew.
Today, students from across the
globe enroll in the University of North
Dakota to learn about the cutting-edge
technologies and scientific break-
throughs in space exploration. Some of
their recent endeavors provide vital in-
sights for future space exploration, in-
cluding for a mission to Mars.
North Dakotans don’t just learn;
they get involved. Some even become
astronauts. New Rockford’s own James
Buchli joined NASA in 1979 and 6 years
later became the first North Dakotan
to go to space, and he is now in the
U.S. Astronaut Hall of Fame.
Shortly after Buchli’s space flight
came West Fargo’s Tony England, who
launched into space 6 months later.
England’s career is marked by his work
15 years earlier at Mission Control,
where he and others heard the chilling
words, ‘‘Houston, we have a problem.’’
England’s team helped save the lives of
those on the Apollo 13 mission that day.
Then Jamestown’s Rick Hieb
launched into space three times start-
ing in 1991. The University of North Da-
kota’s 1994 graduate Karen Nyberg was
the 50th woman ever to launch into
space. She did it first in 2008. She also
spent 6 months on the International
Space Station in 2013 and now serves on
the board of the University of North
Dakota School of Aerospace Sciences’
foundation, giving back to her alma
mater.
North Dakotans leave an outsized
mark in the world of space exploration,
and they are just getting started. The
University of North Dakota touts over
100 students taking graduate classes in
the Department of Space Studies, and
they have handed out nearly 800 master
of science degrees in space studies
since the program began.
I am optimistic about the roles these
leaders will play in the future, fol-
lowing the leads of giants like Buzz
Aldrin and Karen Nyberg.
I was only 8 years old during the
Apollo 11 mission. Like most Ameri-
cans, I found it to be an exhilarating
experience, even watching it on my
parents’ black and white television.
But I know I didn’t fully grasp the im-
portance of what I was watching that
day. I worry sometimes that many peo-
ple still don’t. Space was, is, and will
be integral to our way of life, and we
must continue to maintain our com-
mercial, technological, and military
edge in this important domain.
I hope we will use this anniversary as
an opportunity to reaffirm our com-
mitment to space exploration and to
remind ourselves of the impact invest-
ments made today can have on our fu-
ture, and along the way, perhaps we
can renew that unifying American spir-
it that was so prevalent on that day 50
years ago and perhaps even give inspi-
ration to aspiration once again.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, if the
Senator from North Dakota was here
to speak about Apollo 11 and got here a
moment or two before me, I am happy
to yield.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I thank
the good Senator from Mississippi.
This weekend, our Nation will mark
the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11
Moon landing. This was a tremendous
feat for our country.
In recognition of this true American
triumph, I am cosponsoring a Senate
resolution celebrating the 50th anni-
versary of the Moon landing. Our reso-
lution recognizes the vision of Presi-
dent Kennedy and the hard work and
the ingenuity of the men and women of
NASA who made it possible for our Na-
tion to achieve what seemed to be an
impossible goal at the time.
Like many Americans, I can still re-
member the excitement of seeing the
American flag planted on the Moon and
hearing Neil Armstrong say the famous
line, ‘‘That’s one small step for man,
one giant leap for mankind.’’
Truly it was a giant leap. NASA not
only helped develop technologies to put
astronauts on the Moon, but these
technologies have benefited industries,
including our military, the medical
field, energy, and many others.
We all know NASA is a premiere cen-
ter for scientific research and techno-
logical advancement, but it is impor-
tant to remember that NASA’s mission
includes not only space but also aero-
nautics.
As our Nation did during the space
race, we are now working to stay at the
forefront of new technologies, includ-
ing unmanned aerial systems. In par-
ticular, I want to highlight the re-
search NASA is doing right now in sup-
port of unmanned aviation. NASA is
designing an unmanned air traffic man-
agement system that will provide air
traffic control for unmanned aircraft
operations. This traffic management
project is critical to unlocking the po-
tential of unmanned aviation, from
package delivery to pipeline inspec-
tions.
NASA is at the forefront of this ef-
fort to make unmanned flights safe and
efficient for a multitude of operators.
North Dakota works right along with
NASA toward this goal, with a UAS
test site that is helping advance all as-
pects of unmanned aviation. In fact,
they were recently selected by the FAA
to host an unmanned traffic pilot pro-
gram and have developed a strong part-
nership with NASA to research, de-
velop, and demonstrate this tech-
nology.
I continue to support funding for un-
manned traffic management research
because I am confident that NASA,
with the help of its industry partners,
as well as our test site in North Da-
kota, will meet this complex techno-
logical challenge. By making a rel-
atively small investment in unmanned
traffic management research today,
NASA is going to help unlock billions
of dollars in economic activity in the
not-too-distant future.
We have worked hard to ensure that
North Dakota is an important part of
exploring this new NASA frontier, and
we are thrilled to help realize the wide
variety of benefits that unmanned
aviation will bring, making our Nation
more prosperous and secure, and we
can only imagine where we will be 50
years from today.
I yield the floor to the great Senator
from the great State of Mississippi.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I thank
my friend from North Dakota, and I
thank all of the people who have ar-
ranged for this special recognition.
Mr. INHOFE. Will the Senator yield
for a unanimous consent request?
Mr. WICKER. I am delighted to yield
to my friend from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that at the conclu-
sion of the remarks of the Senator
from Mississippi, I be recognized for
such time as I may consume.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, it is
really hard to believe that the first
Moon landing was 50 years ago, but, in
fact, 50 years ago today, three Ameri-
cans were on their way to the Moon—
Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Mi-
chael Collins.
I had the honor of actually meeting
with Buzz Aldrin just the other day,
shaking his hand, and being able to lis-
ten to his perspectives about what has
happened in the last 50 years. What a
great American.
At this moment, I would also honor
the names of Neil Armstrong and Mi-
chael Collins. While Neil Armstrong
and Buzz Aldrin got to step foot on the
Moon, Michael Collins’ assignment was
to stay in the vehicle and orbit solo
above. It was not at all guaranteed
that his two colleagues would get back.
We certainly thought we had the tech-
nology; we thought we could do it, and
indeed we did, but it was not a given.
Michael Collins wrote during that
lonely flight while his two colleagues
were walking on the face of the Moon:
I am . . . absolutely isolated from any
known life. I am it. If a count were taken,
the score would be three billion plus two
over on the other side of the Moon, and one
plus God knows what on this side.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.037 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4890 July 17, 2019
Those are the words of American
hero Michael Collins.
These three men were separated from
the rest of humanity, but they cer-
tainly were not alone. Hundreds of mil-
lions of people watched and prayed and
gave them their best wishes.
It is hard to believe—and I still have
to pinch myself—that I was a freshman
in college for this Moon walk, and that
was 50 years ago. How could 50 years
have passed by so quickly?
Men and women have always looked
up at the night sky and seen their he-
roes in the constellations. Now we still
look up at the sky, and we see our he-
roes, but among them are astronauts
who go to the stars and return and will
go to the Moon and to Mars and return.
I want to salute the people who have
done it before and the people who are
making plans to put a man and woman
on the face of the Moon within 5 years.
I was so honored to chair a hearing
just this morning featuring NASA Ad-
ministrator Bridenstine, who has put
forward a bold proposal from the
Trump administration, which has
moved the deadline up from 10 years to
5 years. Indeed, I can tell you, it is the
goal of NASA and it is the goal of this
Member of the U.S. Senate and the
committee that I chair to facilitate
making this go and actually putting a
man and a woman back on the face of
the Moon in 5 years and then, beyond
that, on Mars.
These are ambitious goals, which
match and rival the ambition of Presi-
dent Kennedy, who announced this
plan in 1961. Credit goes to President
Johnson, who took up the cause after
the assassination of President Ken-
nedy, and President Nixon, a Repub-
lican succeeding two Democrats, who
saw it to fruition in 1969.
I am proud to salute all of the peo-
ple—some nameless, faceless people
who are not famous—for their role in
this magnificent accomplishment.
I am proud to say that Mississippians
were among the first to answer Presi-
dent Kennedy’s call. After all, the Sat-
urn V rocket used for the Apollo Pro-
gram was tested at Stennis Space Cen-
ter in Hancock County in Mississippi,
where we still do almost all of the
rocket testing in the United States of
America.
As Wernher von Braun, one of the
leaders of U.S. early space efforts once
said, ‘‘I don’t know yet what method
we will use to get to the Moon, but I do
know that we [will] have to go through
Mississippi to get there.’’ That was
true back in the sixties, and it is true
today as we approach the one-fifth
mark of the 21st century.
We owe so much to the pioneers. Hu-
mankind owes so much to the people
who answered President Kennedy’s
charge not only to win the space race—
our country against those cosmonauts
of the Soviet Union—but also for all of
the peaceful results that have come
from this.
Technologies behind CT scans came
from the space program. Intensive care
monitoring equipment, which saves
lives every day around the globe, came
from the scientific discoveries that
were accomplished during our race to
the Moon. GPS and smart phones all
have their origins in Apollo.
The commercial space sector is now
valued at more than $400 billion, and it
is reminding us all of the power of free
enterprise to open up new frontiers.
Clearly, that $400 billion will grow over
the next decade, perhaps to trillions
and trillions of dollars.
Certainly the writers of Newsweek
were correct when they called the
Moonshot ‘‘the best return on invest-
ment since Leonardo da Vinci bought
himself a sketch pad.’’ They were ex-
actly right, and this next shot should
give us an opportunity also to get our
money’s worth.
We will go back to the Moon; we will
go on to Mars. So as we celebrate the
50th anniversary, we look toward the
future to all the missions that will
come and go, and we remind ourselves
of this country’s common purpose and
potential. The Moon landing was not
the end of an age of discovery; it was
only the beginning.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). The Senator from Oklahoma.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I am
looking forward to joining in on this
discussion that is taking place right
now on what is happening with these
people and Oklahoma’s role in this.
Jim Bridenstine is a fairly recent Di-
rector of NASA, and he is committed
to reestablishing our position of leader-
ship. We haven’t really lost it, but it
hasn’t been as prominent as it has been
in the past.
We have people like Tom Stafford. I
talk to Tom Stafford almost on a daily
basis. He is still around. He is still ac-
tive. He still rejoices in the fact that
we are reestablishing our position, and
I am very excited about that.
I wasn’t going to talk about that
today. I think that is going to be to-
morrow.
There is another area in which Presi-
dent Trump and the Republican Senate
have had great success, and that is in
remaking the Federal judiciary. As of
this week, we have confirmed 43 appel-
late judges. That is more at this 21⁄2-
year point than in any other Presi-
dent’s term in the history of this coun-
try. That is what is going on, and it
goes unnoticed. These judicial con-
firmations have real impact.
Here is a great example. This week,
the Ninth Circuit—the notoriously lib-
eral appellate court in California—
ruled that portions of President
Trump’s ‘‘Project Life’’ rule can—not
can’t, can—go into effect. This is a
commonsense rule.
All it says is that in States that re-
ceive title X funding, it cannot be used
by clinics to provide abortions. We cal-
culate that this would have the result
of defunding Planned Parenthood by
about an initial $60 million annually. It
is a great start to defunding the abor-
tion-on-demand culture, and it is pos-
sible only because President Trump
and Leader MCCONNELL have rightly
made remaking the Federal judiciary a
top priority.
What I want to talk about is some-
thing we need to talk about now be-
cause it has not been called to the at-
tention of the American people, and
that is about the great work being
done in this administration to better
our environment.
When you say that perhaps it can be
argued the Trump administration may
go down as one of the truly great envi-
ronmental administrations, nobody
will believe that. In my lifetime and in
my history, I have never seen a Presi-
dent so detested by members of the
media. So people, consequently, don’t
know, with the exception of a few
tweets. I admit that I cringe a little bit
when I hear a new tweet coming out.
But, look, if that is the only way you
can get the truth out, it is something
that has worked, and it has been very
effective.
We have a White House dedicated to
clean air, land, and water by cutting
excessive, duplicative regulations.
Based on what you see in the media,
you would think this President turned
his back on the environment, but it has
been just the opposite. We are seeing
significant progress in environmental
protection that we have not seen in
any other administration. Americans
should know the truth about how this
administration is leading the world in
environmental gains, all the while
growing the economy.
People say: Well, you can’t do that.
That can’t be done. You can’t increase
economic activity at the same time as
making environmental gains.
But that is actually happening.
Look at the chart behind me. There
are a couple facts most Americans real-
ly don’t know. They had no way of
knowing, until now. Since 1970, com-
bined emissions of the six common pol-
lutants—we are talking about the rec-
ognized six common pollutants out
there—dropped by 74 percent while the
U.S. economy grew by 275 percent.
Is it possible that could happen? It
did happen because there it is right
there—all this economic activity, all
this growth. The bottom line is the ag-
gregate emissions of the six common
pollutants. There they are, going down.
That is because this administration
knows what it is doing and has the
commitment that other people are not
aware of.
Now look at CO2. We have had de-
bates over the years about whether or
not CO2 is one of the pollutants. It is
not one of the six common pollutants,
but nonetheless it is one that people
seem to be looking at.
Since 2005 the United States’ energy-
related CO2 emissions fell by 14 per-
cent, while global energy-related CO2
emissions increased by over 20 percent.
We are talking about all the emissions
increased, and still we had a reduction.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.039 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4891
July 17, 2019
Despite this drop in emissions, in 2018
the United States became the world’s
leading producer of oil and natural gas
and a net exporter of oil and natural
gas fossil fuels for the first time in 75
years. I am particularly proud of this.
I am from an oil State, the State of
Oklahoma. I know how many jobs are
tied to it. I know what has happened to
our economy, and a lot of that can be
attributed to using the proper energy
sources that we have available to us.
This administration has proven that
we don’t have to impose massive tax
increases or regulatory burdens on
American families in order to reduce
pollution. We are reducing pollution,
clearly. Democrats often say the
United States is failing to properly re-
duce carbon emissions, and this just
isn’t true.
Look at chart No. 2. The reality is
our CO2 emissions have been falling. In
2017 the United States led the world in
CO2 emission reductions while, nota-
bly, China led in emissions.
You have to look at this. The top line
is the United States. That is reduction.
We are leading the world in reductions
of CO2 emissions. All the way across, at
the very bottom of the page, China has
the largest increase of CO2 emissions.
What a contrast that is. It defies every-
thing else we read about, and yet there
it is. That is the truth.
A lot of people are not aware that
there is a big party which takes place
every December. It has happened now
for about 21 or maybe 22 years. That is
where 180 countries get together and
talk about what they are going to do to
reduce CO2 emissions. We see who is
and who is not reducing CO2 emissions
with this chart.
They talk about the great Paris ac-
cord, which this President wisely took
us out of. What that did was to have
these countries line up, and between
India and China, they are responsible
for one-fourth of all CO2 emissions. At
that time, their obligation was to con-
tinue doing what they were doing with
coal-fired plants until 2025. Then, they
will consider reducing their emissions.
What kind of a commitment is that?
Meanwhile, our President at that
time was President Obama, and Presi-
dent Obama made commitments that
could not be kept by our country. Yet,
stop to think. We don’t need to. We are
already doing it. Just look at what we
are doing right now. People don’t know
that. China and India represent almost
half of all the global carbon emissions.
We just don’t hear this in the news, and
that is why we need to be talking
about it.
Another thing I bet most people
don’t know is that in the early 1970s,
more than 40 percent of America’s
drinking water systems failed basic
health standards, but today 93 percent
of the systems meet all health stand-
ards all the time. In fact, the United
States is ranked No. 1 in the world for
clean drinking water.
Clearly, this President’s environ-
mental policies are working. We would
think environmentalists and Demo-
crats would be praising our President,
given these undeniable successes, but
instead they are pushing for the Green
New Deal. We have all heard about the
Green New Deal and what it is going to
be doing. It is about a $93 trillion pro-
gram being promoted by a lot of the
liberals around this environment here
in Washington. The authors of this
Green New Deal spent four pages paint-
ing the scary and inaccurate picture of
our environment. Then, they spent the
next nine pages outlining their social-
ist agenda, aimed at ensuring the gov-
ernment dictates life in America—from
the car you drive to the energy you
consume.
In the Green New Deal, they talk
about eliminating air traffic. That is
very nice. I don’t know how people will
get around.
They also want to eliminate beef. I
happen to be from a beef State. We like
beef, but, apparently, there are things
that cows do. They make noise and
don’t smell good. So they want to
eliminate beef.
They want to eliminate oil and gas
altogether. You can’t eliminate oil and
gas. Right now, 80 percent of our en-
ergy that we use to enjoy life in Amer-
ica comes from oil and gas, and that is
going to continue. I don’t see it chang-
ing in the near future.
Scientists like MIT’s Richard
Lindzen have been calling out climate
alarmists for years on this conspiracy
to control our lives. This flawed plan
doesn’t take into account that over 80
percent of the United States’ energy
comes from fossil fuels—80 percent. If
you eliminate fossil fuels, how do you
run this machine called America? The
answer is, you can’t. Our Nation runs
on American coal, oil, and gas, and
that isn’t going to change any time
soon.
We had a vote in the Senate on this
radical Green New Deal plan, but not a
single Democrat was willing to vote for
it. A lot of them voted present. They
didn’t want to get on record voting for
it, and yet that is what they are pro-
moting over in the House. They know
their plan will not work and is ex-
tremely unpopular. So they weren’t
going to join it. Anytime you don’t
want to vote for or against something,
what do you do? You vote present.
I didn’t think Democrats could be
more radical than they were under the
Obama administration, but I was
wrong. At least I give the Obama ad-
ministration credit for being honest
about its radical war on fossil fuels.
For 8 years, President Obama targeted
oil and gas producers in States like my
State of Oklahoma, but President
Obama lost that fight, and Oklahoma
energy producers continue to create
thousands of jobs to fuel this machine
called America.
I think back to 1990. I was here in
1990, and that is when we passed a land-
mark piece of legislation called the
Clean Air Act. I cosponsored that act,
and that succeeded in reducing acid
rain, air pollution, and harm to our
ozone layer. It has gone down in his-
tory as one of the true great successes
that has happened in this country in
terms of the environment. We are all a
part of this, and we have been success-
ful.
Many of today’s Democrats are vir-
tually unrecognizable compared to
those back in 1990. I urge my Demo-
cratic colleagues to reject radical so-
cialist environmental policies, come
back to reality, and support our Presi-
dent’s very effective approach.
I am proud of President Trump and
his administration’s record on improv-
ing our Nation’s environment while
streamlining government overreach. It
is possible to have a thriving economy
while safeguarding our air and water.
Again, I ask you to look at this
chart. Just look and see what we have
done and where we are. In spite of what
you hear, we are leading the country,
under this administration, which is
going to go down and be recognized as
one of the truly great environmental
administrations. I am very proud of
that. I think it is time that people
know it.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The clerk will call the
roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
AMERICAN MINERS ACT
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President,
once again I am here to announce a
looming deadline hanging over the
heads of our hard-working and patri-
otic coal miners. It is a shame that we
have to do this again, and the reason is
that we didn’t fix it the first time.
If we don’t pass the American Miners
Act, there will be 1,200 retired coal
miners who will lose their healthcare
by the end of this year. Those 1,200 coal
miners spent a lifetime underground,
in part, digging the coal that we need-
ed to become the strongest and great-
est Nation the world has ever seen.
They have always done the heavy lift-
ing. They gave up raises and bonuses
year after year in exchange for the
promise of economic security when
they retired. So they paid for this.
They held up their end of the bargain,
and it is time that we held up ours.
Why is the healthcare of retired coal
miners once again on the chopping
block? We have gone through this be-
fore. It is because of the courts. Our
court system has again allowed coal
companies to break their promises to
their workers. Through bankruptcy,
they were able to shed their obliga-
tions to pay for these hard-earned
healthcare and pension benefits, and
then they were able to reemerge from
bankruptcy as a profitable company
once all the money was basically taken
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.042 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4892 July 17, 2019
from them. This time around, it was
Westmoreland Coal Company and Mis-
sion Coal Company that both declared
bankruptcy approximately at the same
time in 2018.
For those of you who think this is
another big government program, let
me share a little history with you.
In 1946, due to the horrendous work-
ing conditions our miners faced every
day, there was a nationwide strike. It
brought our Nation’s economy to its
knees. President Truman dispatched
the Secretary of the Interior, Julius
Krug, to meet with the president of the
United Mine Workers of America, John
L. Lewis. They ended that strike by
signing the Krug-Lewis Agreement,
which created a retirement fund and
healthcare benefits for our Nation’s
miners and their families that had the
full backing of the U.S. Government.
It was not coming from government
tax dollars. It did not come from the
people of the United States paying for
this retirement and pension plan and
healthcare. It came from every ton of
coal that was sold. From that time for-
ward, there would be a certain amount
of that set aside. So they worked for it,
and they paid for it. It was part of their
compensation. Unfortunately, over 70
years later, we are still fighting to
make good on that promise.
Then, in the 1980s, with the bank-
ruptcy laws changing the way they did,
people were basically walking away.
This money was there. Somebody got
it. Usually, through the bankruptcy, it
was dispersed to the creditors and not
to the miners who had earned it. That
is what we are really talking about.
We have the chance today to pass my
bill, the American Miners Act, along
with all of my colleagues who worked
so hard with us on that, to ensure that
once and for all these coal miners and
their wives and children will not lose
their healthcare and pension benefits
and will get them back. It is fully off-
set and will not cost the taxpayers a
dime. We are using money that we are
not only borrowing, but basically it is
from abandoned mine land money, of
which we have excesses, which can still
take care of the obligations we have to
use it for those who mine the coal.
The entire Democratic caucus co-
sponsored this bill when it was filed on
the National Defense Authorization
Act last month. Everybody signed off.
If our colleague here, the Senator from
Kentucky, would just put it on the
agenda, it would pass. It came out of
the Finance Committee last year in a
bipartisan vote—a very strong bipar-
tisan vote. We all know we have made
a commitment to the people who work
so hard.
I am asking all of us to keep our
promise the way we did when we passed
the Miners Protection Act, which saved
the healthcare of 22,600 miners. We
need to finish the job, but guess what.
We still have 87,000 miners who are
going to lose their pensions by no later
than 2022 if we don’t do something.
This adds another 1,200 who are going
to lose their healthcare by the end of
the year. So the crunch time is here.
These people have worked hard.
Let me tell you about the pensions.
The people who would receive the pen-
sions are mostly widows. Do you know
what the average pension is? Less than
$600 a month—less than $600 a month
for the people who have worked for 20,
30, 40 years underground and have pro-
vided the energy to keep the lights on
in the country and have kept our coun-
try strong enough to help us win every
war.
I am happy that my colleagues have
joined me here today. I am happy that
my neighboring Senator from the great
State of Virginia is right here beside
me.
Senator KAINE has been a champion
working very hard for the coal miners
in Southwest Virginia who have con-
tributed so much to our country and
basically worked very closely with the
miners in West Virginia. We are proud
to have him here.
So without further conversation from
me, I am going to now turn it over to
my good friend and colleague Senator
TIM KAINE from Virginia.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I
thank my colleague from West Vir-
ginia because this is a matter of the
heart for him. He has worked so hard
on this as a Governor of West Virginia
and as a U.S. Senator. It has been my
honor to work together with him on
this and so many other issues.
I will begin with a little bit of his-
tory. We are right in the midst of Vir-
ginia’s 30th anniversary of the Pittston
Coal strike. It began on April 5, 1989, in
Southwest Virginia. The Pittston Coal
Company, which was headquartered in
Pennsylvania, terminated all
healthcare benefits for approximately
1,500 retirees, widows, and disabled
miners. That anniversary is being cele-
brated right now. When these
healthcare benefits were terminated, it
led to a strike. It lasted from April of
1989 until February 20 of 1990—nearly 10
months.
Then-president of the United Mine
Workers Union, Rich Trumka, who is
now the president of AFL–CIO, was
asked during this time period as the
miners and their families and the retir-
ees made great sacrifices for striking:
How long can you hold out? They were
seeing the benefits they were getting
as strikers—instead of a $600-a-week
strike benefit, which was the original
plan, the funds had dwindled down, and
they were getting $200 a week. That
was all they were getting during the
strike, and when Rich Trumka was
asked ‘‘How long can the miners hold
out?’’ he said: We can hold out one day
longer than the Pittston Coal Com-
pany.
That is, in fact, what happened. In
February, they reached an agreement.
It was a historic labor strike that was
because of healthcare benefits and be-
cause of the need of the people who do
one of the toughest jobs in this coun-
try—a job that will rack its pain on
your body in a physical way, unlike
any other kind of work. Losing
healthcare is tough for anybody, but
for somebody working underground in
a mine, it is absolutely catastrophic.
As my colleague mentioned, we are
here to talk about the American Min-
ers Act, which he is leading and I am
proud to cosponsor. The UMWA Pen-
sion Plan is projected, right now, to be-
come insolvent by 2022, and this could
be advanced and come even sooner if
there is another major bankruptcy.
My colleague talked about the his-
tory of this pension plan. During the
Presidency of President Truman and in
the aftermath of that strike, there was
an agreement that there would be em-
ployer contributions into the pension
plan based on every ton of coal that
was sold.
The employer contributions have de-
clined significantly in recent years as
coal companies have gone out of busi-
ness and other companies have cre-
atively used the bankruptcy laws, as
my colleague indicated, to skate out of
their obligations to these hard-working
miners and their families and retirees.
If we do not intervene, if we do not
pass the American Miners Act or some-
thing essentially identical, 87,000—
87,000—current beneficiaries and an ad-
ditional 20,000 vested retirees could
lose all or part of their pension bene-
fits.
The insolvency of the mine workers’
pension would put further pressure on
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpora-
tion, which is already facing other
shortfalls. And it is not just pensions;
it is also healthcare. Because of a re-
cent bankruptcy of the Westmoreland
Coal Company, as my colleague men-
tioned, 1,200 miners and their families,
largely widows and others, are slated
to potentially lose healthcare coverage
very soon. That would include 800 Vir-
ginians who could lose health coverage
by the end of the year.
I remember when my colleague was
leading the successful effort in 2017. To
fix one of the issues with healthcare
benefits for these families, I attended a
roundtable session with many of them
in Castlewood, VA, at the UMWA field
office there. I went in at a midweek,
midafternoon time when you wouldn’t
normally expect a lot of people to at-
tend a meeting, and the room was abso-
lutely packed with people who were so
very, very frightened. They were slat-
ed, at that point, to lose health cov-
erage.
Remember, this was at the end of
April. It was about April 20 when I was
there with them. They were looking at
me with fear in their eyes, asking what
they should do: Should I go out and
buy insurance on my own? But who is
going to cover me? Look at my age.
Look at my physical condition. Look
at the conditions my wife is dealing
with.
It wasn’t uncommon to be dealing
with a working or recently retired
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.043 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4893
July 17, 2019
miner with a spouse who had cancer,
and the threat of losing health insur-
ance in that circumstance was existen-
tial. I could look him in the eye, and I
couldn’t really promise him anything
except that we would try.
We were able to get a fix at that
point that saved healthcare for thou-
sands and thousands of miners, and we
did that with our colleagues in this
body—Democratic and Republican—
and in the House as well. Well, it is
time for us to step up again.
Here is what the American Miners
Act would do. It would shore up the
pension plan to ensure that workers re-
ceive the benefits they have earned.
The bill would also safeguard
healthcare coverage for workers who
are projected to lose their coverage be-
cause of the Westmoreland Coal Bank-
ruptcy. It builds on the bill that we
passed in a bipartisan way in 2017.
Lastly—and this is really important.
I am so happy that in working on the
bill, Senator MANCHIN and I decided to
do this. The bill is going to ensure fi-
nancing for medical treatment and
basic expenses for workers suffering
from black lung because we are extend-
ing the Black Lung Disability Trust
Fund. Right now, that is also—because
of a revenue source that was sort of
sunset—scheduled to be stopped, and
then the trust fund will dwindle down,
and those suffering from black lung
will also lose the protections that they
have. This American Miners Act not
only protects pensions and not only
protects folks who are having their
healthcare bankrupted by Westmore-
land but would extend the Black Lung
Disability Trust Fund that is so very,
very important.
The best news is that the bill is fully
paid for. We are not asking to increase
the deficit. We are not asking to in-
crease tax rates. The bill is fully paid
for. We would simply extend an exist-
ing tax to protect the Black Lung Dis-
ability Trust Fund, and then we would
utilize an existing source of revenue
that we used before—mine reclamation
funds that are currently oversubscribed
and are not being used to help backstop
healthcare needs.
So this is a bill that would do an
awful lot of good for an awful lot of
people, and we are not coming here just
asking without paying for it. We have
a solution on the table so that we can
pay for it.
My hope is that the body will come
together the same way we did in 2017 to
protect these hard-working people and
their families and their widows who
have done the hardest work that just
about anybody does in this country and
whose bodies have suffered as a result,
and they need to have us having their
back.
With that, I yield the floor.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, if I
could, first of all, thank my colleague
from Virginia, my dear friend Senator
KAINE. I just want to touch on one
thing before we have Senator CASEY
speak on behalf of all the coal miners
he represents in the State of Pennsyl-
vania.
On the Black Lung Fund, a lot of
people don’t know, the House of Rep-
resentatives basically, 2 years ago,
passed a bill reducing the fund from
$1.10 to 55 cents. I called over to my
friends and colleagues in the House,
and I said: You would think we don’t
need the money anymore because we
have cured black lung—but it is just
the contrary. We have more diseases
and more younger people getting black
lung, and I will tell you the reason
why.
When mining coal, you are cutting
through a lot of rock, and you get sili-
ca coming out from that. We are cut-
ting into more rock than ever before.
We have even more younger miners
contracting black lung. We need to
fund more now than ever before, and
this is not the time to cut it. That 55
cents a ton makes a difference between
solvency or not, curing people or the
Federal Government having to step in.
The coal miners have been proud to
pay their own way. They paid for their
pension. They paid for their
healthcare. They didn’t take money
home because when they negotiated,
this is how much stayed in the fund.
Basically, somebody received that
money, the benefit, but not the people
who worked for it. Now they are will-
ing to try to fix that with the coal they
mined from the abandoned mine land
money. That is all we are asking for.
We will take care of our own problems.
We are begging the majority leader
of this respected body to please put
this bill on the floor and let the body
vote on it because we have had good bi-
partisan support. Everybody respects
the person providing the energy who
protected this country, and that is all
we are asking for.
There is no one who has fought hard-
er and worked harder on this than Sen-
ator CASEY from Pennsylvania, and
that is another State that borders West
Virginia that we are proud of and are
very close with, and they have given so
much.
With that, I yield the floor to Sen-
ator CASEY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise
to discuss this urgent issue of pensions
and our legislative proposal to address
this looming crisis.
I commend and salute the work of
Senator MANCHIN, my colleague from
West Virginia, for his indefatigable
work on this. There are probably a few
other words I could use for his deter-
mination over time, and not just over
months but literally now over years, as
well as Senator KAINE’s, from Virginia,
and Senator BROWN’s, who will follow
me. We are grateful for this combina-
tion of States coming together to stand
up for workers.
We know this discussion on the floor
of the Senate takes place at a signifi-
cant time. The House Ways and Means
Committee just passed the bipartisan
Butch Lewis Act, H.R. 397, on the 10th
of July. The House is taking much
needed action, and it is long past time
that the U.S. Senate does the same.
In my home State, there is a whole
group of workers. Obviously, miners
are a big part of this, the Teamsters,
Bakery and Confectionery Workers, all
of whom, through no fault of their own,
are seeing their hard-earned pensions
threatened. Failure to act could result
in devastating economic consequences
to communities across both the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania as well as
throughout the Nation. Tens of thou-
sands of pensions of Pennsylvanians
could be at risk, including—and these
are just some of the numbers—11,831
coal miners and 21,460 Teamsters.
Despite the challenges ahead, the
good news is, we have bipartisan legis-
lation to deal with this pension crisis
through the legislation known as the
Butch Lewis Act. The bill creates a
loan program for troubled pensions. It
is a commonsense solution that brings
the public and private sectors together
to address this crisis.
We must also pass legislation so we
can address coal miner health and pen-
sion benefits. Senator MANCHIN, as I re-
ferred to earlier, has shown great lead-
ership throughout this process. We
want to thank all the Senators who are
with us today and others who are not
with us on the floor, necessarily, but
are with us by way of supporting this
legislation.
We have a long way to go and a
mountain to climb for several reasons.
There are a number of Senators around
this Chamber who, on a regular basis,
when a multinational corporation
needs help, will pull out all the stops.
They will overturn any stone. They
will surmount any barrier. They will
fight through any wall of opposition or
resistance. That is the same kind of
persistence and determination and re-
solve we need for workers—in my case,
whether it is a coal miner or a team-
ster or a bakery and confectionery
worker.
It is long past due that we bring the
same sense of urgency to the issues
that involve workers as some here
brought to corporate taxes. Just by
way of one example, we were debating
the 2017—November 2017 and December
2017 tax bill. My God, there were lobby-
ists all over town and people scurrying
back and forth to make sure the cor-
porate tax rate came down, to make
sure the rate a corporation was paying
was lowered substantially. In the end,
they got more than they asked for, in
my judgment. What was supposed to
flow from that was an abundance of
jobs, a rushing current of jobs, and
wage growth was supposed to come
from that legislation. Of course, it
didn’t. Some of us are right about our
prediction—a prediction that we would
not want to be right about, but we
were.
So if that kind of determination and
concerted action and then the legisla-
tive result that flowed from that can
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.044 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4894 July 17, 2019
be undertaken to help huge, multi-
national corporations, I think the same
effort should be undertaken on behalf
of workers who earned these pension
benefits.
This isn’t something extra. This isn’t
something new. This isn’t something
other than an earned benefit, and for
some of them, they earned it in the
most difficult way possible, by going
underneath the ground to mine coal
year after year and, in some cases, dec-
ade after decade.
Stephen Crane, the great novelist,
wrote an essay in the early 1900s or just
around the turn of the century, I
should say, about a coal mine in my
hometown of Scranton. He described
all of the horrors, all of the darkness.
He described the ways a miner could
die. He referred to it as the ‘‘hundred
perils’’—life-threatening. He described
the mine in a very moving way. He
talked about the mine being a place of
inscrutable darkness, a soundless place
of tangible loneliness—loneliness be-
cause you can’t see your hand in front
of your face and loneliness, of course, if
you were injured on the job, or if you
had an injury that debilitated you, or
if you, in fact, lost your life. Tens of
thousands of people lost their lives in
mines.
I know that is a long time ago. I
know we have made advancements, but
it is still hard work just as it is to do
the other jobs I mentioned, whether
you are a teamster or a bakery and
confectionery worker. Just pick your
particular work area or union.
So we have some work to do here,
and we are going to have to fight
through a lot, but we are grateful we
have some momentum and some sense
of urgency that may not have been
there only weeks ago.
With that, I will yield the floor to my
colleague from the State of Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. I thank Senator CASEY
for his work on behalf of workers dur-
ing his whole 13 years in the Senate
and his work especially for mine work-
ers and teamsters with the Butch
Lewis Act and with pension and
healthcare. That is so important.
Senator KAINE has been stalwart for
these retirees and particularly in
southwest Virginia, where he has
worked as Governor, and also Senator
MANCHIN who was speaking earlier.
We need to remind this body that
86,000 miners are facing a looming
threat of massive cuts to the pension
they have earned. What people in this
body don’t often understand is these
miners and their widows aren’t getting
rich from these pensions. These pen-
sions are $500 or $600 a month. Also
1,200 miners and their families can lose
their healthcare by the end of the year
because of the Westmoreland and Mis-
sion Coal bankruptcies.
The bankruptcy court can allow
these corporations to shed their liabil-
ities. That sounds familiar. So often
big companies go to court, and these
lawyers and judges don’t really under-
stand what collective bargaining is and
don’t understand the sacrifices these
workers made to earn these pensions.
Shedding their liabilities is a fancy
way of saying walk away from paying
miners the healthcare benefits they
earned.
Two years ago, we worked to save the
miners’ healthcare. We have to do it
again. We can’t leave these workers be-
hind just because of the date their
company filed for bankruptcy. We have
to make sure they don’t lose retire-
ment security on top of that.
All 86,000 UMW union mine workers
are facing crippling pension cuts. They
aren’t alone. The retirement security
of hundreds of thousands of teamsters
in Virginia and Ohio and Pennsylvania
and ironworkers in Cleveland and car-
penters in Dayton and Cincinnati—so
many retirees and so many workers’
pensions are at risk.
Congress tried to ignore these retir-
ees, but they fought back. Workers ral-
lied. They called, they wrote letters,
and they rallied outside the Capitol on
90-degree days in July. They rallied
outside the Capitol in 15-degree days in
February.
We have seen those Camo UMW T-
shirts around the Capitol. They are
persistent. They don’t give up. Many of
them are veterans. They left the mines
to serve their country. They went back
into the mines. Now, as they fought for
us, we need to fight for them.
It comes back to the dignity of work.
When work has dignity, we honor the
retirement and security people earn.
We honor work. We respect work. The
dignity of work is about their wages,
about their retirement, about their
healthcare. It is about safety in the
workplace. This is why I wear this pin.
It is a depiction of a canary in a bird-
cage. The mineworker took the canary
into the mines. The mineworker did
not always have a government that
stood with them to protect their safe-
ty. That is what the union did so many
times.
People in this town too often don’t
understand the collective bargaining
process. This town is overrun with lob-
byists up and down the hall and in Sen-
ator MCCONNELL’s office. Lobbyists
line up and get favors from the Repub-
lican leader. Never ever does organized
labor, never do workers get these same
kinds of favors when it comes to sup-
port like this.
With regard to collective bargaining,
what people don’t understand is that
the people give up their wages today to
put money aside for their future pen-
sions. We made progress with the bi-
partisan pensions committee. I thank
Senators PORTMAN and MANCHIN and all
the Members—Senator KAINE and
CASEY—all the Members of both parties
who put in months of work in good
faith on this.
I am committed to these miners. I
know my friend TIM KAINE is com-
mitted to these miners, to these work-
ers, to these small businesses. For
their success and their livelihood, they
depend on getting these pensions they
have earned.
We will continue to work for a bipar-
tisan solution. If you love this country,
you will fight for the people who make
it work—people like these
mineworkers.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. I suggest the absence of
a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
FACEBOOK CRYPTOCURRENCY
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, yester-
day the Banking Committee heard
from one of Facebook’s executives
about, if we can believe this—it almost
doesn’t seem possible—how Facebook
wants to create its own monopoly
money. That is right, after scandal
after scandal with Facebook, where
they betrayed the public trust, with
the damage they have done to jour-
nalism and the damage they have done
to democracy, the compromising and
betrayal of people’s privacy.
Again, believe it or not, even the
United Nations said what Facebook did
to contribute to the humanitarian dis-
aster in what we know as Burma,
Myanmar, where literally hundreds of
people died—the United Nations said
Facebook contributed to the genocide.
That almost doesn’t sound believable,
but they contributed to the genocide, a
U.N. report said, in that part of the
world.
Now, after scandal after scandal,
Facebook expects Americans to trust
them with their hard-earned pay-
checks. It is pretty breathtaking.
When you think about it, in this
body, you know what happens when
corporations want something. They al-
ways get it. With the leadership in this
body and with the White House looking
like a retreat for Wall Street execu-
tives and the big banks, they always
get what they want.
When have big corporations ever been
held accountable? Look how the major-
ity leader and President Trump treated
Wall Street banks. Of course Facebook
thinks they can make mess after mess,
they can refuse to clean it up, and they
face no consequences.
We know that big banks scam cus-
tomers and break laws. Not only do
they get away with it, they get re-
warded. Last year, as we know, this
Congress passed and President Trump
signed legislation rolling back laws
protecting working families from Wall
Street greed, as if Wall Street weren’t
doing well enough. They had record
profit and record executive compensa-
tion.
Remembering 10 years ago and what
happened with Wall Street—there is a
collective amnesia in this body. My
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.045 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4895
July 17, 2019
colleagues seem to forget what Wall
Street did to our country 10 years ago.
I have said this on the floor before,
and I will say it again: My ZIP Code in
Cleveland where Connie and I live is
44105. That ZIP Code had more fore-
closures in 2007 than any other ZIP
Code in the United States of America.
I still see the remnants of those fore-
closures—high levels of lead-based
paint, homes abandoned, property val-
ues going down. Yet this Congress and
President Trump want to do more for
Wall Street.
The big banks ask for weaker rules,
even though it put millions of families
at risk—job losses, the evisceration of
retirement plans, people losing their
jobs, people losing their homes. Presi-
dent Trump said: OK. Let’s do what the
banks want.
The year before that, Congress passed
and President Trump signed a $1.5 tril-
lion tax cut for corporations, big
banks, and the richest Americans.
Since the Republican tax bill passed,
corporations have moved jobs overseas.
They spent hundreds of billions of dol-
lars on stock buybacks because the ex-
ecutives apparently weren’t making
enough money with their record com-
pensation. Corporations have spent $1
trillion in these stock buybacks. Of the
eight companies with the most stock
buybacks last year, half of them were
on Wall Street.
The big banks and the big investment
houses have done very well with this
Trump economy. They have done very
well because of the goodies this body
continues to bestow on them.
One thing we also know is that Wall
Street can never get enough handouts.
They always want one more. Not too
long ago, a bank lobbyist said: ‘‘We
don’t want just a seat at the table, we
want the whole table.’’ That is so bra-
zen and arrogant. Unfortunately, this
Congress and this President seem to
want to give it to them.
They let banks haggle over their
stress test results. We require these
banks to take a stress test, but before
they take the test—imagine getting to
do this in high school or college. Before
you take the test, we will tell you a lit-
tle more about what will be on the
test.
They take away consumers’ right to
have their day in court when banks
scam them.
They go easy on foreign megabanks.
You could name them. So many of the
foreign banks have gotten their way so
often in this body and done damage to
our economy.
We gave them breaks in the rulings
that the Federal Reserve made. Last
month, we saw the Fed once again go
easy on Wall Street banks during their
annual stress test. They basically gave
them extra credit for even submitting
to these tests at all. What does that
mean for the giant banks? The Fed will
let them do even more stock buybacks.
The Fed ought to understand that
megabank CEOs are not playing T-ball,
where everyone gets a participation
trophy just for showing up; they are
playing with family’s lives.
We know all over the country what
happened to people’s retirement, what
happened to their jobs, what happened
to their homes. People in this town
may have collective amnesia and have
forgotten the financial crisis and hous-
ing crisis, but families who lost their
homes and jobs and retirement savings
and their college funds haven’t forgot-
ten what happened. This town has for-
gotten what happened 10 years ago, and
it could happen again.
The more we roll back these rules
and look the other way when corpora-
tions want to take big risks—not with
their money but with other people’s
money—the higher the chance one of
these big risks doesn’t pay off. You
know who pays the price. You remem-
ber who paid the price 10 years ago
when the economy tanked because of
Wall Street greed and Wall Street over-
reach. When Wall Street bets don’t pay
off, it is workers, families, taxpayers,
and people in my neighborhood who
pay the price. It is your money they
are gambling with.
Hard-working Americans face real
consequences when they break the law,
and so should Wall Street executives.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. President, this past weekend, my
wife Connie and I went to El Paso, to
the U.S.-Mexico border, to bear witness
to this humanitarian crisis. We met
with children and families coming to
our country to flee violence and perse-
cution. These are families just like our
own who only want a safe place for
their kids to lay their heads at night.
It underscored the inhumanity and
coldness of President Trump’s family
separation policy—something I still
can’t believe our country is doing. In
fact, the leader of our country is al-
most gleeful and bragging about this
family separation policy of taking
their children away from their parents.
We talked to one mother from Hon-
duras. She and her teenage son and 6-
year-old daughter were fleeing violent
gangs who already murdered her broth-
er. She choked back tears as she told
her story. She arrived in the United
States and was sent back to Juarez,
Mexico, where she and her children
slept outdoors on rocks and were given
no access to even basic hygiene. She
told us how hard it was to see her
daughter cry, that ‘‘it was very hard
for me seeing her treated as if she was
a criminal.’’ We are talking about a 6-
year-old little girl. That is something
no Member of this body would stand for
if it were their child, but it happens to
be a child from somewhere else who
wants to be able to live a decent, safe
life.
This story is a reminder of why the
policy the Trump administration an-
nounced yesterday makes no sense for
the American people and is so dan-
gerous for those families. The Presi-
dent wants to require refugees to apply
for asylum in the first country they
pass through. For refugees like this
mother, that country would be Guate-
mala, but people are fleeing Guatemala
too.
I talked to one volunteer at Annun-
ciation House, the shelter we visited
that takes in refugees after they are
released from CBP custody. She said
their numbers at the shelter were down
recently. That has her worried because
she knows that when families make it
to the Annunciation House, they will
be safe and well cared for. The staff are
overwhelmingly volunteers, people in
their churches and neighborhoods who
want to help their fellow human
beings. Now she is terrified that even
more families are trapped in Juarez
and other dangerous cities.
It is despicable how little compassion
the President and his administration
have. It is mind-boggling. It is not who
we are as a country. It is not what peo-
ple in Ohio think we should do. Yet
this government thinks it is proper to
separate children from their families.
As we were in El Paso, throughout
the day, what went over and over in my
mind was Matthew 25: When I was hun-
gry, you fed me. When I was thirsty,
you gave me drink. When I was sick,
you visited me. When I was a stranger,
you welcomed me.
I have read a lot of translations of
that, and some translations say: When
I was thirsty, you gave me drink. When
I was hungry, you fed me. What you did
for the least of these, you did for me.
There are other translations that I
like more than that: When I was hun-
gry, you fed me. When I was thirsty,
you gave me drink. When I was a
stranger, you visited me. What you did
for those less important, you did for
me.
I have read many translations, but do
you know what translation I have
never read? When I was hungry, you fed
me. When I was thirsty, you gave me
drink. When I was in prison, you vis-
ited me. When I was a stranger, you
welcomed me but only if I had the
proper paperwork.
That is not in Matthew 25. Only this
administration that splits up families
will say: When I was a stranger, you
welcomed me but only if I had the
proper paperwork.
These are families whose lives are in
danger. They are victims of drug vio-
lence and sexual violence. They are
people who came hundreds of miles—
not because they want so much to
come to America, but they want to get
away from the violence and the
chances of death.
As I said, I met a mother and her son
and her daughter. Her brother was
murdered by these gangs. She came
north. And President Trump, having no
empathy, not caring about other
human beings—especially if they look
like they might be from Honduras or
Guatemala or El Salvador—calls them
names. He says: Go back to the coun-
tries you live in. Whether you call it
racist or not, it is simply inhumane.
Despite seeing the inhumanity of this
administration’s policies—when we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.047 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4896 July 17, 2019
were there, we weren’t even allowed to
see the worst. Frankly, government
employees who were there were mostly
doing their best. But the people who
make these decisions—the people in
the White House, the people at Mar-a-
Lago, the people who don’t have any
idea of what people can see—they
didn’t want us to see the worst of the
worst. They were denying me, as a rep-
resentative of 12 million people in my
State—they don’t want people to see
what they are doing to these kids. It is
troubling because Ohio tax dollars are
supporting them. It makes you wonder
what else the administration is hiding.
Despite all that, so many parts of
this trip were inspiring. We saw the
passion and dedication of advocacy
groups. So many people in Texas, in
Ohio, in Iowa, in Minnesota, and in Wy-
oming had traveled on their vacation
time to these border communities to
try to help these refugees, people
whose lives are in danger. They were
trying to help feed them and clothe
them and visit with them and heal
them. They were trying to help because
they know our government hasn’t.
They know our government—President
Trump and the people around him—
have abandoned them.
I saw the Border Network for Human
Rights shining a light on migrants’
mistreatment and abuse to hold our
government accountable. We saw the
generosity and kindness of the volun-
teers at Annunciation House. All of
those advocates and volunteers rep-
resent the best of American values.
I remember seeing a bus of refugees
who arrived at Annunciation House
holding babies and children, smiling
and waving at us. You could see the re-
lief on their faces because they saw
people who remembered: When I was a
stranger, you welcomed me. They saw
American citizens who love this coun-
try, Americans who understand our
values, Americans who know we are a
nation of immigrants. Those children
knew they were welcomed. Their fami-
lies knew their children were safe.
We saw the innocence of those chil-
dren who find joy through play even at
the darkest times, after witnessing
horrors many of us can only imagine.
Connie held a smiling baby. I picked
up a Wiffle Ball bat and handed it to
one of the children, and then I picked
up a ball. I was told this little boy had
probably never held a baseball bat be-
cause in Guatemala and Honduras and
El Salvador, they mostly play soccer. I
pitched to him, and he was kind of a
natural. It is a reminder of our com-
mon humanity—something I hope my
colleagues will keep in mind as we
think about and actually fix our immi-
gration system.
One place where we ought to be able
to start is on something so many of us
in both parties agree on—that we have
to find a solution for the Dreamers who
are American in every sense but the
paperwork.
Let me tell you a story. I was in To-
ledo, OH, 2 months ago. I met a young
woman who is probably in her
midtwenties. She is married with a
small child. She works full time. She
has been in this country since she was
4. Her parents brought her from Cen-
tral America. She doesn’t remember
Central America; she was 4. She is from
Toledo, not from Guatemala anymore.
Her parents speak Spanish. She speaks
Spanish at home, but in every other
way, she is as American as just about
anybody else in Toledo. She said that
she and her husband have one car. She
goes to work. She drops him off, and
she takes the car to work and then
picks him up at the end of the day. She
said: Senator, when I go to work every
day, I go outside and I check my turn
signal and I check my brake lights.
When I stop at a stop sign, I count to
three because I am terrified I am going
to get picked up for a traffic violation
and deported.
She works hard. She pays her taxes.
She does what we ask her to do. She is
active in her church. She does all the
things that Italian and French immi-
grants coming to the United States
have done.
In fact, I was talking to a gentleman
who works downstairs in this body. He
works in the Senate. He has worked
here for 40 years. He came from Italy
when he was 10. He said he was discour-
aged and unhappy about President
Trump’s comments about sending them
back to where they came from. He said:
When I was a kid, my parents were
Italian. Their English isn’t as good as
mine. I was 10 years old. People told us
to go back where we came from.
That is just wrong.
I hope my colleagues will keep in
mind the comments from a young ac-
tivist in El Paso, Senaida Navar. She is
a Dreamer. She was raised in El Paso.
She is a faculty member at the Univer-
sity of Texas at El Paso. She has dedi-
cated her life to fighting for immigrant
families. She has been a Dreamer for
years. She said: ‘‘I don’t know what it
means to be without anxiety. That is
not a dignified way to live.’’ She is al-
ways worried. She is worried like that
young woman in Toledo.
We share a common human dignity.
It is despicable that this administra-
tion tries to rob people of that. I hope
my colleagues think about that. We
know the way we solve our complex
immigration problem isn’t by locking
up families and children in cages. It is
not by tearing apart families or by
throwing out hard-working, law-abid-
ing teachers and workers and students
and families of servicemembers. Many
of these Dreamers end up in the mili-
tary. They have known no other home
but America. We can’t abandon our
values—the same values that have
made the United States a beacon of
hope around the world for generations.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I
come to the floor this afternoon with a
number of my colleagues because we
are very concerned about the lack of
legislating that is happening here in
the Senate, particularly on the issue of
climate change.
As this poster shows, it has been 76
days since the House passed H.R. 9,
which is the Climate Action Now Act.
It is legislation that would prevent the
President from using funds to with-
draw the United States from the Paris
climate agreement. We also have a
Senate proposal, which is bipartisan
legislation that I have sponsored,
called the International Climate Ac-
countability Act. It has been cospon-
sored by 46 Senators. Yet the majority
leader has refused to bring these bills
to the floor for a debate.
It didn’t used to be this way. Even in
my time in the Senate, it didn’t used
to be this way. The Senate used to take
up important issues, put them on the
floor for substantive debate, and at the
end of the day, work to pass legislation
to improve the lives of Americans.
Sadly, what we see now is that the
Senate is turning into a legislative
graveyard. Unfortunately, the Inter-
national Climate Accountability Act is
one of several proposals that the ma-
jority leader wishes to bury. Yet, with-
out a doubt, climate change is the
greatest environmental challenge the
world has ever faced.
At the end of last year, the U.S.
Global Change Research Program re-
leased its ‘‘Fourth National Climate
Assessment.’’ This report makes it
abundantly clear that every American
is affected by climate change and that
the threat it poses will get worse over
time unless we take action.
I want to be clear that climate
change is not just an environmental
issue; it affects our public health, and
it affects our economy. In New Hamp-
shire, we understand this all too well.
Rising temperatures are shortening our
fall foliage season. They are disrupting
maple syrup production. They are af-
fecting our ski industry and
snowmobiling industry. We are seeing
stresses on our fisheries. Our trout is
moving farther north in streams. We
see an increase in insect-borne dis-
eases. Lyme disease is on the rise in
New Hampshire and throughout New
England. Our moose population is down
40 percent, and other wildlife is being
affected. All of these changes are tied
to the effects of climate change.
A few months ago, I met with mem-
bers of the New England Water Envi-
ronment Association to discuss the
enormous effect climate change is hav-
ing on our water infrastructure. Rising
temperatures and increased rainfall
brought on by climate change make
flooding more frequent and rainstorms
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.048 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4897
July 17, 2019
more intense. We are seeing that now
on our gulf coast, where we have seen
20 inches of rain in parts of Louisiana.
Americans are witnessing this first-
hand across the country with the his-
toric flooding and with the tornadoes
that have swept across the South and
the Midwest. These extreme weather
events not only endanger families and
homes and businesses, but they in-
crease the strain on our Nation’s over-
burdened water systems. They take
water treatment plants offline. This
means debris is discharged into our riv-
ers and streams, which affects our
water quality.
These extreme weather events are
particularly dangerous for coastal
communities. I see my colleague from
Maine is here, Senator KING. They face
this in Maine with its long coastline.
In New Hampshire, we have 18 miles of
coastline, but we still see it at our
coastline.
Accelerated sea level rise, which is
primarily driven by climate change, is
worsening tidal flooding conditions and
imperiling coastal homes and busi-
nesses.
According to a 2018 study from the
Union of Concerned Scientists, pro-
jected tidal flooding in the United
States will put as many as 311,000
coastal homes that are collectively
valued at $117 billion at risk of chronic
flooding within the next 30 years. That
is the lifespan of a typical mortgage.
By the end of the century, the report
estimates that 2.4 million homes and
107,000 commercial properties that are
currently worth more than $1 trillion
will be at risk for chronic flooding.
This includes properties in towns like
Hampton Beach, which is located in
New Hampshire’s Seacoast Region.
For those who haven’t had a chance
to visit Hampton Beach, it is beautiful.
It is a perfect vacation destination. It
is a barrier island town with the Hamp-
ton River on one side of the city and
the ocean on the other. Unfortunately,
this makes Hampton Beach one of the
State’s most at-risk towns from rising
sea levels.
In this photograph, we can see the
impact of rising sea levels. This was
taken in November of 2017. We see what
is happening. All of these homes should
not be underwater here. Yet that is
what we are seeing.
A 2019 report from Columbia Univer-
sity and the First Street Foundation
found that Hampton Beach lost $7.9
million in home value due to tidal
flooding between 2005 and 2017. In total,
increased tidal flooding has cost New
Hampshire homeowners $15 million in
lost property value. This is just in re-
cent years, and the problem is only
going to get worse.
The impact of climate change will
get worse if we don’t act now to reduce
harmful greenhouse gas emissions. I
am proud that in New Hampshire, we
understand the need for climate action.
We have implemented policies that re-
duce carbon emissions, that help us
transition to a more energy-efficient,
clean economy, but New Hampshire
can’t do this alone, and the United
States can’t do this alone. Inter-
national cooperation is key to reducing
global greenhouse gas emissions. That
is why the Paris Agreement is so crit-
ical in mitigating the worst effects of
climate change.
With a delegation from the Senate, I
had the opportunity to attend the 2015
U.N. climate summit, and we partici-
pated in discussions that led to the
Paris climate accord. During the sum-
mit, we were impressed by the leader-
ship and the determination that was
shown by the United States to encour-
age other nations to reach ambitious
emissions reduction goals. Unfortu-
nately, when President Trump an-
nounced his intention to withdraw
from the Paris Agreement, the United
States forfeited this leadership to
other countries.
In the absence of leadership from the
White House, the majority leader
should allow the Senate to consider the
International Climate Accountability
Act, which would keep the United
States in the Paris Agreement. Let’s
take up the bill that has been sent over
by the House. Let’s take up the Senate
bill. Let’s bring this bill to the floor,
and let’s have a debate. If people don’t
support it, they can debate it, but we
should be talking about this. The
threat to New Hampshire and to this
country is in doubt, and until we act, it
is only going to get worse.
We have a number of our colleagues
who would like to come to the floor
and speak to this issue, and I am
pleased that Senator KING from Maine,
my colleague, is here to talk about
these impacts.
Yet, before my colleagues speak, I
ask unanimous consent to show a ban-
ner that was delivered to my office by
the Moms Clean Air Force.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Let me just show ev-
eryone this. This was made by the
mothers who came to our office. What
they have written is: ‘‘Please protect
the families of New Hampshire from air
pollution and climate change. Moms
Clean Air Force.’’ You are able to see
all of the folks who were with the dele-
gation and who visited my office to
sign this because everyone is concerned
about what the impact is going to be
on their families and on their commu-
nities if we don’t address climate
change.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Mr. KING. Mr. President, I am happy
to join my colleague from New Hamp-
shire and other colleagues tonight to
talk about one of the most serious
threats to ever face this Nation or, in
fact, this world.
A few years ago, Tom Brokaw, the
television news anchor, wrote a won-
derful book called ‘‘The Greatest Gen-
eration.’’ He was writing about the
generation of our parents and grand-
parents who fought in World War II,
who paid off the debt from World War
II, who built the Interstate Highway
System—who, by the way, paid for it—
and who built the greatest economy
the world has ever seen. That was the
‘‘greatest generation.’’
The characteristic of that generation
was that of meeting their responsibil-
ities. It was not of avoiding problems
but of meeting them head-on and es-
tablishing for the world and for this
country an example of governance and
of the responsible dealing with issues
and problems the likes of which we
have not seen in our lifetimes.
If Tom Brokaw were writing another
book today about us, it would be called
‘‘The Lousiest Generation.’’ We are the
ones who have built up an unconscion-
able debt for our children. We cut taxes
in the middle of a war in 2005. It was
the first time I had been able to find in
world history when that had ever hap-
pened. We have given ourselves tax
cuts and not paid the bill, and we are
passing on this enormous $22 trillion
debt to our children.
None of us on our deathbed, when our
children are standing around, would
lean up and say: Here is the credit
card, kids. I have run it up to the max.
You can now pay for it. Yet that is ex-
actly what we are doing collectively—
the lousiest generation, the one that
hasn’t paid its bills.
Infrastructure. We have allowed our
infrastructure to fall to pieces. It is the
infrastructure that was given to us by
our parents, that was paid for—the
bridges, the roads, the railroads, and
the airports. Now we have one of the
poorest infrastructure situations in the
world. It is embarrassing to go to a
small country somewhere else in the
world and walk into an airport that
makes ours look old and falling apart.
So we haven’t kept up with the infra-
structure, and that is a debt that we
are passing on to our children, just as
real as the national debt.
Finally, we are facing a known, real,
unquestionable crisis in terms of the
effect on the climate, and this is some-
thing that we are shamefully passing
on to our children. They are the ones
who are going to have to deal with the
consequences that we will not face.
They are the ones who are going to
have to pay the bills, who are going to
have to shore up the infrastructure,
who are going to have to respond to the
drastic changes in the climate not only
here but around the world, and we are
doing nothing.
What will it take? What will it take
for us to meet this responsibility?
What is it going to take?
Well, OK, let’s go down a list. Maybe
it will take scientific data that dem-
onstrates the level of CO2 that we have
put into the atmosphere.
I don’t seem to have a chart. I don’t
need a chart. For millions of years, CO2
has varied between 180 and 280 parts per
million. People say: Well, it varies over
time. This is nothing new. No, between
180 and 280 is the variation until the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.049 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4898 July 17, 2019
last 50 to 75 years, when it has become
a hockey stick. We are now at over 400
parts per million, the highest it has
been in 3 million years, and, by the
way, the last time it was at 400 parts
per million, the oceans were 60 feet
higher.
CO2 in the atmosphere is our respon-
sibility. It didn’t come from volcanoes.
It came from the consumption of fossil
fuel, which developed and built the
wonderful economy that we have and
the economy around the world. Nobody
can gainsay that.
The question is, Now that we are see-
ing the consequences, don’t we have a
responsibility to do something about
it? Has there been a gigantic increase
in CO2 in the atmosphere? Check. Yes.
Unquestionably.
No. 2, how about Arctic ice? Here we
are. In the last 30 years, two-thirds of
the Arctic ice has disappeared—two-
thirds.
I was at a conference this morning on
the Arctic. The Arctic Ocean is open
for the first time in human history.
The conference was about shipping and
mineral exploration and Native peoples
losing their habitat and their way of
life. Two-thirds of the Arctic ice is
gone in 25 years. This is a place that
has been covered with ice for thousands
of years—as long as we have any mem-
ory, but now the Arctic ice is going.
Every time I see a prediction of
where it is going to be in 10 years, lo
and behold, it is there in 2 or 3 years.
It is opening up. That is telling us
something.
Is there an indication from the Arc-
tic ice that something drastic is hap-
pening to our climate? Yes. Check that
box.
No. 3 is the increased intensity of
fires. We have seen the most intense
wildfires in this country in the last 10
years that we have ever seen—more
acreage, more intensity, more lives
lost, more property lost. This is caused
by drought and by changes in the cli-
mate, all wrought by our activity.
Increase in fires and wildfires?
Check.
Sea level rise. Here is the background
on the sea level. We tend to think of
the sea level as being a fixed quantity.
We walk out in the ocean, and it al-
ways looks pretty much the way it is,
whether it is off the Maine coast or the
New Hampshire coast.
Well, it turns out that back here,
24,000 years ago, when the glaciers were
covering most of North America, the
sea was 390 feet shallower than it is
today. Chesapeake Bay was dry land. It
was 390 feet shallower than it is today.
Then, the glaciers melted, and the
sea level started to rise. This is an in-
teresting period about 14,000 years ago
called the meltwater pulse 1A.
This drastic rise in sea level is about
a foot a decade. That is what is pre-
dicted for the next century.
Oh, it could never happen. A foot a
decade? You must be crazy.
It happened. We know that it hap-
pened.
Now, here is why we aren’t paying at-
tention. The last 6,000 years, it has
been pretty flat. It has been pretty
level. The sea level has plateaued, in
effect, and, therefore, that happens to
be recorded human history, that 6,000
years. So we think that is just where
the ocean has always been.
But do you know what? The last rem-
nant of the glaciers are in Greenland
and Antarctica, and they are going.
They are going. There is 20 feet of sea
level rise in the Greenland ice sheet
and 212 feet of sea level rise stored in
the Antarctic ice sheet, and they are
going.
I have been to Greenland. You can
see it. The Jakobshavn Glacier has re-
treated as much in the last 10 years as
it retreated in the prior 100 years.
The only thing slower than a glacier,
by the way, is the U.S. Congress. We
make glaciers look like they are mov-
ing fast, and, in fact, the Jakobshavn
Glacier is moving fast.
Sea level rise is happening. In Nor-
folk, VA, they have seen a foot and a
half in the last decade. They are having
sunny day floods. They are having
sunny day floods in Miami. They are
spending millions of dollars to build up
their roads.
People say dealing with climate
change is too expensive. Not dealing
with it is too expensive. In not dealing
with it, the expense is going to be as-
tronomical.
By the way, if you talk about sea
level in Norfolk, VA, it is a national se-
curity risk. With the number of bases
that we have around the world that are
at or near sea level, it is going to be an
enormous task and a very expensive
one to protect those assets.
There is another national security
issue involved in this that we are ig-
noring, and that is the displacement of
peoples. During the Syrian civil war,
there were 4 to 6 million Syrian refu-
gees. A few came here, not many. Most
went to Western Europe, and, as we
know, that refugee flow turned the pol-
itics of Western Europe upside-down.
Call it 5 million people.
The estimates for refugees from cli-
mate change over the next 100 years is
between 200 and 400 million people.
Imagine what that is going to do to the
geopolitics of this world—200 million
people on the march, looking for water,
looking for a place that is habitable,
looking for relief from drought, from
fires. This is a national security
threat.
Is it a national security threat? Yes.
Check that box.
What is it going to take? What is it
going to take?
Intense storms. We don’t need to tell
people about the intensity of storms.
We have seen them. We have lived
through them. I once made a joke in
Maine that I am 300 years old, and
somebody said: Why? I said: Because
according to the news, I have lived
through three storms of the century.
We keep having storms of the cen-
tury or 500-year storms, and they are
happening more and more frequently.
The heat. Nine out of 10 of the hot-
test years on record occurred in the
last 15 years. This past June was the
hottest June since records were kept—
the hottest June since records were
kept.
Now, there is a difference between
weather and climate. I understand
that, and I am not going to say that
the heat wave that the Midwest is suf-
fering this weekend is a reflection of
climate change. It may or may not be.
Weather is what happens day-to-day.
Climate is what happens in the long
term, and we know that we have al-
ready increased global climate by
about 1.5 degrees Celsius. In many
cases, it is causing irreversible dam-
age.
When we get to 2 degrees Celsius,
which we are headed for, it is going to
be catastrophic for coral, for farms, for
animals, and for people.
Species are already on the move.
Senator SHAHEEN mentioned the ocean.
There are the lobsters in Maine. There
used to be a vigorous lobster fishery in
Massachusetts and Rhode Island. It is
essentially gone now, and the lobsters
are in Maine, which is a mainstay of
our economy. It is a $1.5 billion a year
business. The lobsters are moving
north and east. Why? Because the Gulf
of Maine is heating faster than 99 per-
cent of the areas of the world. The only
place heating faster than the Gulf of
Maine is the Arctic, and those lobsters
are doing what any animal does. They
seek out more hospitable climate.
Climate. This isn’t academic. These
aren’t predictions. This is something
you can see. The people on the water in
Maine know it is happening. The
woodsmen know it is happening be-
cause they are seeing different species
of trees. Bugs are moving farther
north. Ticks are a huge problem in
Northern New England and places
where they weren’t before. This isn’t
something that is academic.
What is it going to take?
One of the things that the Senator
from New Hampshire talked about is—
and I think it is important to empha-
size because I hear this sometimes—
why should we do this? It is happening
everywhere in the world.
Yes, that is why the Paris climate
accord was so important. It wasn’t
mandatory, but it was a set of goals,
and the entire world was engaged. Now
there is the entire world but one—us.
We are out. We are outliers. We have
lost our voice. We have lost our influ-
ence. We have lost our leadership posi-
tion on one of the most important
challenges faced by this or any genera-
tion. Yes, we haven’t met our respon-
sibilities as our parents and our grand-
parents did.
On December 1, 1862, Abraham Lin-
coln came to the House Chamber and
spoke about the crisis of the Civil War.
The Congress didn’t get it. They were
doing politics as usual, and President
Lincoln was trying to move them from
the lethargy of the legislative process
into the emergency and the urgency of
the Civil War.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.051 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4899
July 17, 2019
He said two things toward the end of
that speech that I think are profoundly
instructive for us today. The first is
how to deal with this change. And this
is a change. This is new. I understand
that, and dealing with change is dif-
ficult.
Abraham Lincoln uttered what I
think are the most profound words
about change that I have ever encoun-
tered. Here is what Abraham Lincoln
said:
The dogmas of the quiet past, are inad-
equate to the stormy present. The occasion
is piled high with difficulty, and we must
rise—with the occasion. As our case is new,
so we must think anew, and act anew.
And here is the punch line:
We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we
shall save our country.
‘‘We must disenthrall ourselves,’’ and
that means to think in new and dif-
ferent ways, to see reality as it is, ‘‘and
then we shall save our country’’ and, in
this in case, the world.
The other admonition from Lincoln
that day, which I think is very impor-
tant for us, puts the responsibility di-
rectly on us right here. He was talking
to Members of Congress.
He said:
Fellow-citizens, we cannot escape history.
We of this Congress and this administration,
will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No
personal significance, or insignificance, can
spare one or another of us. The fiery trial
through which we pass——
Of course he was talking about the
Civil War, and we are talking about a
fiery trial of our generation.
The fiery trial through which we pass, will
light us down, in honor or dishonor, to the
latest generation.
The fiery trial through which we pass will
light us down, in honor or dishonor, to the
latest generation.
I want to meet this responsibility. I
want this Congress to be remembered,
as we will be, either way, but I want
this Congress to be remembered as peo-
ple who met the fiery trial, who met
our responsibility, who thought about
others more than ourselves and made a
difference in the life of this country
and the world.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise
with my colleagues to talk about this
urgent issue that faces us: climate
change.
Climate disruption is an existential
threat to our planet—an existential
threat. Scientists recognize this, so do
the American people, and so does the
international community. One hundred
ninety-four countries and the European
Union have signed the Paris Agree-
ment, and so did the United States.
Quite frankly, we shouldn’t even
have to argue this anymore, but for
those who still don’t see the evidence
of climate change, it is all around us: a
warming climate; recordbreaking hur-
ricanes off the Atlantic, the Gulf of
Mexico, and in the Caribbean; unprece-
dented flooding in the Midwest; Native
villages in Alaska actually falling into
the sea; and drought and the most se-
vere wildfires in the West we have ever
seen.
This is from a 2003 fire near the Taos
Pueblo in New Mexico. We in New Mex-
ico are on pins and needles every fire
season now. We don’t know what dis-
aster will hit us. We know this climate
catastrophe is caused by human activ-
ity. Report after report tells us we
don’t have any time to waste; that we
need to act now.
Even this administration’s most re-
cent climate analysis finds that global
warming ‘‘is transforming where and
how we live and presents growing chal-
lenges to human health and the quality
of life, the economy, and the natural
systems that support us.’’ The report
concludes we must act now ‘‘to avoid
substantial damages to the U.S. econ-
omy, environment, and human health
and well-being over the coming dec-
ades.’’
That is coming from an administra-
tion of a climate change-denying Presi-
dent. Yet this administration has
slashed and burned every protection,
program, and agreement aimed at com-
bating climate change it can find, from
the Clean Power Plan to methane con-
trol regulations, to the Paris Agree-
ment. I can tell you who in this Con-
gress is the administration’s No. 1 ac-
complice: the majority leader of the
Senate. The leader’s legislative grave-
yard is littered with legislation the
American people want and deserve,
from improving healthcare to reform-
ing our democracy, to commonsense
measures to prevent gun violence.
Climate change threatens the land,
the lives, and the livelihoods of home-
owners, small businesses, farmers,
ranchers, fishers, and so many others
all across the Nation. The majority
leader’s refusal to take up climate ac-
tion is about as bad as congressional
malfeasance gets.
In May, the House of Representatives
passed the first major climate legisla-
tion in nearly a decade—the Climate
Action Now Act. H.R. 9 aims to de-
crease greenhouse gas emissions by
about one-quarter by 2025. The bill en-
sures the United States stays in the
Paris Agreement.
This bill is not extreme, but it does
respond to the dire situation we face.
The Senate should debate this bill and
pass it, but we will not. We all know
the majority leader will continue to
stand in its way.
Due to this negligence and inaction,
States are filling the void and taking it
upon themselves to act. My home State
of New Mexico passed legislation this
year aimed at transitioning to 100 per-
cent carbon-free electricity. Our larg-
est utility says they can do this by
2040. It is an approach that is con-
sistent with the renewable electricity
standard bill I introduced last month.
That legislation is designed to achieve
at least 50 percent renewable elec-
tricity nationwide in 15 years, putting
the United States on a path for a zero
carbon power sector by 2050.
The fact is, no American is immune
from the threats of climate change,
and many of our most underrep-
resented and vulnerable communities
are at the greatest risk. For example,
the most recent National Climate As-
sessment finds that Tribes and indige-
nous peoples are impacted dispropor-
tionately and uniquely. Many Native
people’s way of life is intimately tied
to the land and water. These natural
resources—that they have depended on
for hundreds or even thousands of
years—are being disrupted in ways that
upend their communities. Their sub-
sistence, their cultural practices, their
sacred sites are all being threatened.
Look at the proximity of this fire to
the Taos Pueblo. It is not only sacred
to the Taos people, but it is a UNESCO
World Heritage Site.
Last week, Senator SCHATZ and I
wrote to American Indian, Alaska Na-
tive, and Native Hawaiian leaders seek-
ing their input on how climate change
is affecting their communities. We
want to foster a dialogue about what
actions Congress and Federal agencies
should take to mitigate the impacts.
I am the vice chairman of the Indian
Affairs Committee. Senator SCHATZ is
the chair of the Special Committee on
the Climate Crisis, and we were joined
by all Democratic Senators on the In-
dian Affairs Committee. This effort
should have been bipartisan—climate
change is blind to political party—but
it wasn’t because too many Republican
members just follow President Trump
and the majority leader, killing any-
thing aimed at progress.
The majority leader jokes that he is
the grim reaper, sounding the death
knell on legislation, but climate
change is no laughing matter and nei-
ther is access to healthcare for mil-
lions of Americans, or our broken cam-
paign finance system, or the safety of
American schoolchildren.
The Senate must do its duty to the
American people and tackle these most
pressing problems. This does not mean
rubberstamping legislation sent to us
by the House. The Senate has a storied
tradition of debate and compromise.
Let’s return to that tradition, have a
real climate debate, and pass some real
bipartisan solutions.
We all came to the Senate to solve
problems—problems like climate
change. We didn’t come here to spend
time in a legislative graveyard. We
don’t want to be a place where good
ideas come to die.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, Leader
MCCONNELL may, in fact, be proud that
he has turned the Senate floor into a
legislative graveyard, but that doesn’t
mean we Senators have abandoned our
effort to make this body work for the
American people.
Today the special committee on the
climate crisis held its very first hear-
ing, where we heard from five mayors
from cities across the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.052 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4900 July 17, 2019
They told our committee that the aver-
age temperature in Atlanta has already
increased 2 degrees since 1980; that 3 of
St. Paul’s 10 biggest floods ever re-
corded have happened in the last 10
years. So it is clear to them that cli-
mate change is not something that will
happen eventually, in 5 or 10 or 20
years. It is happening now. It is hap-
pening in realtime.
That is why these mayors are not
waiting for Leader MCCONNELL, or for
the Trump administration, or anyone
else to start doing something about it.
Honolulu, St. Paul, Pittsburgh, At-
lanta, Portland and cities and towns
across the Nation are working to tran-
sition to 100 percent clean energy.
Atlanta is converting an abandoned
quarry into a reservoir to increase the
city’s emergency drinking water sup-
ply. Portland, OR, has designated more
than $50 million for a green jobs and
healthy homes initiative.
The experience of these mayors
stands in contrast to some of the rhet-
oric we hear on the Senate floor and
elsewhere about how climate action is
somehow economically unwise.
The Portland mayor, Ted Wheeler,
pointed out that his city’s investments
in reducing carbon emissions are the
very things that make people want to
live in Portland. He said in his testi-
mony that ‘‘failing to take meaningful
action to address climate change is bad
for the economy.’’
That is why Senate Democrats are
not going to wait for Republican col-
leagues—because the cost of climate
inaction is so much higher than the
cost of action. The damage that is
being done to our cities, our farmers,
our fisheries—and the risks that are
threatening our workers, our small
businesses, our financial industry, and
our taxpayers—are too high for us to
wait any longer. The benefits of action
are way higher than the cost of inac-
tion.
The Pittsburgh mayor, William
Peduto, said today that if you want to
turn a coal miner into an environ-
mentalist, then give them a paycheck.
If you want to turn a coal miner into
an environmentalist, then give them a
paycheck.
Hawaii isn’t a coal mining State, but
his words rang true to me because they
illustrate the basic point, which is that
climate action can, should, and will
work for everybody.
So we are not going to let Majority
Leader MCCONNELL stop us from taking
action. He is certainly slowing us
down, but he is not going to stop us.
Over the coming months, the Senate
Democrats’ special committee on the
climate crisis will establish the predi-
cate for climate action. Through hear-
ings both in Congress and out in the
field, we are going to build the record
and the coalitions needed to move for-
ward.
We are also going to keep an open
door for our Republican colleagues to
join us. There is a way to address the
climate crisis that is consistent with
conservative principles. Senator
WHITEHOUSE and I have introduced a
carbon pricing bill that aligns with tra-
ditional conservative principles and
has the support of Republicans outside
of the U.S. Senate, but as long as Lead-
er MCCONNELL keeps standing in the
way of the Senate doing anything, as
long as he has turned this body into a
legislative graveyard—not just on cli-
mate but on healthcare, on prescrip-
tion drug costs, on the cruelty shown
to children and families on the south-
ern border of the United States—then
we are going to have to find other ways
to act without it.
All of this stuff should be bipartisan,
and one day it again will be, but right
now we cannot wait. We will not wait.
The severity of the climate crisis and
the urgency for action are just too
great.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I join
my colleagues in bringing up the chal-
lenges of climate change and our re-
sponsibility to do something about it.
Climate change is real. It is putting
our communities at risk. Our activities
here on Earth are affecting climate
change, and we can do something about
it. By reducing carbon emissions, we
can make a real difference in the tra-
jectory of the catastrophic impact of
climate change. I just want to give a
couple examples.
Last Monday, we had record flash
flooding in this region. In less than 1
hour, we had 1 month’s worth of rain.
That is becoming typical as a result of
climate change. In our region, we saw
streets that were flooded, sinkholes
that developed, water pouring into our
Metro stations, and roads that were lit-
erally ripped apart.
This shows one major road in Poto-
mac, MD—not very far from here—that
is critically important for a commu-
nity to be connected. The road was de-
stroyed by the record rainfall during
that period of time.
We had CSX and Amtrak put high-
speed restrictions on the rail service.
In Baltimore, we had 1.3 million gal-
lons of sewage from the Jones Falls
river flow into the Inner Harbor, which
produced a sight in the Inner Harbor of
Baltimore that is truly regrettable.
This photo I think shows beautiful
downtown Baltimore. It doesn’t look
very beautiful. That was just this past
Monday and was as a result of the high
amount of water flow and the inability
of our sewage treatment facilities to
treat that amount of runoff. We are
just not prepared for it. It is another
example of why we need to act.
We need to act now. Climate change
is here. The catastrophic impacts are
here, and we can do something about
it.
Let me just make a couple of sugges-
tions. We need to upgrade our
stormwater systems in this country.
We have a 21st-century problem with
20th-century infrastructure. It can’t
handle it. We need to invest in adapta-
tion and deal with the realities of the
new weather systems we are con-
fronting every day.
Yes, we have to act on climate
change. As I said, it is real. Our activi-
ties are impacting it, and we could do
something about it. There are many
examples I could give that are affect-
ing our lives. I have already shared
some about some water. We have
wildfires in the West. We have extreme
weather conditions throughout. We
have unprecedented concentration and
frequency of rainfall in the mid-Atlan-
tic, driven by climate change.
Studies have shown that tropical
storms move more slowly, with much
more precipitation. We saw that with
Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in 2017 and
Florence in 2018. All those were slower
moving hurricanes, dropping a lot more
water, saturating our inlands, and
making it more difficult to deal with
the next weather condition. We have
warmer ocean temperatures that are
making these storms more costly to
our communities. We have what is
known as compound flooding as a re-
sult of climate change—storm surges
that hit our shorelines, which are al-
ready saturated by inland precipita-
tion.
After Tropical Storm Barry, FEMA
said: ‘‘Given [the] unprecedented mag-
nitude of natural disasters over the
past two years and the current pro-
jected path of the storm, a hurricane
making landfall is likely to impact
communities still working to recover
from the previous event.’’ That is how
frequent we are going through flooding.
I will give another example of how
much flooding we have had. In my re-
gion, in Baltimore, if you use the pe-
riod from 1957 to 1963, that 6-year pe-
riod, we had an average of 1.3 floods per
year. If you use 2007 through 2013, we
have had 13.1 floods per year. In Annap-
olis, those numbers are 3.8 floods in the
1957 through 1963 period, compared to
39 floods from 2007 to 2013. That is a
tenfold increase in the number of flood-
ing events.
This is an issue that is with us today.
Thanks to climate change, Baltimore
may feel more like the Mississippi
Delta than Chesapeake Bay country.
Professor Matt Fitzpatrick at the
University of Maryland Center for En-
vironmental Science published a study
in February in the journal Nature
Communications with Robert Dunn, an
ecologist at North Carolina State Uni-
versity, to match cities with their cli-
mate counterparts in 2080. If we con-
tinue this trajectory, they predict that
the average city will come to resemble
climates more than 500 miles away,
often to the south or west. Each one of
our communities is going to be im-
pacted by climate change if we do not
take action to change the trajectory.
Like all States, Maryland has a very
important agricultural community. As
a farmer, it is difficult to make ends
meet today, but with these extreme
weather conditions, it becomes even
more difficult.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.054 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4901
July 17, 2019
It is in our economic interest, our en-
vironmental interest, as well as our se-
curity interest for us to deal with the
climate issues. Unchecked, the sea
level in Maryland coasts will rise. If we
don’t do anything about it in the next
century, it is projected to be at least 16
inches and could be as high as 4 feet.
We know the catastrophic impact to
our coastal communities if we do not
take action to prevent that from hap-
pening.
Our activities of reducing carbon
emissions can make a difference, and
we should do that now to reduce our
use of fossil fuels.
Our States have acted. I am very
proud of the actions we have seen from
local governments and from the private
sector. Nine Northeastern and Mid-At-
lantic States, including Maryland, an-
nounced an intent of a new, regional,
low-carbon transportation policy pro-
posal. All are members of the Trans-
portation and Climate Initiative. This
is great. Our States are doing what we
need to do.
But I just want to underscore what
many of my colleagues have said.
President Trump made the egregious
decision to withdraw us from the Paris
climate agreement. I was there when
U.S. leadership was indispensable in
bringing the world community to-
gether to take action. Every country in
the world joined us in making commit-
ments to reduce our carbon emissions.
It was U.S. leadership. The President
has withdrawn us from that agree-
ment—or is attempting to do that. We
can act. We are an independent branch.
I applaud the action of the House in
passing H.R. 9, the Climate Action Now
Act, but it has been 76 days since the
House has taken action on this very
important climate issue.
Senator SHAHEEN was on the floor
earlier and has introduced S. 1743, the
International Climate Accountability
Act. The United States should meet its
nationally determined contributions.
We determine our own contributions.
We should meet those contributions
and join the international community
in doing something about climate
change.
So, yes, I do ask the majority leader
to let the Senate do what we should do.
Let us consider climate legislation. Let
us debate and act on climate legisla-
tion. We shouldn’t be the graveyard on
these important issues. The Senate
must stop denying action on important
issues and do the right thing to meet
the threat of climate change. It is real
here today. I urge my colleagues to
bring this issue up so that we can, in
fact, do the responsible thing.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that at 11:30
a.m. on Thursday, July 18, the Senate
vote on the Corker and Blanchard
nominations and that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action; further, that fol-
lowing disposition of the Blanchard
nomination, the Senate resume consid-
eration of the Tapia nomination; fi-
nally, that at 1:45 p.m., the Senate vote
on the Tapia nomination and that if
confirmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
U.S. VICTIMS OF STATE
SPONSORED TERRORISM FUND
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I com-
mend my colleague from New York for
his tireless work to ensure that the
brave men and women who selflessly
responded to the terrorist attacks on
September 11, 2001, receive the com-
pensation and care they deserve. Out of
respect for his work and their sacrifice
I do not want to hold up the passage of
this bill. However, I think it is also im-
portant that we remember the other
Americans who have suffered and lost
loved ones at the hands of foreign ter-
rorists. In 1979, a group of Americans
were taken hostage from the U.S. Em-
bassy in Tehran, Iran.
In 1981, after 444 days of torture, 52 of
them were finally released. Years later,
I had the opportunity to meet with sev-
eral of these brave Americans who re-
side in my State. In 2015, I worked with
my colleagues in this body to ensure
that these victims, their families, and
other victims of international ter-
rorism were able to receive compensa-
tion through the creation of the U.S.
Victims of State Sponsored Terrorism
Fund. Congress was clear that this fund
was created specifically to help the
Tehran hostages and other victims of
state-sponsored terrorism who were
not eligible to participate in other
compensation funds.
However, due to a misinterpretation
of the statute, the fund has become
overwhelmed. This year will mark the
40th anniversary of the Iran Hostage
Crisis. Time is not on our side. People
who have been waiting for decades are
now dying without the compensation
they were promised.
Will Senator SCHUMER work with me
and Chairman GRAHAM to secure a so-
lution to this problem in the next ap-
propriate vehicle so that the Tehran
hostages and other victims of state-
sponsored terrorism can finally receive
their due?
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I
promise to work with Senator ISAKSON
to ensure that the Tehran hostages re-
ceive the compensation they deserve
and provide equitable treatment for all
victims of terrorism.
f
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, on Octo-
ber 22, 2018, the Departments of Health
and Human Services and the Treasury
issued a document, entitled State Re-
lief and Empowerment Waivers, relat-
ing to section 1332 of the Affordable
Care Act and its implementing regula-
tions.
Although it was not submitted to
Congress for review under the Congres-
sional Review Act, CRA, this so-called
guidance document seemed to me to be
a substantive rule that should be sub-
ject to review under the CRA. Accord-
ingly, I wrote a letter, along with
Chairman PALLONE of the House En-
ergy and Commerce Committee, asking
the U.S. Government Accountability
Office, GAO, to determine whether the
CRA applied.
This week, I received a reply, in
which the GAO general counsel con-
cludes that the 2018 guidance ‘‘is a rule
under the CRA, which requires that it
be submitted to Congress for review.’’
I ask unanimous consent that the
letter from GAO, dated July 15, 2019, be
printed in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
following my remarks. The letter I am
now submitting to be printed in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD is the original
document provided by GAO to my of-
fice. I will also provide a copy of the
GAO letter to the Parliamentarian’s
office.
Based on Senate precedent, my un-
derstanding is that the publication of
the GAO legal opinion in today’s
RECORD will start the ‘‘clock’’ for con-
gressional review under the provisions
of the CRA.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
Subject: Department of Health and Human
Services and Department of the Treas-
ury—Applicability of the Congressional
Review Act to State Relief and Em-
powerment Waivers
Hon. RON WYDEN,
Ranking Member, Committee on Finance,
U.S. Senate.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, Jr.,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives.
This responds to your request for our legal
opinion as to whether guidance issued by the
Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) and the Department of the Treasury
(Treasury) on October 22, 2018, entitled
‘‘State Relief and Empowerment Waivers’’
(2018 Guidance), is a rule for purposes of the
Congressional Review Act (CRA). Letter
from Ranking Member of the Committee on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.055 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4902 July 17, 2019
Finance, United States Senate, and Chair-
man of the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, House of Representatives, to Comp-
troller General (Feb. 6, 2019). The 2018 Guid-
ance at issue relates to section 1332 of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(PPACA) and its implementing regulations.
Pub. L. No. 111–148, § 1332, 124 Stat. 119, 203–
206 (Mar. 23, 2010) (classified at 42 U.S.C.
§ 18052); 45 C.F.R. pt. 155. For the reasons dis-
cussed below, we conclude that the 2018
Guidance is a rule under the CRA, which re-
quires that it be submitted to Congress for
review.
Our practice when rendering opinions is to
contact the relevant agencies and obtain
their legal views on the subject of the re-
quest. GAO, Procedures and Practices for
Legal Decisions and Opinions, GAO–06–
1064SP (Washington, D.C.: Sept. 2006), avail-
able at www.gao.gov/products/GAO-06-
1064SP. We contacted HHS and Treasury to
obtain the agencies’ views. Letter from Man-
aging Associate General Counsel, GAO, to
General Counsel, HHS (Mar. 4, 2019); Letter
from Managing Associate General Counsel,
GAO, to General Counsel, Treasury (Mar. 4,
2019). We received a response on March 22,
2019. Letter from General Counsel, HHS, to
Managing Associate General Counsel, GAO
(Mar. 22, 2019) (HHS Letter).
BACKGROUND
PPACA requires that most United States
citizens and legal residents maintain health
coverage that meets minimum requirements.
42 U.S.C. § 18021. PPACA also requires the es-
tablishment of exchanges in every state so
that individuals and small businesses can
purchase such coverage and contains require-
ments for exchange functions, such as main-
taining web portals for individuals and small
businesses to access the exchange and call
centers to provide customer service. 42
U.S.C. § 18003(a). In addition, PPACA pro-
vides for premium tax credits and cost-shar-
ing reductions for eligible individuals,
among other things. 26 U.S.C. § 36B.
Section 1332 of the statute permits states
to seek federal approval to waive certain key
requirements under the law. See 42 U.S.C.
§ 18052. For example, section 1332 authorizes
HHS and Treasury to approve state proposals
to waive PPACA requirements related to,
among other things, the maintenance of in-
surance coverage for individuals, exchange
functions, and subsidies for exchange cov-
erage. 42 U.S.C. § 18052(a)(2). PPACA requires
that state 1332 proposals meet four approval
criteria. Specifically, a state proposal must
demonstrate that the waiver will result in
coverage that is at least as comprehensive,
at least as affordable, and available to at
least a comparable number of residents as
would have been provided without the waiv-
er, and that the waiver will not increase the
federal deficit. 42 U.S.C. § 18052(b)(1)(A)–(D).
PPACA required that the Secretaries of
HHS and Treasury promulgate regulations
relating to waivers under section 1332 of
PPACA. 42 U.S.C. § 18052(a)(4)(B). The regula-
tions were required to include processes for
(1) public notice and comment at the state
level sufficient to ensure a meaningful level
of public input, (2) the submission of an ap-
plication that ensures the disclosure of the
provisions of law that the state involved
seeks to waive, (3) additional public notice
and comment after the application is re-
ceived, (4) a process for the submission of
periodic reports concerning implementation
of the program under the waiver, and (5)
periodic evaluation of the program under the
waiver. Id. HHS and Treasury issued such
regulations on February 27, 2012. Applica-
tion, Review, and Reporting Process for
Waivers for State Innovation, 77 Fed. Reg.
11700 (Feb. 27, 2012) (codified at 45 C.F.R. pt.
155).
On December 16, 2015, HHS and Treasury
issued guidance prescribing what a state
needs to demonstrate for a waiver proposal
to meet the statutory criteria under section
1332 of PPACA and how the proposed waiver
will be evaluated. Waivers for State Innova-
tion, 80 Fed. Reg. 78131 (Dec. 16, 2015) (2015
Guidance). For example, the 2015 Guidance
provided that assessment of whether the pro-
posal meets the coverage and affordability
criteria must take into account effects
across different groups of state residents,
such that even if a state could demonstrate
that the waiver would provide coverage to a
comparable number of residents overall, it
would not be approved if it reduced coverage
for vulnerable groups, like low-income or el-
derly individuals. Id. at 78132.
In 2018, the Departments issued new guid-
ance superseding the 2015 Guidance. 83 Fed.
Reg. 53575 (Oct. 24, 2018). According to HHS
and Treasury, the Departments reviewed the
2015 Guidance in accordance with Executive
Order 13765 issued in January 2017, which,
among other things, called for executive
branch agencies with responsibilities under
PPACA to ‘‘exercise all authority and discre-
tion available to them to provide greater
flexibility to states and cooperate with them
in implementing healthcare programs.’’ Id.
at 53584 (citing Exec. Order No. 13765, Mini-
mizing the Economic Burden of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act Pending
Repeal, 82 Fed. Reg. 8351 (Jan. 24, 2017)). As a
result of this review, HHS issued updated
guidance revising the agency’s policies im-
plementing the statutory criteria for a sec-
tion 1332 waiver. In particular, the 2018 Guid-
ance changed the analysis of comprehensive-
ness and affordability articulated in the 2015
Guidance. For example, as noted above, the
2015 Guidance prohibited approval of a sec-
tion 1332 waiver of a state plan that made
coverage less comprehensive or affordable
for vulnerable groups of residents; whereas,
the 2018 Guidance provides that while anal-
ysis will continue to consider effects on all
categories of residents, the revision gives
states more flexibility to decide that im-
provements in comprehensiveness and af-
fordability for state residents as a whole off-
set any small detrimental effects for par-
ticular residents. 83 Fed. Reg. at 53578. In ad-
dition to providing new interpretations for
certain provisions of the 1332 waiver criteria,
like the 2015 Guidance, the 2018 Guidance ex-
plains how the Departments will evaluate
each of the statutory requirements for a sec-
tion 1332 waiver and what a state must in-
clude and demonstrate in its waiver proposal
to comply with each criterion.
CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen con-
gressional oversight of agency rulemaking,
requires all federal agencies, including inde-
pendent regulatory agencies, to submit a re-
port on each new rule to both Houses of Con-
gress and to the Comptroller General before
it can take effect. 5 U.S.C. § 801 (a)(1 ). The
report must contain a copy of the rule, ‘‘a
concise general statement relating to the
rule,’’ and the rule’s proposed effective date.
5 U.S.C. § 801 (a)(1 )(A). In addition, the agen-
cy must submit to the Comptroller General a
complete copy of the cost-benefit analysis of
the rule, if any, and information concerning
the agency’s actions relevant to specific pro-
cedural rulemaking requirements set forth
in various statutes and executive orders gov-
erning the regulatory process. 5 U.S.C. § 801
(a)(1 )(8).
CRA adopts the definition of rule under the
Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5
U.S.C. § 551(4), which states that a rule is
‘‘the whole or a part of an agency statement
of general or particular applicability and fu-
ture effect designed to implement, interpret,
or prescribe law or policy or describing the
organization, procedure, or practice require-
ments of an agency.’’ 5 U.S.C. § 804(3). CRA
excludes three categories of rules from cov-
erage:
(1) rules of particular applicability;
(2) rules relating to agency management or
personnel; and
(3) rules of agency organization, procedure,
or practice that do not substantially affect
the rights or obligations of non-agency par-
ties. 5 U.S.C. § 804(3).
Neither HHS nor Treasury sent a CRA re-
port on the 2018 Guidance to Congress or the
Comptroller General.
ANALYSIS
To determine whether the 2018 Guidance is
a rule subject to review under CRA, we first
address whether the Guidance meets the
APA definition of a rule. As explained below,
we conclude that it does. The next step,
then, is to determine whether any of the
CRA exceptions apply. We conclude that
they do not.
We can readily conclude that the 2018
Guidance meets the APA definition of a rule
upon which the CRA relies. First, the 2018
Guidance is an agency statement, as it was
issued by HHS and Treasury announcing sup-
plementary information about the require-
ments that must be met for the approval of
a State Innovation Waiver. Second, the
Guidance is of future effect, as the Depart-
ments state in the 2018 Guidance that the
document will be in effect on the date of pub-
lication and will be applicable for section
1332 waivers submitted after the publication
date of the 2018 Guidance. Finally, the Guid-
ance is designed to implement, interpret, or
prescribe law or policy as it provides inter-
pretations of the section 1332 criteria, sets
forth what states need to provide to dem-
onstrate that a waiver proposal meets these
statutory criteria, and how the proposed
waiver will be evaluated.
In 2012, we examined a substantially simi-
lar issue to the one presented here and con-
cluded that an Information Memorandum
issued by HHS concerning the Temporary
Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) pro-
gram was a rule for purposes of CRA. 8–
323772, Sept. 4, 2012. The TANF program was
established by section 402 of the Social Secu-
rity Act, and provides federal funding to
states for both traditional welfare case as-
sistance as well as a variety of other benefits
and services to meet the needs of low-income
families and children. 42 U.S.C. § 601. Section
1115 of the Social Security Act provides HHS
with the authority to waive compliance with
the requirements of section 402 in cases of
experimental, pilot, or demonstration
projects that HHS determines are likely to
assist in promoting the objectives of TANF.
42 U.S.C. § 1315. The HHS Information Memo-
randum at issue in our 2012 opinion sets forth
requirements that must be met for a waiver
request to be considered by HHS. We held
that the HHS Information Memorandum was
concerned with authorizing demonstration
projects in the future, rather than evalua-
tion of past or present demonstration
projects, and thus was prospective in nature.
We also found that because the Information
Memorandum stated that HHS will use its
statutory authority to consider waiver re-
quests and set out requirements that waiver
requests must meet, it was designed to im-
plement, interpret, or prescribe law or pol-
icy. Like the HHS Information Memorandum
at issue in our 2012 decision, the 2018 Guid-
ance at issue here meets the definition of a
rule.
We next consider whether the 2018 Guid-
ance falls within one of the exceptions enu-
merated in CRA. 5 U.S.C. § 804(3)(A)–(C). In
this case, the 2018 Guidance is clearly a rule
of general and not particular applicability,
as it applies to all states. Additionally, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.019 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4903
July 17, 2019
Guidance is not a rule relating to agency
management or personnel. In that regard,
our 2012 opinion regarding HHS’s Informa-
tion Memorandum is instructive. See B–
323772, at 4. There, we found that the Infor-
mation Memorandum did not relate to agen-
cy management or personnel since it applied
to the states.
With respect to the final exception—for
rules of agency organization, procedure, or
practice that do not substantially affect the
rights or obligations of non-agency parties—
the Guidance issued by HHS and Treasury
provides requirements that a state must
meet for a waiver proposal to be approved.
For that reason, these requirements affect
the obligations of states, which are non-
agency parties. Our 2012 opinion is again in-
structive. There, we determined that because
the Information Memorandum set out the
criteria by which states may apply for waiv-
ers from certain obligations of the states,
the Information Memorandum affected the
rights and obligations of third parties and
therefore did not fall under CRA’s third ex-
ception. We similarly find here that the 2018
Guidance does not fall under CRA’s third ex-
ception.
We requested the views of the General
Counsels of HHS and Treasury on whether
the 2018 Guidance is a rule for purposes of
CRA. Treasury deferred to HHS’s response.
HHS responded by letter dated March 22,
2019, stating that the 2018 Guidance is not a
rule under CRA because it is not binding and
if it were rescinded, it would not alter or af-
fect the rights and obligations of any state
or other stakeholder under PPACA. HHS
also noted that it informally notified mem-
ber offices, the Senate Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions and Senate Finance
Committees, and the House Ways and Means
and Education and Labor Committees of the
2018 Guidance. See HHS Letter at 1.
HHS provided a similar response when we
requested its views on its Information
Memorandum concerning the TANF pro-
gram. See B–323772, at 5. As we noted in our
2012 opinion, the definition of rule is expan-
sive and specifically includes documents
that implement or interpret law or policy,
whether or not the agency characterizes the
document as non-binding. Id. (citing B–
281575, January 20, 1999). Finally, as we have
stated previously, informal notification does
not meet the reporting requirements of CRA.
5 U.S.C. § 801 (a)(1); B–323772, at 5.
CONCLUSION
The 2018 Guidance sets forth what a state
needs to provide to demonstrate that its pro-
posal meets the four criteria for a waiver
under section 1332 of PPACA and how the
proposals will be evaluated. The 2018 Guid-
ance meets the APA definition of a rule and
does not fall under an exception as provided
in CRA. Accordingly, given our conclusions
above, and in accordance with the provisions
of 5 U.S.C. § 801(a)(1), the 2018 Guidance is
subject to the requirement that it be sub-
mitted to both Houses of Congress and the
Comptroller General before it can take ef-
fect.
If you have any questions about this opin-
ion, please contact Shirley A. Jones, Man-
aging Associate General Counsel, or Janet
Temko-Blinder, Assistant General Counsel.
Sincerely yours,
THOMAS H. ARMSTRONG,
General Counsel.
f
HELPING ENTREPRENEURS AF-
FECT REGULATORY DECISIONS
ACT
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
to introduce legislation with my friend
and colleague from New Hampshire,
Senator SHAHEEN. The Helping Entre-
preneurs Affect Regulatory Decisions
Act or the HEARD Act is a straight-
forward bill that would make our gov-
ernment agencies more accessible to
our Nation’s small business owners and
improve participation in the regu-
latory process.
When Federal agencies, including the
Environmental Protection Agency, the
Occupational Safety and Health Ad-
ministration, or Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, propose a new regu-
lation with a potential large economic
impact, these agencies must convene
Small Business Advocacy Review pan-
els. These panels allow for the views of
small business owners to be heard. The
small businesses provide input on how
a particular regulation may affect
their business and have a chance to
work with the regulators to address
challenges and concerns.
As it stands, these panels are open to
invitees, but participating is often a
challenge, especially when small busi-
nesses are often asked to go to these
panels at their own expense. Small
businesses owners in Maine and other
parts of our country can little afford to
shut down for the day or use their own
money to travel to these panels. Busi-
ness will not stop because of a meeting
held hundreds of miles away. To ad-
dress these barriers, the HEARD Act
would allow a small business to partici-
pate remotely. Small businesses, which
are the backbone of the American
economy, deserve to be heard, espe-
cially when we ask for their input, and
this bill would help facilitate that.
Small businesses and their advocates
support this effort. In my State, the
Maine Chamber of Commerce has en-
dorsed this bill because it would allow
Mainers to give their input on new reg-
ulations more easily. Nationally, the
NFIB, which advocates for America’s
small businesses, supports this bill be-
cause it would ensure that Main Street
has a voice in the regulatory process.
Our bipartisan legislation would
allow small businesses to be a part of
the process by providing input and rec-
ommendations on regulations that
would affect them. I encourage my col-
leagues to support the HEARD Act to
ensure that the Federal Government
hears from our small businesses, the
backbone of our economy.
f
SENATOR LEAHY’S 16,000TH VOTE
Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I con-
gratulate my friend and the senior Sen-
ator from Vermont, PATRICK LEAHY,
for casting his 16,000th vote in the U.S.
Senate. Since he was first elected in
1974, Senator LEAHY has worked tire-
lessly for the people of Vermont, bring-
ing to Washington, DC, Vermont val-
ues: a belief in justice, civic engage-
ment, and the importance of commu-
nity. Senator LEAHY has long been a
champion of human rights, a steward
of the environment, and his efforts
have brought important Federal re-
sources to our State. I join with his
wife Marcelle, his children and grand-
children, and Vermonters throughout
our State in congratulating him on
this milestone vote and thanking him
for his 44 years of dedicated service. I
look forward to continuing to work to-
gether to represent the people of
Vermont.
f
WELCOMING PRESIDENT TSAI ING-
WEN TO COLORADO
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, today
I wish to welcome President Tsai Ing-
wen of Taiwan to my home State of
Colorado.
On Friday, July 19, President Tsai
will land in Denver as she transits
through the United States on to her
way home from official visits with dip-
lomatic allies in the Western Hemi-
sphere.
President Tsai will be the first sit-
ting Taiwan head of state to visit the
beautiful State of Colorado. It will in-
deed be a historic occasion.
This visit to Colorado will highlight
the special relationship that our State
shares with Taiwan. Colorado exports
$222.7 million in goods to Taiwan, mak-
ing it the 10th largest export market
for the Centennial State, the sixth
largest in Asia. It is estimated that
over 2,400 jobs in Colorado support the
export of services to Taiwan.
Our relationship extends well beyond
trade ties. Denver recently became the
new home for the Taipei Economic and
Cultural Office in 2015. Colorado
Springs and Kaohsiung City have been
sister cities since 1983.
The shared values of freedom, democ-
racy, and prosperity provide for the
strong basis of the longstanding friend-
ship between our two nations. Taiwan
is a shining example to its neighbors.
In 2019, Taiwan was ranked the second
freest country in Asia by Freedom
House. It was also ranked the 10th
freest economy in the world by the
Heritage Foundation.
The strength and vitality of Taiwan’s
democratic and economic system has
made it a beacon of democracy in the
Indo-Pacific and throughout the world.
The relationship between our two
countries is critical for the United
States, as we continue to advance the
goal of a free and open Indo-Pacific and
to promote our shared values in that
region.
This is why, during my time in the
Senate, I have championed the ties be-
tween the United States and Taiwan.
On December 31, 2018, President Trump
signed into law the Asia Reassurance
Initiative Act, which declares that it is
the ‘‘policy of the United States to sup-
port the close economic, political, and
security relationship between Taiwan
and the United States’’ and requires
regular U.S. arms sales and endorses
high-level reciprocal visits between our
nations.
President Tsai has graciously wel-
comed me to Taiwan on four occasions,
including a memorable visit several
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.021 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4904 July 17, 2019
months ago, when she graciously took
me on a tour of Taipei’s iconic
Dadaocheng neighborhood. It is now
my pleasure to return the favor this
weekend when she visits my home
State.
Welcome, President Tsa, to the Cen-
tennial State, and may we continue to
strengthen the bonds of friendship be-
tween our nations and our peoples.
f
TRIBUTE TO PHIL AND JODY
SCHMIDT
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise
today in celebration of Phil and Jody
Schmidt, the Boys and Girls Club of
Central Wyoming’s 2019 honorees.
Since 1978, the Boys and Girls Club of
Central Wyoming has committed itself
to making a positive difference in the
lives of children. Their mission is to in-
spire all youth, especially those who
need them most. The goal is to help
these children to reach their full poten-
tial as productive, responsible, and car-
ing citizens. Their activities provide
the children in our community a sense
of dedication, purpose, and belonging.
The Boys and Girls Club will host its
annual awards and recognition break-
fast on August 28, 2019. This event cele-
brates the outstanding efforts by indi-
viduals who have made remarkable and
significant contributions to the Boys
and Girls Club mission and to the City
of Casper.
Phil and Jody Schmidt will be hon-
ored at this year’s breakfast. Their
lifelong commitment toward bettering
the lives of youth in the Casper com-
munity is remarkable. Their dedica-
tion to Wyoming’s young people em-
bodies the Boys and Girls Club of Cen-
tral Wyoming’s charge to better the
lives of children in Casper.
Phil is a devoted family man, suc-
cessful businessman, and selfless com-
munity member. After graduating from
high school, Phil attended Black Hills
State University, earning a bachelor’s
degree in business administration with
an emphasis in accounting. Phil and
Jody moved to Casper in 1982, immers-
ing themselves in the community. Phil
began his career as a CPA. In 1988, he
became the president and owner of
Greiner Motor Companies. Under his
guidance, Greiner Motors grew from
one dealership to three, employing al-
most 300 people. Phil received the Ford
Motor Company’s ‘‘Salute to Dealers’’
award in 2009. The award commends
dealers ‘‘exhibiting unparalleled dedi-
cation to their communities.’’ Phil was
one of six recipients, selected from al-
most 6,000 dealers.
Remarkably, Phil’s hard work and
contributions to the Casper community
extend far beyond his business suc-
cesses. Phil and the employees of
Greiner Motor Companies led a cleanup
effort of Casper Skate Park in 2004.
Phil recognized a clean, safe park
would give Casper youth an area where
they could safely socialize and develop
athletic skills. Greiner Motor Compa-
nies also helped to host the ‘‘Fill-A-
Ford’’ food drive, parking Ford pickups
at various bank branches to collect
canned good and donations for food
banks. They raised $26,000 and collected
enough canned goods to fill up three
pickup trucks.
Phil also devotes much of his time
and energy serving on the boards of
many outstanding organizations. Any
group lucky enough to have Phil on its
board is destined for success. The Boys
and Girls Club of Central Wyoming,
Casper Family YMCA, Wyoming Med-
ical Center, Wyoming Auto Dealers,
the Natrona County Library Founda-
tion, and the Wyoming Transportation
Commission have all benefited from his
servant leadership. Phil credits Jody
for his great success. Her support and
strength during times of both hardship
and good fortune allowed Phil to thrive
with his ventures.
Jody is a dedicated mother and car-
ing wife. Raised in Fruitdale, SD,
alongside five siblings, Jody learned
the values of hard work and commu-
nity involvement from her parents.
They ran the family’s beekeeping busi-
ness, McIntire Honey. Her father, Rus-
sell, served on the board of directors
for their local hospital, delivered Meals
on Wheels to his neighbors in need, and
served as a member and Grand Knight
in their local council of the Knights of
Columbus. Her mother, Betty, served
in the local community club and was
honored for her work as a hospital aux-
iliary volunteer. Their values of kind-
ness and generosity were instilled in
Jody, who then brought them to the
Casper community.
Jody also supports their neighbors
and community with volunteer work
and service efforts. She serves on the
boards of the National Alliance on
Mental Issues and Interfaith of
Natrona County. She volunteers at
Holy Cross Center with the food bank
ministry and helps St. Anthony Tri-
Parish School in countless areas, in-
cluding coordinating charity runs and
auction galas. Like my wife Bobbi,
Jody is a strong, resilient breast can-
cer survivor. She is a pillar of courage
and perseverance.
Phil and Jody have been married 37
years and were blessed with six chil-
dren: Allyson, Madelyn, Reid, Evan,
James, and Nathan. The family per-
severed through tremendous pain; their
sons Evan and Reid passed away at the
ages of 11 and 29, respectively. In the
wake of this tremendous personal chal-
lenge, Phil and Jody chose to continue
their commitment to others. They
looked past their pain, turning tough
times into a means to assist and help
care for those in need. They believe
their difficult experiences give them
the ability to come alongside others
who face similar challenges. This
mindset of perseverance demonstrates
just how deserving they are of this
award.
There is no doubt the work and end-
less hours given by Phil and Jody will
continue to shape and improve count-
less lives for years to come. Together,
the couple represent Wyoming’s char-
acteristic strength, resilience and de-
termination. Their generosity is excep-
tional. In the midst of enormous chal-
lenges the pair find the courage to not
only push on, but to help others do the
same.
It is with great honor that I recog-
nize these exceptional members of our
Wyoming community. My wife, Bobbi,
joins me in extending our congratula-
tions to Phil and Jody Schmidt for this
special acknowledgement.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL
MARK BERRY
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. President, today I
wish to pay tribute to MG Mark Berry
for his exemplary dedication to duty
and service as the adjutant general for
the Arkansas National Guard. General
Berry is retiring from his position on
August 10, 2019.
A Texas native, General Berry en-
listed in the Air Force in August 1974.
He also furthered his education while
serving, receiving a bachelor of aero-
nautics from Embry-Riddle Aero-
nautical University and earning a mas-
ters of public administration from
Golden Gate University.
Major General Berry has served the
United States in a broad capacity dur-
ing his 45-year career with the Armed
Forces. Upon completion of basic train-
ing, he began technical training as an
air traffic controller. In 1985, he at-
tended officer training school with fol-
low-on training as an air traffic control
officer. General Berry separated from
his Active-Duty role in September 1992
to join the Arkansas Air National
Guard as a public affairs officer.
During his time in the National
Guard, he served as a communication
flight commander, mission support
group commander, and maintenance
group commander. In the State of Ar-
kansas, Berry served as the vice-chair-
man of the Air National Guard A–10
Aircraft Maintenance Council until re-
ceiving the honor of becoming the
president of the National Guard Asso-
ciation of Arkansas. In 2015, General
Berry was given his most distinguished
assignment when he was appointed ad-
jutant general for the Arkansas Na-
tional Guard.
Throughout his time in Arkansas, I
have worked closely with General
Berry to ensure our National Guard not
only meets but exceeds the standards
needed to protect our State and coun-
try. During times of crisis or disaster
in the State, General Berry made cer-
tain the National Guard was prepared
and able to respond quickly and effec-
tively. He has represented himself, the
Arkansas Guard, and our Armed Forces
with consistent professionalism, dili-
gence, and commitment. I have noth-
ing but respect and gratitude for the
job he has done as the leader of our
State’s National Guard.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.018 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4905
July 17, 2019
Major General Berry has received nu-
merous awards and recognitions for his
service to the United States during his
career, including the Legion of Merit
for exceptional conduct in the perform-
ance of his services to our Nation, and
has had a positive impact on the lives
of many servicemembers, peers, and su-
periors. His accomplishments reflect
highly not only on himself, but also on
the men and women of our Nation’s
military. As his time in uniform comes
to an end, we honor his dedication to
our country and his invaluable service
to the U.S. Air Force and Arkansas Na-
tional Guard.
It was a genuine pleasure to have
worked with MG Mark Berry through-
out his years serving his country and
our State. I commend General Berry
for his exceptional service and deco-
rated career and greatly appreciate his
friendship of many years. We wish him
all the best as he begins his retirement
from the U.S. Armed Forces.∑
f
RECOGNIZING LEVATAS
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship, it is
my honor to recognize a small business
that exemplifies innovation, entrepre-
neurship, and hard work. This week, it
is my privilege to name Levatas of
Palm Beach Gardens, FL, as the Senate
Small Business of the Week.
Levatas is a strategic marketing and
consulting firm that uses artificial in-
telligence—AI—and machine learning
technologies to develop solutions for
their clients. They utilize AI tech-
nology to help the manufacturing in-
dustry and other companies better un-
derstand their customers. Levatas was
started 13 years ago by Chris Nielsen in
his Jupiter, FL, garage. Nielsen and his
team have since expanded to become
one of south Florida’s leader in AI so-
lutions.
Moving from Jupiter, FL, Levatas ex-
panded to their current office in Palm
Beach Gardens and recently announced
a second expansion, headquartered in
Rosemary Square, where an additional
50 new jobs will be created.
A large part of their success lies in
Levatas’s excellent company culture.
In fact, Levatas was recently honored
by Entrepreneur magazine in the ‘‘2018
Top Company Cultures’’ for the ‘‘Small
Companies’’ category. They have also
been recognized by the Florida commu-
nity as well. In 2018, Palm Beach Tech
Association awarded Chris Nielsen,
Ryan Gay, CEO of Levatas, and
Levatas Golden Palm awards for excel-
lence. In addition to numerous acco-
lades, Levatas has made significant
contributions to their community.
Through Levatas’s GenerosiTeam ini-
tiative, employees have supported local
philanthropic organizations including
the Big Heart Brigade, Sheridan House,
One Blood Organization Blood Drive,
Children’s Miracle Network donation
drive, and other nonprofits.
Levatas has cemented themselves as
a local hub for innovation in the Palm
Beach community. Levatas’s extensive
clientele spans many industries and in-
cludes companies such as Royal Carib-
bean Cruise Line, Orangetheory Fit-
ness, SunTrust Bank, HSBC, Dell, IBM,
Discover the Palm Beaches, Duffy’s
Sports Grill, and more. Renowned for
their phenomenal quality of service,
Levatas’s innovative solutions for dig-
ital transformation showcase their sig-
nificant experience in building tech-
nology and bringing products to mar-
ket.
Levatas has remained true to their
core values by focusing on quality serv-
ice with an expert ability to provide in-
novative, creative, and experienced so-
lutions to shape brands and build tech-
nology. Furthermore, Levatas is a phe-
nomenal example of how hard work can
lead to success. It is with great pleas-
ure that I extend my congratulations
to Chris Nielsen and all of the members
of the Levatas community. Levatas has
an exciting future ahead, and I look
forward to watching your continued
success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 1327. To extend authorization for the
September 11th Victim Compensation Fund
of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for other
purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1992. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
Executive Office of the President, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Mid-Session Review of the Budget of the
U.S. Government for Fiscal Year 2020’’; to
the Committees on Appropriations; and the
Budget.
EC–1993. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of three (3) of-
ficers authorized to wear the insignia of the
grade of major general in accordance with
title 10, United States Code, section 777, this
will not cause the Department to exceed the
number of frocked officers authorized; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1994. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Re-
moval of Transferred OTS Regulations Re-
garding Lending and Investment; and Con-
forming Amendments to Other Regulation’’
(RIN3064–AE22) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on July 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–1995. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to
the Filing Process for Commission Forms’’
((RIN1902–AF58) (Docket No. RM19–12–000))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 15, 2019; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–1996. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Transportation, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Transpor-
tation Infrastructure Finance and Innova-
tion Act: 2018 Report to Congress’’; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–1997. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the hurricane storm surge damage
risk reduction and ecosystem restoration in
Calcasieu, Cameron, and Vermillion Parishes
in southwest Louisiana; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–1998. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel, Office of the
General Counsel, Department of Education,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Final Priorities, Require-
ments, Definitions, and Selection Criteria—
Expanding Opportunity Through Quality
Charter Schools Program; Grants to Charter
School Developers for the Opening of New
Charter Schools and for the Republication
and Expansion of High-Quality Charter
Schools’’ (RIN1855–AA14) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 12, 2019; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
EC–1999. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Services, Office of Postsecondary Edu-
cation, Department of Education, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Program Integrity: Gainful Employ-
ment’’ (RIN1840–AD31) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 12, 2019; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
EC–2000. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘New Animal Drugs; Updat-
ing Tolerances for Residues of New Animal
Drugs in Food’’ ((RIN1910–AG17) (Docket No.
FDA–2012–N–1067)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 15, 2019;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2001. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
for the Department’s 2017 FAIR Act Inven-
tory of Inherently Governmental Activities
and Inventory of Commercial Activities; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2002. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.026 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4906 July 17, 2019
on D.C. Act 23–70, ‘‘Fair Elections Tem-
porary Amendment Act of 2019’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2003. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–71, ‘‘Adams Morgan Business
Improvement District Temporary Amend-
ment Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2004. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–73, ‘‘Florida Avenue
Multimodal Project Completion Temporary
Amendment Act of 2019’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2005. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–74, ‘‘Fiscal Year 2019 Revised
Local Budget Temporary Adjustment Act of
2019’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2006. A communication from the Acting
Chief Privacy Officer, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Department of Home-
land Security Privacy Office’s Fiscal Year
2019 Semiannual Report to Congress’’; to the
Committees on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs; Select Committee on In-
telligence; and the Judiciary.
EC–2007. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the activities of the Department of Justice
to investigate and prosecute unsolved civil
rights-era homicides; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
EC–2008. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Upper Mississippi River, Miles
483 to 484, Rock Island, IL’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0513)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
11, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2009. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Lake of the Ozarks, Sunrise
Beach, MO’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0525)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 11, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2010. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Upper Mississippi River, Ches-
ter, IL, Thebes, IL’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0416)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 11, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–2011. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; New Jersey Intracoastal Wa-
terway, Atlantic City, NJ’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0537)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
11, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2012. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Fireworks Display, Delaware
River, Chester, PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0403)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 11, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–2013. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Fireworks Display, Delaware
River, Philadelphia, PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0338)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
11, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2014. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Vallejo Independence Day
Fireworks Display; Mare Island Strait,
Vallejo, CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0379)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 11, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2015. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; City of Benicia Fourth of July
Fireworks Display, Carquinez Strait,
Benicia, CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0393)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 11, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2016. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Redwood City Independence
Day Fireworks Display; Port of Redwood
City, Redwood City, CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0467)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
11, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2017. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Newport 4th of July Fire-
works, Yaquina Bay, Newport, OR’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0520)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on July 11, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2018. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘San
Francisco Waterfront Celebration Fireworks
Display; San Francisco Bay. San Francisco,
CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0492)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on July 11, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2019. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone, Fourth of July Fireworks Pa-
triots Point, Charleston, SC’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0372)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on July 11, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2020. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone, City of North Charleston Fire-
works, North Charleston, SC’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0371)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on July 11, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2021. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Columbia River, Fireworks
Kennewick, WA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0323)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 11, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–2022. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Columbia River, Fireworks
Umatilla, OR’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0324)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 11, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–117. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of Maine urging the
President of the United States and the
United States Congress to enact legislation
to allow the importation of safe, affordable
prescription medications from Canada and
other Organization for Economic Coopera-
tion and Development nations; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
HOUSE PAPER NO. 1184
Whereas, Maine residents have a high me-
dian age and a low median income and are
especially vulnerable to high prescription
drug costs; and
Whereas, in Canada, within walking dis-
tance of Maine’s border, the same medica-
tions used by Maine residents, manufactured
by the same companies in the same factories,
are available for a fraction of the price
charged in the United States; and
Whereas, Maine has previously allowed the
personal importation of safe prescription
medications, which saved residents and busi-
nesses as much as half the cost of their medi-
cations, significantly decreasing their health
care and insurance costs; and
Whereas, Maine’s ability to import such
medications has since been blocked by fed-
eral law, thus inserting the Federal Govern-
ment between Maine people and potentially
lifesaving medications while also preventing
free-market competition from working to
benefit consumers; and
Whereas, in 2014, Americans spent $1,112
per person on prescription drugs while Cana-
dians spent $772 and Danes spent $325, and
nearly one in three Americans have been un-
able to afford the medicine they were pre-
scribed at some point in their lives; and
Whereas, multiple members of Congress
from both major political parties, including
Maine’s delegation, have introduced legisla-
tion to allow wholesalers, pharmacies and in-
dividuals to import qualifying prescription
drugs from licensed sellers in Canada and
other member nations of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development,
using standards for the approval and sale of
such medications comparable to those in the
United States, that are purchased from an
entity certified by the United States Food
and Drug Administration and that have the
same active ingredient, strength and route of
administration as drugs approved in the
United States; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.027 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4907
July 17, 2019
Whereas, the President’s health care pro-
posal prior to his election read as follows:
‘‘Congress will need the courage to step away
from the special interests and do what is
right for Americans . . . Allowing consumers
access to imported, safe and dependable
drugs from overseas will bring more options
to consumers’’; Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That We, your Memorialists, on
behalf of the people we represent, take this
opportunity to respectfully request that the
President of the United States and the
United States Congress enact legislation to
allow the importation of safe, affordable pre-
scription medications from Canada and other
Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development nations; and be it further
Resolved, That suitable copies of this reso-
lution, duly authenticated by the Secretary
of State, be transmitted to the Honorable
Donald J. Trump, President of the United
States; the President of the United States
Senate; the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States; and each
Member of the Maine Congressional Delega-
tion.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, and Mr. HEINRICH):
S. 2135. A bill to require U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to perform an initial
health screening on detainees, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 2136. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the ability of vet-
erans to receive in-state tuition using edu-
cational assistance administered by the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. BENNET, and Mr. WAR-
NER):
S. 2137. A bill to promote energy savings in
residential buildings and industry, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. CARDIN:
S. 2138. A bill to waive participant fees on
small-dollar and veteran Express loans in the
largest loan program of the Small Business
Administration to close the capital gap for
underserved business owners, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. REED,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
and Mr. SANDERS):
S. 2139. A bill to prohibit the award of Fed-
eral Government contracts to inverted do-
mestic corporations, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. REED,
Ms. WARREN, Mr. BROWN, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
SANDERS, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2140. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the rules relat-
ing to inverted corporations; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 2141. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to supplement the reporting require-
ments applicable to the Small Business Ad-
ministration, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mrs.
SHAHEEN):
S. 2142. A bill to allow remote participa-
tion on review panels under the Regulatory
Flexibility Act, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. MAR-
KEY, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 2143. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to expand the eligibility of
students to participate in the supplemental
nutrition assistance program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. CORNYN:
S. 2144. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to prepare a threat and oper-
ational analysis of the use of remittances by
drug kingpins, crime syndicates, and other
persons to finance terrorism, narcotics traf-
ficking, human trafficking, money laun-
dering, and other forms of illicit financing,
domestically or internationally; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr. BRAUN,
and Mr. LANKFORD):
S. 2145. A bill to prohibit the payment of
bonuses to contractors for unsatisfactory
performance; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2146. A bill to enable incarcerated per-
sons to petition a Federal court for a second
look at sentences longer than 10 years, where
the person is not a danger to the safety of
any person or the community, and has shown
they are ready for reentry, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms.
SINEMA, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr. PETERS,
Ms. MCSALLY, and Mr. SCOTT of Flor-
ida):
S. 2147. A bill to double the existing pen-
alties for the provision of misleading or inac-
curate caller identification information, and
to extend the statute of limitations for for-
feiture penalties for persons who commit
such violations; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2148. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to provide additional awards for disaster
recovery, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2149. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to create a program to provide funding
for organizations that support startup busi-
nesses in formation and early growth stages
by providing entrepreneurs with resources
and services to produce viable businesses,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2150. A bill to establish a regional high-
growth collaborative pilot program in the
Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2151. A bill to amend section 287 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act to prohibit
immigration officers and agents of the De-
partment of Homeland Security from wear-
ing clothing or other items bearing the word
‘‘police’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 2152. A bill to require a study and report
on Coast Guard interdiction of illicit drugs
in the transit zones, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 2153. A bill to require a report on the ef-
fects of climate change on the Coast Guard,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. CORNYN, and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 2154. A bill to direct the Secretary of De-
fense to carry out a program to enhance the
preparation of students in the Junior Re-
serve Officers’ Training Corps for careers in
computer science and cybersecurity, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
BROWN, and Mr. SANDERS):
S. 2155. A bill to require the Securities and
Exchange Commission to issue rules requir-
ing private funds to publicly disclose certain
information, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
KAINE, and Mr. YOUNG):
S. Res. 277. A resolution remembering the
25th Anniversary of the bombing of the Ar-
gentine Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA)
Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, and recommitting to efforts to
uphold justice for the 85 victims of the at-
tacks; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. WARREN,
and Ms. HARRIS):
S. Con. Res. 22. A concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that there is a
climate emergency which demands a mas-
sive-scale mobilization to halt, reverse, and
address its consequences and causes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 27
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 27, a bill to amend the
Surface Mining Control and Reclama-
tion Act of 1977 to transfer certain
funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers
of America Pension Plan, and for other
purposes.
S. 116
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 116, a
bill to address maternal mortality and
morbidity.
S. 229
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
229, a bill to provide advance appropria-
tions authority for certain accounts of
the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bu-
reau of Indian Education of the Depart-
ment of the Interior and the Indian
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.032 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4908 July 17, 2019
Health Service of the Department of
Health and Human Services, and for
other purposes.
S. 256
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
256, a bill to amend the Native Amer-
ican Programs Act of 1974 to provide
flexibility and reauthorization to en-
sure the survival and continuing vital-
ity of Native American languages.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 521, a bill to amend title II of
the Social Security Act to repeal the
Government pension offset and wind-
fall elimination provisions.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 638, a bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 651, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the
age requirement with respect to eligi-
bility for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 944
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 944, a bill to enhance the security
operations of the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration and the stability
of the transportation security work-
force by applying a unified personnel
system under title 5, United States
Code, to employees of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration who
are responsible for screening pas-
sengers and property, and for other
purposes.
S. 976
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 976, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 and the Jeanne
Clery Disclosure of Campus Security
Policy and Campus Crime Statistics
Act to combat campus sexual assault,
and for other purposes.
S. 983
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 983, a bill to amend the
Energy Conservation and Production
Act to reauthorize the weatherization
assistance program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1027
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1027, a bill to clarify the status of
the North Country, Ice Age, and New
England National Scenic Trails as
units of the National Park System, and
for other purposes.
S. 1166
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1166, a bill to direct the
Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
Communications and Information to
make grants for the establishment or
expansion of internet exchange facili-
ties, and for other purposes.
S. 1188
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1188, a bill to promote United
States-Mongolia trade by authorizing
duty-free treatment for certain im-
ports from Mongolia, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1203
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1203, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 in order to im-
prove the public service loan forgive-
ness program, and for other purposes.
S. 1219
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1219, a bill to provide for the discharge
of parent borrower liability if a student
on whose behalf a parent has received
certain student loans becomes disabled.
S. 1236
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1236, a bill to amend the Securi-
ties Exchange Act of 1934 to clarify the
composition of the membership of the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board, and for other purposes.
S. 1243
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1243, a bill to provide stand-
ards for facilities at which aliens in the
custody of the Department of Home-
land Security are detained, and for
other purposes.
S. 1273
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1273, a bill to amend title 17,
United States Code, to establish an al-
ternative dispute resolution program
for copyright small claims, and for
other purposes.
S. 1338
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1338, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to direct the Sec-
retary of Education to issue guidance
and recommendations for institutions
of higher education on removing crimi-
nal and juvenile justice questions from
their application for admissions proc-
ess.
S. 1350
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1350, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to limit the liabil-
ity of health care professionals who
volunteer to provide health care serv-
ices in response to a disaster.
S. 1383
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1383, a bill to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to
provide a guarantee of residency for
registration of businesses of spouses of
members of the uniformed services, to
improve occupational license port-
ability for military spouses through
interstate compacts, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1421
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1421, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to the 23d
Headquarters Special Troops and the
3133d Signal Service Company in rec-
ognition of their unique and distin-
guished service as a ‘‘Ghost Army’’
that conducted deception operations in
Europe during World War II.
S. 1572
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1572, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to require
additional reporting on crime and
harm that occurs during student par-
ticipation in programs of study abroad,
and for other purposes.
S. 1701
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Tennessee (Mrs.
BLACKBURN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1701, a bill to address foreign
threats to higher education in the
United States.
S. 1703
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN), the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator
from West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO), the
Senator from Michigan (Ms. STABE-
NOW), the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN), the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator
from Maine (Mr. KING), the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) and the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1703, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to reform the low-income
housing credit, and for other purposes.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.036 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4909
July 17, 2019
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1728, a bill to require the
United States Postal Service to sell the
Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 ad-
ditional years.
S. 1791
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Michi-
gan (Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
CASEY) were added as cosponsors of S.
1791, a bill to prohibit discrimination
on the basis of religion, sex (including
sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity), and marital status in the admin-
istration and provision of child welfare
services, to improve safety, well-being,
and permanency for lesbian, gay, bisex-
ual, transgender, and queer or ques-
tioning foster youth, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1936
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1936, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
protect coverage for screening mam-
mography, and for other purposes.
S. 1979
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1979, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to provide for the
minimum size of crews of freight
trains, and for other purposes.
S. 2011
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2011, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to reduce the cred-
it hour requirement for the Edith
Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship pro-
gram of the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and for other purposes.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from Texas
(Mr. CRUZ) were added as cosponsors of
S. 2054, a bill to posthumously award
the Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods,
J. Christopher Stevens, and Sean
Smith, in recognition of their contribu-
tions to the Nation.
S. 2080
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Kan-
sas (Mr. MORAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2080, a bill to amend the Pub-
lic Health Service Act to increase the
number of permanent faculty in pallia-
tive care at accredited allopathic and
osteopathic medical schools, nursing
schools, social work schools, and other
programs, including physician assist-
ant education programs, to promote
education and research in palliative
care and hospice, and to support the
development of faculty careers in aca-
demic palliative medicine.
S. 2083
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED), the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. ROSEN), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) and
the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. BALD-
WIN) were added as cosponsors of S.
2083, a bill to amend chapter 2205 of
title 36, United States Code, to ensure
pay equity for amateur athletes, and
for other purposes.
S. 2110
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2110, a bill to address food and housing
insecurity on college campuses.
S.J. RES. 50
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 50, a joint resolution pro-
viding for congressional disapproval
under chapter 8 of title 5, United
States Code, of the rule submitted by
the Internal Revenue Service, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, relating to
‘‘Contributions in Exchange for State
or Local Tax Credits’’.
S. CON. RES. 19
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ), the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) were
added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 19,
a concurrent resolution celebrating the
50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 Moon
landing.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) and the Senator from
Washington (Mrs. MURRAY) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 120, a resolu-
tion opposing efforts to delegitimize
the State of Israel and the Global Boy-
cott, Divestment, and Sanctions Move-
ment targeting Israel.
S. RES. 234
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 234, a resolution affirming the
United States commitment to the two-
state solution to the Israeli-Pales-
tinian conflict, and noting that Israeli
annexation of territory in the West
Bank would undermine peace and
Israel’s future as a Jewish and demo-
cratic state.
S. RES. 263
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 263, a resolution honoring the
100th anniversary of The American Le-
gion.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Michi-
gan (Mr. PETERS) were added as cospon-
sors of S. Res. 274, a resolution express-
ing solidarity with Falun Gong practi-
tioners who have lost lives, freedoms,
and other rights for adhering to their
beliefs and practices, and condemning
the practice of non-consenting organ
harvesting, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
REED, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. SANDERS):
S. 2139. A bill to prohibit the award
of Federal Government contracts to in-
verted domestic corporations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2139
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘American
Business for American Companies Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON AWARDING CONTRACTS
TO INVERTED DOMESTIC CORPORA-
TIONS.
(a) CIVILIAN CONTRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 47 of title 41,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 4714. Prohibition on awarding contracts to
inverted domestic corporations
‘‘(a) PROHIBITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The head of an executive
agency may not award a contract for the
procurement of property or services to—
‘‘(A) any foreign incorporated entity that
such head has determined is an inverted do-
mestic corporation or any subsidiary of such
entity; or
‘‘(B) any joint venture if more than 10 per-
cent of the joint venture (by vote or value) is
held by a foreign incorporated entity that
such head has determined is an inverted do-
mestic corporation or any subsidiary of such
entity.
‘‘(2) SUBCONTRACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The head of an execu-
tive agency shall include in each contract for
the procurement of property or services
awarded by the executive agency with a
value in excess of $10,000,000, other than a
contract for exclusively commercial items, a
clause that prohibits the prime contractor
on such contract from—
‘‘(i) awarding a first-tier subcontract with
a value greater than 10 percent of the total
value of the prime contract to an entity or
joint venture described in paragraph (1); or
‘‘(ii) structuring subcontract tiers in a
manner designed to avoid the limitation in
paragraph (1) by enabling an entity or joint
venture described in paragraph (1) to perform
more than 10 percent of the total value of
the prime contract as a lower-tier subcon-
tractor.
‘‘(B) PENALTIES.—The contract clause in-
cluded in contracts pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) shall provide that, in the event
that the prime contractor violates the con-
tract clause—
‘‘(i) the prime contract may be terminated
for default; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.037 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4910 July 17, 2019
‘‘(ii) the matter may be referred to the sus-
pension or debarment official for the appro-
priate agency and may be a basis for suspen-
sion or debarment of the prime contractor.
‘‘(b) INVERTED DOMESTIC CORPORATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, a foreign incorporated entity shall be
treated as an inverted domestic corporation
if, pursuant to a plan (or a series of related
transactions)—
‘‘(A) the entity completes on or after May
8, 2014, the direct or indirect acquisition of—
‘‘(i) substantially all of the properties held
directly or indirectly by a domestic corpora-
tion; or
‘‘(ii) substantially all of the assets of, or
substantially all of the properties consti-
tuting a trade or business of, a domestic
partnership; and
‘‘(B) after the acquisition, either—
‘‘(i) more than 50 percent of the stock (by
vote or value) of the entity is held—
‘‘(I) in the case of an acquisition with re-
spect to a domestic corporation, by former
shareholders of the domestic corporation by
reason of holding stock in the domestic cor-
poration; or
‘‘(II) in the case of an acquisition with re-
spect to a domestic partnership, by former
partners of the domestic partnership by rea-
son of holding a capital or profits interest in
the domestic partnership; or
‘‘(ii) the management and control of the
expanded affiliated group which includes the
entity occurs, directly or indirectly, pri-
marily within the United States, as deter-
mined pursuant to regulations prescribed by
the Secretary of the Treasury, and such ex-
panded affiliated group has significant do-
mestic business activities.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR CORPORATIONS WITH
SUBSTANTIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES IN FOREIGN
COUNTRY OF ORGANIZATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A foreign incorporated
entity described in paragraph (1) shall not be
treated as an inverted domestic corporation
if after the acquisition the expanded affili-
ated group which includes the entity has
substantial business activities in the foreign
country in which or under the law of which
the entity is created or organized when com-
pared to the total business activities of such
expanded affiliated group.
‘‘(B) SUBSTANTIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.—
The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Sec-
retary’s delegate) shall establish regulations
for determining whether an affiliated group
has substantial business activities for pur-
poses of subparagraph (A), except that such
regulations may not treat any group as hav-
ing substantial business activities if such
group would not be considered to have sub-
stantial business activities under the regula-
tions prescribed under section 7874 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, as in effect on
January 18, 2017.
‘‘(3) SIGNIFICANT DOMESTIC BUSINESS ACTIVI-
TIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of para-
graph (1)(B)(ii), an expanded affiliated group
has significant domestic business activities
if at least 25 percent of—
‘‘(i) the employees of the group are based
in the United States;
‘‘(ii) the employee compensation incurred
by the group is incurred with respect to em-
ployees based in the United States;
‘‘(iii) the assets of the group are located in
the United States; or
‘‘(iv) the income of the group is derived in
the United States.
‘‘(B) DETERMINATION.—Determinations pur-
suant to subparagraph (A) shall be made in
the same manner as such determinations are
made for purposes of determining substantial
business activities under regulations re-
ferred to in paragraph (2) as in effect on Jan-
uary 18, 2017, but applied by treating all ref-
erences in such regulations to ‘foreign coun-
try’ and ‘relevant foreign country’ as ref-
erences to ‘the United States’. The Secretary
of the Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate)
may issue regulations decreasing the thresh-
old percent in any of the tests under such
regulations for determining if business ac-
tivities constitute significant domestic busi-
ness activities for purposes of this para-
graph.
‘‘(c) WAIVER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The head of an executive
agency may waive subsection (a) with re-
spect to any Federal Government contract
under the authority of such head if the head
determines that the waiver is—
‘‘(A) required in the interest of national se-
curity; or
‘‘(B) necessary for the efficient or effective
administration of Federal or federally fund-
ed—
‘‘(i) programs that provide health benefits
to individuals; or
‘‘(ii) public health programs.
‘‘(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The head of an
executive agency issuing a waiver under
paragraph (1) shall, not later than 14 days
after issuing such waiver, submit a written
notification of the waiver to the relevant au-
thorizing committees of Congress and the
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate
and the House of Representatives.
‘‘(d) APPLICABILITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), this section shall not apply to
any contract entered into before the date of
the enactment of this section.
‘‘(2) TASK AND DELIVERY ORDERS.—This sec-
tion shall apply to any task or delivery order
issued after the date of the enactment of this
section pursuant to a contract entered into
before, on, or after such date of enactment.
‘‘(3) SCOPE.—This section applies only to
contracts subject to regulation under the
Federal Acquisition Regulation.
‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the
terms ‘expanded affiliated group’, ‘foreign
incorporated entity’, ‘person’, ‘domestic’,
and ‘foreign’ have the meaning given those
terms in section 835(c) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(c)).
‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULES.—In applying sub-
section (b) of this section for purposes of sub-
section (a) of this section, the rules described
under 835(c)(1) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(c)(1)) shall apply.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 47 of
title 41, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
4713 the following new item:
‘‘4714. Prohibition on awarding contracts to
inverted domestic corpora-
tions.’’.
(b) DEFENSE CONTRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 137 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2339. Prohibition on awarding contracts to
inverted domestic corporations
‘‘(a) PROHIBITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The head of an agency
may not award a contract for the procure-
ment of property or services to—
‘‘(A) any foreign incorporated entity that
such head has determined is an inverted do-
mestic corporation or any subsidiary of such
entity; or
‘‘(B) any joint venture if more than 10 per-
cent of the joint venture (by vote or value) is
owned by a foreign incorporated entity that
such head has determined is an inverted do-
mestic corporation or any subsidiary of such
entity.
‘‘(2) SUBCONTRACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The head of an execu-
tive agency shall include in each contract for
the procurement of property or services
awarded by the executive agency with a
value in excess of $10,000,000, other than a
contract for exclusively commercial items, a
clause that prohibits the prime contractor
on such contract from—
‘‘(i) awarding a first-tier subcontract with
a value greater than 10 percent of the total
value of the prime contract to an entity or
joint venture described in paragraph (1); or
‘‘(ii) structuring subcontract tiers in a
manner designed to avoid the limitation in
paragraph (1) by enabling an entity or joint
venture described in paragraph (1) to perform
more than 10 percent of the total value of
the prime contract as a lower-tier subcon-
tractor.
‘‘(B) PENALTIES.—The contract clause in-
cluded in contracts pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) shall provide that, in the event
that the prime contractor violates the con-
tract clause—
‘‘(i) the prime contract may be terminated
for default; and
‘‘(ii) the matter may be referred to the sus-
pension or debarment official for the appro-
priate agency and may be a basis for suspen-
sion or debarment of the prime contractor.
‘‘(b) INVERTED DOMESTIC CORPORATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, a foreign incorporated entity shall be
treated as an inverted domestic corporation
if, pursuant to a plan (or a series of related
transactions)—
‘‘(A) the entity completes on or after May
8, 2014, the direct or indirect acquisition of—
‘‘(i) substantially all of the properties held
directly or indirectly by a domestic corpora-
tion; or
‘‘(ii) substantially all of the assets of, or
substantially all of the properties consti-
tuting a trade or business of, a domestic
partnership; and
‘‘(B) after the acquisition, either—
‘‘(i) more than 50 percent of the stock (by
vote or value) of the entity is held—
‘‘(I) in the case of an acquisition with re-
spect to a domestic corporation, by former
shareholders of the domestic corporation by
reason of holding stock in the domestic cor-
poration; or
‘‘(II) in the case of an acquisition with re-
spect to a domestic partnership, by former
partners of the domestic partnership by rea-
son of holding a capital or profits interest in
the domestic partnership; or
‘‘(ii) the management and control of the
expanded affiliated group which includes the
entity occurs, directly or indirectly, pri-
marily within the United States, as deter-
mined pursuant to regulations prescribed by
the Secretary of the Treasury, and such ex-
panded affiliated group has significant do-
mestic business activities.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR CORPORATIONS WITH
SUBSTANTIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES IN FOREIGN
COUNTRY OF ORGANIZATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A foreign incorporated
entity described in paragraph (1) shall not be
treated as an inverted domestic corporation
if after the acquisition the expanded affili-
ated group which includes the entity has
substantial business activities in the foreign
country in which or under the law of which
the entity is created or organized when com-
pared to the total business activities of such
expanded affiliated group.
‘‘(B) SUBSTANTIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.—
The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Sec-
retary’s delegate) shall establish regulations
for determining whether an affiliated group
has substantial business activities for pur-
poses of subparagraph (A), except that such
regulations may not treat any group as hav-
ing substantial business activities if such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.035 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4911
July 17, 2019
group would not be considered to have sub-
stantial business activities under the regula-
tions prescribed under section 7874 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, as in effect on
January 18, 2017.
‘‘(3) SIGNIFICANT DOMESTIC BUSINESS ACTIVI-
TIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of para-
graph (1)(B)(ii), an expanded affiliated group
has significant domestic business activities
if at least 25 percent of—
‘‘(i) the employees of the group are based
in the United States;
‘‘(ii) the employee compensation incurred
by the group is incurred with respect to em-
ployees based in the United States;
‘‘(iii) the assets of the group are located in
the United States; or
‘‘(iv) the income of the group is derived in
the United States.
‘‘(B) DETERMINATION.—Determinations pur-
suant to subparagraph (A) shall be made in
the same manner as such determinations are
made for purposes of determining substantial
business activities under regulations re-
ferred to in paragraph (2) as in effect on Jan-
uary 18, 2017, but applied by treating all ref-
erences in such regulations to ‘foreign coun-
try’ and ‘relevant foreign country’ as ref-
erences to ‘the United States’. The Secretary
of the Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate)
may issue regulations decreasing the thresh-
old percent in any of the tests under such
regulations for determining if business ac-
tivities constitute significant domestic busi-
ness activities for purposes of this para-
graph.
‘‘(c) WAIVER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The head of an agency
may waive subsection (a) with respect to any
Federal Government contract under the au-
thority of such head if the head determines
that the waiver is required in the interest of
national security or is necessary for the effi-
cient or effective administration of Federal
or federally funded programs that provide
health benefits to individuals.
‘‘(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The head of an
agency issuing a waiver under paragraph (1)
shall, not later than 14 days after issuing
such waiver, submit a written notification of
the waiver to the congressional defense com-
mittees.
‘‘(d) APPLICABILITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), this section shall not apply to
any contract entered into before the date of
the enactment of this section.
‘‘(2) TASK AND DELIVERY ORDERS.—This sec-
tion shall apply to any task or delivery order
issued after the date of the enactment of this
section pursuant to a contract entered into
before, on, or after such date of enactment.
‘‘(3) SCOPE.—This section applies only to
contracts subject to regulation under the
Federal Acquisition Regulation and the De-
fense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
Regulation.
‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the
terms ‘expanded affiliated group’, ‘foreign
incorporated entity’, ‘person’, ‘domestic’,
and ‘foreign’ have the meaning given those
terms in section 835(c) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(c)).
‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULES.—In applying sub-
section (b) of this section for purposes of sub-
section (a) of this section, the rules described
under 835(c)(1) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(c)(1)) shall apply.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 137 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
2338 the following new item:
‘‘2339. Prohibition on awarding contracts to
inverted domestic corpora-
tions.’’.
(c) REGULATIONS REGARDING MANAGEMENT
AND CONTROL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate) shall,
for purposes of section 4714(b)(1)(B)(ii) of
title 41, United States Code, and section
2339(b)(1)(B)(ii) of title 10, United States
Code, as added by subsections (a) and (b), re-
spectively, prescribe regulations for purposes
of determining cases in which the manage-
ment and control of an expanded affiliated
group is to be treated as occurring, directly
or indirectly, primarily within the United
States. The regulations prescribed under the
preceding sentence shall apply to periods
after May 8, 2014.
(2) EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND SENIOR MAN-
AGEMENT.—The regulations prescribed under
paragraph (1) shall provide that the manage-
ment and control of an expanded affiliated
group shall be treated as occurring, directly
or indirectly, primarily within the United
States if substantially all of the executive
officers and senior management of the ex-
panded affiliated group who exercise day-to-
day responsibility for making decisions in-
volving strategic, financial, and operational
policies of the expanded affiliated group are
based or primarily located within the United
States. Individuals who in fact exercise such
day-to-day responsibilities shall be treated
as executive officers and senior management
regardless of their title.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
REED, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BROWN,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. SANDERS,
and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2140. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the
rules relating to inverted corporations;
to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2140
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Stop Cor-
porate Inversions Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. MODIFICATIONS TO RULES RELATING TO
INVERTED CORPORATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b) of section
7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(b) INVERTED CORPORATIONS TREATED AS
DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
7701(a)(4), a foreign corporation shall be
treated for purposes of this title as a domes-
tic corporation if—
‘‘(A) such corporation would be a surrogate
foreign corporation if subsection (a)(2) were
applied by substituting ‘80 percent’ for ‘60
percent’, or
‘‘(B) such corporation is an inverted do-
mestic corporation.
‘‘(2) INVERTED DOMESTIC CORPORATION.—For
purposes of this subsection, a foreign cor-
poration shall be treated as an inverted do-
mestic corporation if, pursuant to a plan (or
a series of related transactions)—
‘‘(A) the entity completes after May 8, 2014,
the direct or indirect acquisition of—
‘‘(i) substantially all of the properties held
directly or indirectly by a domestic corpora-
tion, or
‘‘(ii) substantially all of the assets of, or
substantially all of the properties consti-
tuting a trade or business of, a domestic
partnership, and
‘‘(B) after the acquisition, either—
‘‘(i) more than 50 percent of the stock (by
vote or value) of the entity is held—
‘‘(I) in the case of an acquisition with re-
spect to a domestic corporation, by former
shareholders of the domestic corporation by
reason of holding stock in the domestic cor-
poration, or
‘‘(II) in the case of an acquisition with re-
spect to a domestic partnership, by former
partners of the domestic partnership by rea-
son of holding a capital or profits interest in
the domestic partnership, or
‘‘(ii) the management and control of the
expanded affiliated group which includes the
entity occurs, directly or indirectly, pri-
marily within the United States, and such
expanded affiliated group has significant do-
mestic business activities.
‘‘(3) EXCEPTION FOR CORPORATIONS WITH
SUBSTANTIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES IN FOREIGN
COUNTRY OF ORGANIZATION.—A foreign cor-
poration described in paragraph (2) shall not
be treated as an inverted domestic corpora-
tion if after the acquisition the expanded af-
filiated group which includes the entity has
substantial business activities in the foreign
country in which or under the law of which
the entity is created or organized when com-
pared to the total business activities of such
expanded affiliated group. For purposes of
subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii) and the preceding
sentence, the term ‘substantial business ac-
tivities’ shall have the meaning given such
term under regulations in effect on January
18, 2017, except that the Secretary may issue
regulations increasing the threshold percent
in any of the tests under such regulations for
determining if business activities constitute
substantial business activities for purposes
of this paragraph.
‘‘(4) MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL.—For pur-
poses of paragraph (2)(B)(ii)—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pre-
scribe regulations for purposes of deter-
mining cases in which the management and
control of an expanded affiliated group is to
be treated as occurring, directly or indi-
rectly, primarily within the United States.
The regulations prescribed under the pre-
ceding sentence shall apply to periods after
May 8, 2014.
‘‘(B) EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND SENIOR MAN-
AGEMENT.—Such regulations shall provide
that the management and control of an ex-
panded affiliated group shall be treated as
occurring, directly or indirectly, primarily
within the United States if substantially all
of the executive officers and senior manage-
ment of the expanded affiliated group who
exercise day-to-day responsibility for mak-
ing decisions involving strategic, financial,
and operational policies of the expanded af-
filiated group are based or primarily located
within the United States. Individuals who in
fact exercise such day-to-day responsibilities
shall be treated as executive officers and
senior management regardless of their title.
‘‘(5) SIGNIFICANT DOMESTIC BUSINESS ACTIVI-
TIES.—For purposes of paragraph (2)(B)(ii),
an expanded affiliated group has significant
domestic business activities if at least 25
percent of—
‘‘(A) the employees of the group are based
in the United States,
‘‘(B) the employee compensation incurred
by the group is incurred with respect to em-
ployees based in the United States,
‘‘(C) the assets of the group are located in
the United States, or
‘‘(D) the income of the group is derived in
the United States,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:11 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.035 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4912 July 17, 2019
determined in the same manner as such de-
terminations are made for purposes of deter-
mining substantial business activities under
regulations referred to in paragraph (3) as in
effect on January 18, 2017, but applied by
treating all references in such regulations to
‘foreign country’ and ‘relevant foreign coun-
try’ as references to ‘the United States’. The
Secretary may issue regulations decreasing
the threshold percent in any of the tests
under such regulations for determining if
business activities constitute significant do-
mestic business activities for purposes of
this paragraph.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Clause (i) of section 7874(a)(2)(B) of such
Code is amended by striking ‘‘after March 4,
2003,’’ and inserting ‘‘after March 4, 2003, and
before May 8, 2014,’’.
(2) Subsection (c) of section 7874 of such
Code is amended—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii)’’
and inserting ‘‘subsections (a)(2)(B)(ii) and
(b)(2)(B)(i)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or (b)(2)(A)’’ after
‘‘(a)(2)(B)(i)’’ in subparagraph (B);
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘or
(b)(2)(B)(i), as the case may be,’’ after
‘‘(a)(2)(B)(ii)’’;
(C) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (a)(2)(B)(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
sections (a)(2)(B)(ii) and (b)(2)(B)(i)’’; and
(D) in paragraph (6), by inserting ‘‘or in-
verted domestic corporation, as the case may
be,’’ after ‘‘surrogate foreign corporation’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years ending after May 8, 2014.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms.
SINEMA, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. MCSALLY, and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 2147. A bill to double the existing
penalties for the provision of mis-
leading or inaccurate caller identifica-
tion information, and to extend the
statute of limitations for forfeiture
penalties for persons who commit such
violations; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to introduce the ‘‘Anti-Spoofing
Penalty Modernization Act of 2019’’
with my colleague, Senator SINEMA,
who serves with me on the Senate
Committee on Aging, which I chair. I
am also pleased that Senators HAWLEY,
PETERS, and MCSALLY have joined as
original cosponsors.
This morning, the Senate Aging
Committee held its 23rd hearing in the
past six years to examine scams tar-
geting our Nation’s seniors. Scams the
Committee has examined include the
infamous IRS imposter scam the Ja-
maican Lottery scam, computer tech
support scams, grandparent scams,
elder financial exploitation, identity
theft, and the notorious ‘‘Drug Mule’’
scam—where seniors are tricked into
unwittingly serving as drug couriers.
Two things are central to nearly all
of these scams: first, the scams are ini-
tiated by robocallers who cast a wide
net in their hunt for potential victims,
and second, the scammers ‘‘spoof’ the
victim’s Caller-ID to mask their iden-
tity, a key to the success of their out-
rageous frauds. When victims see the
‘‘Internal Revenue Service’’ or the
‘‘local Sheriff’s Department’’ pop-up on
their Caller-ID, they are understand-
ably worried, scared, and often easily
hustled into doing whatever the
scammers demand.
Last year, robocallers generated
more than 26 billion unwanted calls
that reached American mobile phones.
When landlines are included, the num-
ber soars to 48 billion. In Maine alone,
our residents received an astonishing
93 million robocalls last year. That
averages out to 73 calls to every person
in Maine. So far this year, scammers
are on pace to generate more than 58
billion unwanted, illegal robocalls tar-
geting Americans.
Putting a stop to these illegal
robocalls requires a coordinated ap-
proach from all levels of our govern-
ment, working in coordination with
the private sector. Recently, this body
overwhelmingly passed the bipartisan
‘‘TRACED Act,’’ which makes a num-
ber of important changes to our law
that will help make it easier to fight il-
legal robocalls, such as increasing civil
penalties on robocallers and extending
the statute of limitations for viola-
tions to three years. The TRACED Act
also requires telecommunications car-
riers to implement the so-called SHAK-
EN/STIR technology to verify whether
Caller-IDs that appear on incoming
calls are authentic. When fully imple-
mented, this technology will be a
major advance against illegal spoofing.
I am pleased to be a cosponsor of the
TRACED Act, and I am hopeful it will
soon become law.
The bipartisan bill we are intro-
ducing today complements the
TRACED Act by doubling the penalties
on illegal spoofing. Except for inflation
adjustments, the penalties on illegal
spoofing have not been updated since
they were first passed into law through
the Truth in Caller ID Act of 2009. Our
bill also extends the statute of limita-
tions to three years for spoofing viola-
tions to match the extension for
robocalling violations included in the
TRACED Act.
Mr. President, putting an end to the
scourge of illegal robocalls will take an
aware public, aggressive action by reg-
ulators and law enforcement agencies,
and a coordinated effort at every level
of our telecommunications industry.
The enhanced penalties called for by
the ‘‘Anti-Spoofing Penalty Moderniza-
tion Act’’ are an important tool in the
fight. I urge my colleagues to support
this legislation.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 277—REMEM-
BERING THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE BOMBING OF THE AR-
GENTINE ISRAELITE MUTUAL
ASSOCIATION (AMIA) JEWISH
COMMUNITY CENTER IN BUENOS
AIRES, ARGENTINA, AND RECOM-
MITTING TO EFFORTS TO UP-
HOLD JUSTICE FOR THE 85 VIC-
TIMS OF THE ATTACKS
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
KAINE, and Mr. YOUNG) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 277
Whereas, on July 18, 1994, a car bomb deto-
nated at the Argentine Israelite Mutual As-
sociation (AMIA) Jewish Community Center
building in Buenos Aires, killing 85 people
and wounding more than 300 others, ren-
dering it the deadliest terrorist attack in Ar-
gentina’s history;
Whereas Argentina is home to the largest
Jewish community in Latin America—and
the sixth largest in the world, outside Israel;
Whereas, for 25 years, the investigation
into the bombing has been stymied by inter-
national inaction, political interference, in-
vestigative misconduct, and allegations of
cover-ups, including the removal of the fed-
eral judge in charge of the case in 2005 for
‘‘serious’’ irregularities in his handling of
the case;
Whereas, in November 2005, a joint inves-
tigation by the Argentine Secretariat of In-
telligence (SIDE) and the Federal Bureau of
Investigations (FBI) concluded that the at-
tack against AMIA was a suicide bombing
carried out by Ibrahim Hussein Berro, a 21-
year-old operative of Hezbollah, which is
based in Lebanon and sponsored by the Gov-
ernment of the Islamic Republic of Iran;
Whereas, in October 2006, Argentine pros-
ecutors Alberto Nisman and Marcelo Martı́n
Burgos formally accused the Government of
Iran of directing Hezbollah to carry out the
AMIA bombing;
Whereas the Argentine prosecutors
charged the following Iranian nationals as
suspects in the AMIA bombing:
(1) Ali Fallahijan, Iran’s former intel-
ligence minster;
(2) Mohsen Rabbani, Iran’s former cultural
attaché in Buenos Aires;
(3) Ahmad Reza Asghari, a former Iranian
diplomat posted to Argentina;
(4) Ahmad Vahidi, Iran’s former defense
minister;
(5) Ali Akbar Velayati, Iran’s former for-
eign minister;
(6) Mohsen Rezaee, former chief com-
mander of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps;
(7) Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, former
President of Iran; and
(8) Hadi Soleimanpour, former Iranian am-
bassador to Argentina;
Whereas, in November 2007, the Inter-
national Criminal Police Organization
(INTERPOL) published Red Notices on 5 of
the Iranian nationals and Hezbollah opera-
tive Ibrahim Hussein Berro;
Whereas, in January 2013, the Administra-
tion of then-President Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner signed a Memorandum of Under-
standing with Iran to set up a ‘‘truth com-
mission’’ to investigate who was responsible
for the AMIA bombing, despite Iran and its
proxies’ status as the only suspects in the at-
tack;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.039 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4913
July 17, 2019
Whereas, in January 2013, Argentina’s
then-Minister of Foreign Relations, Hector
Timerman, and his Iranian counterpart, Ali
Akbar Salehi, sent a joint notice to
INTERPOL that led the general secretariat
to issue a ‘‘caveat’’ that in effect relaxed im-
plementation of the Red Notices;
Whereas, in May 2013, Argentine pros-
ecutor Alberto Nisman published a 500-page
report accusing the Government of Iran of
establishing terrorist networks throughout
Latin America, including in Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, Colombia,
Guyana, Suriname, and Trinidad and To-
bago, dating back to the 1980s;
Whereas, in January 2015, Mr. Nisman re-
leased the results of an investigation alleg-
ing that then-President Fernandez de
Kirchner and then-Foreign Minister
Timerman conspired to cover up Iranian in-
volvement in the 1994 AMIA bombing and
that they had agreed to negotiate immunity
for Iranian suspects and secure the removal
of the INTERPOL Red Notices;
Whereas Mr. Nisman’s investigation had
uncovered evidence, including wire-taps of
phone calls ‘‘between people close to Mrs.
Kirchner’’ and a number of Iranians such as
Iran’s then Cultural Attaché Mohsen
Rabbani, of a secret 2013 deal between the
Governments of Argentina and Iran to nor-
malize relations and trade Iranian oil for Ar-
gentine grain;
Whereas Mr. Nisman was scheduled to
present his findings to a commission of the
Argentine National Congress on January 19,
2015, but on January 18, 2015, was found dead
as the result of a gunshot wound to his head
in his apartment in Buenos Aires;
Whereas officials in the Administration of
then-President Fernandez de Kirchner
sought to discredit Mr. Nisman after his sus-
picious death, and in May 2015, an Argentine
federal court dismissed Mr. Nisman’s find-
ings against Ms. Fernandez de Kirchner and
other officials;
Whereas, in March 2015, an independent in-
vestigation launched by Mr. Nisman’s family
released its own report by forensic experts
and forensic pathologists showing that his
death was not an accident or suicide, and
that his body had been moved after he was
shot;
Whereas, in September 2017, forensic inves-
tigators of the Argentine National Gendar-
merie submitted a new report to a federal
court concluding that Mr. Nisman did not
commit suicide, but that he was drugged,
beaten, and fatally shot in the head on Janu-
ary 18, 2015;
Whereas, in November 2017, Argentine
media revealed that Iranian foreign minister
Mohammad Javad Zarif had sent a letter to
the Argentine foreign minister, Jorge
Faurie, confirming that included in the 2013
oil-for-grain deal were efforts to have
INTERPOL terminate the Red Notices for
the Iranian nationals;
Whereas, in March 2018, Argentine authori-
ties indicted former President Fernandez de
Kirchner on charges that she helped cover up
Iran’s role in the 1994 AMIA bombing;
Whereas no one yet has been brought to
justice for the death of Argentine prosecutor
Alberto Nisman, nor have any of the named
Iranian suspects faced prosecution for their
role in the 1994 AMIA bombing;
Whereas the suspects continue to travel
globally with impunity, as demonstrated by
the refusal of Russian and Chinese officials
in July 2018 to comply with an Argentine
Federal judge’s request that they arrest and
extradite former Iranian foreign minister Ali
Akbar Velayati on the grounds he ordered
the bombing, and previous attempts by Ar-
gentina to arrest Valeyati in Singapore and
Malaysia in 2016 that were also unsuccessful;
Whereas, in September 2018, Argentine
Vice President Gabriela Michetti repeated
the pleas of previous Argentine officials
seeking help from the international commu-
nity to bring the Iranian suspects to justice;
Whereas, in March 2019, the former Argen-
tine judge removed for misconduct in the
early days of the AMIA bombing investiga-
tion, Juan Jose Galeano, was sentenced to 6
years in prison and former Argentine Intel-
ligence (SIDE) chief Hugo Anzorreguy was
sentenced to 41⁄2 years for their roles in a
cover-up of Iran’s complicity; and
Whereas in the days leading up to July 18,
2019, 25 years after the AMIA bombing, the
Government of Argentina indicated it would
list Hezbollah as a terrorist entity: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) reiterates its strongest condemnation of
the 1994 attack on the Argentine Israelite
Mutual Association (AMIA) Jewish Commu-
nity Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina;
(2) honors the victims of the 1994 AMIA
bombing and expresses its sympathy to the
relatives of the victims, who are still waiting
for justice;
(3) expresses serious concern about Iran’s
influence networks in the Western Hemi-
sphere and urges the President of the United
States to continue to monitor Iran’s activi-
ties in the region as mandated by the Coun-
tering Iran in the Western Hemisphere Act of
2012 (Public Law 112–220);
(4) recognizes the work of Argentine Pros-
ecutor Alberto Nisman and his dedication to
investigating the AMIA bombing and ex-
presses serious concern regarding attempts
by former President Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner and her government to discredit
Mr. Nisman‘s findings on the AMIA bombing;
(5) commends Argentine President
Mauricio Macri’s continued call for a swift,
transparent, and independent investigation
into Mr. Nisman’s death, recognizes the Ar-
gentine National Gendarmerie’s extensive
work to produce credible, evidence-based
findings, and urges an independent inquiry
into Mr. Nisman’s findings on the 2013 oil-
for-grain deal between Argentina and Iran;
(6) underscores the concern of the United
States regarding the continuing, 25-year-
long delay in resolving the bombing case and
urges the President of the United States to
offer technical assistance to the Government
of Argentina to support the ongoing inves-
tigation and determine responsibility for the
death of Argentine prosecutor Alberto
Nisman;
(7) commends the Government of Argen-
tina for formally recognizing Hezbollah’s
role in the AMIA bombing and taking steps
to hold the organization accountable for the
attack; and
(8) commemorates the 25th anniversary of
the AMIA bombing by recommitting to hold
accountable those who planned and executed
the 1994 AMIA bombing until justice is
served.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 22—EXPRESSING THE
SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT
THERE IS A CLIMATE EMER-
GENCY WHICH DEMANDS A MAS-
SIVE-SCALE MOBILIZATION TO
HALT, REVERSE, AND ADDRESS
ITS CONSEQUENCES AND CAUSES
Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BOOKER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. WARREN, and Ms.
HARRIS) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works:
S. CON. RES. 22
Whereas 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 were the 4
hottest years on record and the 20 warmest
years on record have occurred within the
past 22 years;
Whereas global atmospheric concentra-
tions of the primary heat-trapping gas, or
greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide—
(1) have increased by 40 percent since
preindustrial times, from 280 parts per mil-
lion to 415 parts per million, primarily due to
human activities, including burning fossil
fuels and deforestation;
(2) are rising at a rate of 2 to 3 parts per
million annually; and
(3) must be reduced to not more than 350
parts per million, and likely lower, ‘‘if hu-
manity wishes to preserve a planet similar
to that on which civilization developed and
to which life on Earth is adapted,’’ according
to former National Aeronautics and Space
Administration climatologist, Dr. James
Hansen;
Whereas global atmospheric concentra-
tions of other greenhouse gases, including
methane, nitrous oxide, and
hydrofluorocarbons, have also increased sub-
stantially since preindustrial times, pri-
marily due to human activities, including
burning fossil fuels;
Whereas current climate science and real-
world observations of climate change im-
pacts, including ocean warming and acidifi-
cation, floods, droughts, wildfires, and ex-
treme weather, demonstrate that a global
rise in temperatures of 1 degree Celsius
above preindustrial levels is already having
dangerous impacts on human populations
and the environment;
Whereas the 2018 National Climate Assess-
ment found that climate change due to glob-
al warming has caused, and is expected to
cause additional, substantial interference
with and growing losses to infrastructure,
property, industry, recreation, natural re-
sources, agricultural systems, human health
and safety, and quality of life in the United
States;
Whereas the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration has determined that
climate change is already increasing the fre-
quency of extreme weather and other cli-
mate-related disasters, including drought,
wildfire, and storms that include precipita-
tion;
Whereas climate-related natural disasters
have increased exponentially over the past
decade, costing the United States more than
double the long-term average during the pe-
riod of 2014 through 2018, with total costs of
natural disasters during that period of ap-
proximately $100,000,000,000 per year;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention have found wide-ranging,
acute, and fatal public health consequences
from climate change that impact commu-
nities across the United States;
Whereas the National Climate and Health
Assessment of the United States Global
Change Research Program identified climate
change as a significant threat to the health
of the people of the United States, leading to
increased—
(1) temperature-related deaths and ill-
nesses;
(2) air quality impacts;
(3) extreme weather events;
(4) numbers of vector-borne diseases;
(5) waterborne illnesses;
(6) food safety, nutrition, and distribution
complications; and
(7) mental health and well-being concerns;
Whereas the consequences of climate
change already disproportionately impact
frontline communities and endanger popu-
lations made especially vulnerable by exist-
ing exposure to extreme weather events,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.043 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4914 July 17, 2019
such as children, the elderly, and individuals
with pre-existing disabilities and health con-
ditions;
Whereas individuals and families on the
frontlines of climate change across the
United States, including territories, living
with income inequality and poverty, institu-
tional racism, inequity on the basis of gen-
der and sexual orientation, poor infrastruc-
ture, and lack of access to health care, hous-
ing, clean water, and food security are often
in close proximity to environmental
stressors or sources of pollution, particularly
communities of color, indigenous commu-
nities, and low-income communities, which—
(1) experience outsized risk because of the
close proximity of the community to envi-
ronmental hazards and stressors, in addition
to colocation with waste and other sources
of pollution;
(2) are often the first exposed to the im-
pacts of climate change; and
(3) have the fewest resources to mitigate
those impacts or to relocate, which will ex-
acerbate preexisting challenges;
Whereas, according to Dr. Robert Bullard
and Dr. Beverly Wright, ‘‘environmental and
public health threats from natural and
human-made disasters are not randomly dis-
tributed,’’ therefore a response to the cli-
mate emergency necessitates the adoption of
just community transition policies and proc-
esses available to all communities, which in-
clude policies and processes rooted in prin-
ciples of racial and socio-economic equity,
self-determination, and democracy, as well
as the fundamental human right of all people
to clean air and water, healthy food, health
care, adequate land, education, and shelter;
Whereas climate change holds grave and
immediate consequences not just for the
population of the United States, including
territories, but for communities across the
world, particularly those communities in the
Global South on the frontlines of the climate
crisis, which are at risk of forced displace-
ment;
Whereas communities in rural, urban, and
suburban areas are all dramatically affected
by climate change, though the specific eco-
nomic, health, social, and environmental im-
pacts may be different;
Whereas the United States Department of
State, Department of Defense, and intel-
ligence community have identified climate
change as a threat to national security, and
the Department of Homeland Security views
climate change as a top homeland security
risk;
Whereas climate change is a threat multi-
plier—
(1) with the potential to exacerbate many
of the challenges the United States already
confronts, including conflicts over scarce re-
sources, conditions conducive to violent ex-
tremism, and the spread of infectious dis-
eases; and
(2) because climate change has the poten-
tial to produce new, unforeseeable challenges
in the future;
Whereas, in 2018, the United Nations Inter-
governmental Panel on Climate Change pro-
jected that the Earth could warm 1.5 degrees
Celsius above preindustrial levels as early as
2030;
Whereas the climatic changes resulting
from global warming above 1.5 degrees Cel-
sius above preindustrial levels, including
changes resulting from global warming of
more than 2 degrees Celsius above
preindustrial levels, are projected to result
in irreversible, catastrophic changes to pub-
lic health, livelihoods, quality of life, food
security, water supplies, human security,
and economic growth;
Whereas, in 2019, the United Nations Inter-
governmental Science-Policy Platform on
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services found
that human-induced climate change is push-
ing the planet toward the sixth mass species
extinction, which threatens the food secu-
rity, water supply, and well-being of billions
of people;
Whereas, according to climate scientists,
limiting warming to no more than 1.5 de-
grees Celsius above preindustrial levels, and
likely lower, is most likely to avoid irrevers-
ible and catastrophic climate change;
Whereas, even with global warming up to
1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels,
the planet is projected to experience—
(1) a significant rise in sea levels;
(2) extraordinary loss of biodiversity; and
(3) intensifying droughts, prodigious
floods, devastating wildfires, and other ex-
treme weather events;
Whereas, according to climate scientists,
addressing the climate emergency will re-
quire an economically just and managed
phase-out oil, gas, and coal to keep fossil
fuels in the ground;
Whereas the United Nations Intergovern-
mental Panel on Climate Change has deter-
mined that limiting warming through emis-
sions reduction and carbon sequestration
will require rapid, and immediate, accelera-
tion and proliferation of ‘‘far-reaching,
multilevel, and cross-sectoral climate miti-
gation’’ and ‘‘transitions in energy, land,
urban and rural infrastructure (including
transport and buildings), and industrial sys-
tems’’;
Whereas, in the United States, massive,
comprehensive, and urgent governmental ac-
tion is required immediately to achieve the
transitions of those systems in response to
the severe existing and projected economic,
social, public health, and national security
threats posed by the climate crisis;
Whereas the massive scope and scale of ac-
tion necessary to stabilize the climate will
require unprecedented levels of public aware-
ness, engagement, and deliberation to de-
velop and implement effective, just, and eq-
uitable policies to address the climate crisis;
Whereas failure to mobilize to solve the
climate emergency is antithetical to the
spirit of the Declaration of Independence in
protecting ‘‘unalienable Rights’’ that include
‘‘Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness’’;
Whereas the United States has a proud his-
tory of collaborative, constructive, massive-
scale Federal mobilizations of resources and
labor in order to solve great challenges, such
as the Interstate Highway System, the Apol-
lo 11 Moon landing, Reconstruction, the New
Deal, and World War II;
Whereas the United States stands uniquely
poised to substantially grow the economy
and attain social and health benefits from a
massive mobilization of resources and labor
that far outweigh the costs of inaction;
Whereas millions of middle class jobs can
be created by raising labor standards
through project labor agreements and pro-
tecting and expanding the right of workers
to organize so that workers in the United
States and the communities of those workers
are guaranteed a strong, viable economic fu-
ture in a zero-emissions economy that guar-
antees good jobs at fair union wages, with
quality benefits;
Whereas frontline communities, Tribal
governments and communities, people of
color, and labor unions must be equitably
and actively engaged in the climate mobili-
zation and prioritized through local climate
mitigation and adaptation planning, policy,
and program delivery so that workers in the
United States, the communities of those
workers, are guaranteed a strong, viable eco-
nomic future;
Whereas a number of local jurisdictions
and governments in the United States, in-
cluding New York City and Los Angeles, and
across the world, including the United King-
dom, the Republic of Ireland, Portugal, and
Canada, have already declared a climate
emergency, and a number of State and local
governments are considering declaring a cli-
mate emergency in response to the massive
challenges posed by the climate crisis;
Whereas State, local, and Tribal govern-
ments must be supported in efforts to hold to
account actors whose activities have deep-
ened and accelerated the climate crisis and
who have benefitted from delayed action to
address the climate change emergency and
to develop a fossil fuel-free economy;
Whereas a collaborative response to the
climate crisis will require the Federal Gov-
ernment to work with international, State,
and local governments, including with those
governments that have declared a climate
emergency, to reverse the impacts of the cli-
mate crisis; and
Whereas the United States has an obliga-
tion, as a driver of accelerated climate
change, to mobilize at emergency speed to
restore a safe climate and environment not
just for communities of the United States,
including territories, but for communities
across the world, particularly those on the
frontlines of the climate crisis who have
least contributed to the crisis, and to ac-
count for global and community impacts of
any actions it takes in response to the cli-
mate crisis: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That it is the sense
of Congress that—
(1) the global warming caused by human
activities, which increase emissions of green-
house gases, has resulted in a climate emer-
gency that—
(A) severely and urgently impacts the eco-
nomic and social well-being, health and safe-
ty, and national security of the United
States; and
(B) demands a national, social, industrial,
and economic mobilization of the resources
and labor of the United States at a massive-
scale to halt, reverse, mitigate, and prepare
for the consequences of the climate emer-
gency and to restore the climate for future
generations; and
(2) nothing in this concurrent resolution
constitutes a declaration of a national emer-
gency for purposes of any Act of Congress
authorizing the exercise, during the period of
a national emergency or other type of de-
clared emergency, of any special or extraor-
dinary power.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 9
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 17, 2019, at
10:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, July 17, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.045 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4915
July 17, 2019
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, July
17, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing on the following nominations:
Michelle A. Bekkering, of the District
of Columbia, to be an Assistant Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency
for International Development, and
Richard K. Bell, of Pennsylvania, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Cote
d’Ivoire, Jessica E. Lapenn, of New
York, to be Representative of the
United States of America to the Afri-
can Union, with the rank and status of
Ambassador, Mary Beth Leonard, of
Massachusetts, to be Ambassador to
the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and
Lana J. Marks, of Florida, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of South Afri-
ca, all of the Department of State.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Tuesday, July 16, 2019, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 17,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 17,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing
following nominations: Halil Suleyman
Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Cir-
cuit, David B. Barlow, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Utah, John Fitzgerald Kness, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Illinois, and Eleni
Maria Roumel, of Maryland, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
The Special Committee on Aging is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 17,
2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ECONOMIC POLICY
The Subcommittee on Economic Pol-
icy of the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 17, 2019, at
9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON REGULATORY AFFAIRS AND
FEDERAL MANAGEMENT
The Subcommittee on Regulatory Af-
fairs and Federal Management of the
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, July 17, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Abigail
Brown, an intern in my office, be
granted floor privileges through Au-
gust 2, 2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
DEFENDING THE INTEGRITY OF
VOTING SYSTEMS ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 95, S. 1321.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1321) to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit interference with
voting systems under the Computer Fraud
and Abuse Act.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on the Judiciary.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 1321) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 1321
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Defending
the Integrity of Voting Systems Act’’.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON INTERFERENCE WITH
VOTING SYSTEMS.
Section 1030(e) of title 18, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘or’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by adding ‘‘or’’ at
the end; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) that—
‘‘(i) is part of a voting system; and
‘‘(ii)(I) is used for the management, sup-
port, or administration of a Federal election;
or
‘‘(II) has moved in or otherwise affects
interstate or foreign commerce;’’;
(2) in paragraph (11), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (12), by striking the period
and inserting a semicolon; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(13) the term ‘Federal election’ means any
election (as defined in section 301(1) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30101(1))) for Federal office (as defined
in section 301(3) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101(3))); and
‘‘(14) the term ‘voting system’ has the
meaning given the term in section 301(b) of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21081(b)).’’.
f
RESTORE THE HARMONY WAY
BRIDGE ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 120, S. 1833.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1833) to transfer a bridge over the
Wabash River to the New Harmony River
Bridge Authority and the New Harmony and
Wabash River Bridge Authority, and for
other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be read a third
time and passed and the motion to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 1833) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 1833
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Restore the
Harmony Way Bridge Act’’.
SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF BRIDGE AND LAND.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Act
of April 12, 1941 (55 Stat. 140, chapter 71), not
later than 180 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the White County Bridge
Commission shall convey, without consider-
ation, to the New Harmony River Bridge Au-
thority and the New Harmony and Wabash
River Bridge Authority, any and all right,
title, and interest of the Commission in and
to the bridge across the Wabash River at or
near New Harmony, Indiana, the approaches
to the bridge, and the land underneath or ad-
jacent to the bridge and the approaches to
the bridge.
SEC. 3. REPEAL.
The Act of April 12, 1941 (55 Stat. 140, chap-
ter 71), is repealed effective on the date that
the White County Bridge Commission com-
pletes the conveyance described in section 2.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, JULY 18,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Thursday, July
18; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Corker nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.046 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4916 July 17, 2019
previous order following the remarks of
our Democratic colleagues and Senator
SULLIVAN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President,
for a long time, people opposed to cli-
mate action said that tackling climate
change would be too costly, would
harm economic growth, would be bad
for American businesses, and would
kill jobs. It turns out these were phony
arguments peddled by fossil fuel inter-
ests. It turns out they are flat wrong.
It turns out that actually the true eco-
nomic hazard is not climate action but
climate inaction.
We have recently seen an explosion of
warnings from economic regulators,
central banks, insurers, investment
firms, and risk analysts that we face
economic peril if we fail to address cli-
mate change. These are not green
groups; these are neutral business and
economic experts—the people whose
job it is to protect us from risks to fi-
nancial stability and the people who
make a business calculation about
what we stand to lose from unabated
climate change.
Their warnings are many, and their
warnings are serious. One example:
Just last month, Moody’s warned that
climate change will increasingly dis-
rupt and damage critical infrastructure
and property and will hurt worker
health and productivity across the
globe. Moody’s, the credit rating giant,
estimated—hang on—$69 trillion. We
talk about millions around here pretty
readily. We talk about billions when we
are talking about really big money.
Moody’s estimated $69 trillion of eco-
nomic damage globally by 2100, even if
we limit global warming to only 2 de-
grees Celsius. The Presiding Officer
and I are probably not going to pay a
lot of that. The pages will. We are not
currently on track for only 2 degrees
Celsius; we are currently on track for
around 3 degrees of warming, which
Moody’s said would put us at further
risk of hitting tipping points beyond
which lurk far larger, more lasting,
and more ominous dangers.
Here is another example: In May, the
European Central Bank warned that
climate change presents significant
economic risks to the economy, to
asset values, and to financial stability.
The longer we wait, the longer we
fiddle around in this Chamber not
doing anything, the more it will cost to
protect ourselves in the future. That
old saying about a stitch in time sav-
ing nine applies here as well.
The ECB said that these risks could
cause what they called ‘‘systemic
issues,’’ especially where markets do
not price climate-related risks cor-
rectly. ‘‘Systemic issues’’ is a bland
term. It is central banker-speak. What
it means is something pretty serious.
Systemic issues means this is so bad
that it could take down the entire
economy. The European Central Bank
is not alone. The Bank of England has
been warning of systemic risk from cli-
mate change or from not doing any-
thing about climate change for some
time now. I think there are now over 30
sovereign banks that have made or
adopted such warnings.
Just last week, Senator SCHATZ
asked Federal Chairman Powell wheth-
er severe weather is increasing due to
climate change. Powell did not equivo-
cate. He said simply: ‘‘I believe it is,
yes.’’ That is the leader of the most in-
fluential bank in the world accepting
without hesitation a major threat to
our financial system, echoed also by a
Federal Reserve report out of Cali-
fornia. Climate change, they point out,
is a major threat to our financial sys-
tem, to everything from coastal real
estate values, which Freddie Mac pre-
dicts will crash, to stock market share
prices, about which there are numerous
adverse predictions if this goes un-
checked.
America’s biggest financial institu-
tions see what is coming. In the House
Financial Services Committee hearing
in April, CEOs from six of America’s
biggest banks agreed that climate
change is a serious risk to the financial
system, and they said they are trying
to take action to address that risk.
There is an unfortunate sidebar, how-
ever. Big American banks that claim to
support climate action include four of
our biggest banks: JPMorgan Chase,
Wells Fargo, Citigroup, and Bank of
America. These banks all supported the
Paris Agreement. In 2017, the CEOs of
JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, and Bank
of America even signed a letter urging
President Trump not to withdraw from
the Paris Agreement.
These banks are all trying to reduce
their own emissions, and all have com-
mitments to get to 100 percent renew-
able electricity—all good steps. But the
biggest direct impact these banks have
on climate is not through the promises
they make but through the invest-
ments they make. On that score, these
four banks are steering us to climate
calamity.
A group of environmental organiza-
tions released a report in March adding
up fossil fuel financing by 33 large, pri-
vate sector banks from around the
world. These four American banks—
JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo,
Citigroup, and Bank of America, which
all support the Paris Agreement and
are all reducing their own carbon emis-
sions—they are the four largest funders
of fossil fuel projects. Combined, they
invested over $580 billion in new fossil
fuel projects over the past 3 years.
JPMorgan was the worst, with $196 bil-
lion of fossil fuel funding in 3 years.
JPMorgan was also the top U.S. funder
of tar sands, Arctic oil and gas, and
coal mining—the most emissions-in-
tensive fuels.
The big American banks accounted
for over a third of the surveyed global
fossil fuel financing since the Paris
Agreement was signed in 2015. Worse,
their investment in fossil fuel projects
actually increased after the Paris
Agreement. Wells Fargo nearly doubled
its fossil fuel financing from 2016 to
2018. Obviously, these investments in
new fossil fuel projects do not align
with the banks’ stated support of the
Paris Agreement. The math doesn’t
work. The Paris Agreement aims to
limit warming to well below 2 degrees
Celsius and to try to limit warming to
1.5 degrees Celsius.
A study just published by Nature
shows that the world’s existing fossil
fuel infrastructure will emit enough
carbon pollution to blow us past 1.5 de-
grees of warming. The authors wrote
that little or no additional CO2-emit-
ting infrastructure can be commis-
sioned. Little or no additional CO2-
emitting infrastructure can be com-
missioned if we are to meet the Paris
Agreement climate goals.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent the article titled ‘‘How Much
Global Warming Is Fossil Fuel Infra-
structure Locking In?’’ from Inside Cli-
mate News be printed in the RECORD at
the end of my remarks.
That is the math. If the banks are
true to their stated support of the
Paris Agreement, they should not fi-
nance any new fossil fuel projects—un-
less, of course, they also finance cap-
turing all the carbon emissions, and
they are not doing that.
It is true that these banks have an-
nounced goals to increase their financ-
ing of clean and sustainable projects,
but they are only goals, and combined,
even their goals only amount to around
$100 billion per year, which is about
half of what they have actually in-
vested in fossil fuel projects each year
since Paris.
Citi even released a report finding
that maintaining our current fossil
fuel-heavy economy would cost more
than moving to clean, low-carbon econ-
omy—cost more to stay in the fossil
fuel economy than to move to a clean
energy economy—and they said that is
not including factoring in the eco-
nomic damage from climate change,
which Citi reckons could total $72 tril-
lion—$72 trillion under business as
usual. Citi projects that transitioning
away from the projects they are invest-
ing in to a low-carbon economy will
save money on its own and it will help
avoid tens of trillions of dollars in fur-
ther economic damages. Yet they
aren’t investing consistent with their
principles.
According to the International Mone-
tary Fund, fossil fuels are subsidized to
the tune of $650 billion per year in the
United States. So there is no question
that this massive subsidy—probably
the biggest subsidy in the history of
the planet—makes investing in fossil
fuels profitable. But the contradiction
remains. These banks all say they sup-
port the Paris Agreement. They all rec-
ognize that it is economically vital to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.058 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4917
July 17, 2019
reach the goals of the Paris Agree-
ment. Yet their investments would en-
sure that the Paris Agreement fails.
It would help banks change their
ways if companies had to disclose their
climate risks better. I just joined Sen-
ator WARREN in a bill we have done to
require publicly traded companies to
reveal their exposure to climate-re-
lated risks.
But we have a proposal—Senator
SCHATZ, Senator HEINRICH, and I—to
help resolve the very root of the banks’
contradiction: that Congress put a
price on carbon emissions and an end
to fossil fuel subsidies. Indeed,
JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon
recommended this in the House Finan-
cial Services Committee hearing in
April. When asked whether his bank
will phase out fossil fuel funding and
align its investments with the goals of
the Paris Agreement, he said: ‘‘If you
want to fix this problem, you are going
to have to do something like a carbon
tax.’’
So, bankers, help us do that. If these
bankers think climate is a serious
problem—and they say they do—and
that putting a price on carbon pollu-
tion is the solution, which virtually
every economist agrees with—hello,
you need to come here and fight to
make it happen. Banks have political
influence. Lord knows, they never stop
throwing their influence around here
when it comes to financial regulations
or tax giveaways. Where are they in
Congress on climate? It is a long pause
waiting for them to show up. So, guys,
talk is cheap. Come on. Put a little ef-
fort into this. Pretend it is a financial
regulation.
The carbon fee bill of Senators
SCHATZ, HEINRICH, and GILLIBRAND
would help these banks align their in-
vestments with their stated goals. Our
bill meets the key standards of being
effective on carbon emissions, driving
far more reductions than the Clean
Power Plan, revenue neutral in the
economy, and border adjustable for
trade. It meets all three. Plus, it will
help avoid the dreadful economic warn-
ings now so frequently heard from very
responsible sources about doing noth-
ing—warnings of coastal property val-
ues collapsing, warning of a carbon
asset bubble crash, even warnings of
big storms breaking the bank of the in-
surance system.
To Citi’s credit, it is a member of the
newly formed CEO climate dialogue
group which will, I hope, become a
strong advocate for a Federal price on
carbon pollution. That is the place
where essentially every economist—
huge numbers of Nobel Prize winning
economists, many Republicans, former
economic advisers to Presidents,
former Treasury Secretaries, former
EPA Administrators, former Members
of Congress—have all come down.
It is pretty clear what the solution
is: It is a price on carbon that is rev-
enue neutral and border adjustable and
will reduce emissions enough to keep
us under 1.5 degrees. That is not hard
to figure out. It is getting there that is
hard because, so far, the net pressure of
corporate America in Congress remains
hostile to climate action, whether from
indifference by companies themselves
or, worse, from the hostile presence of
corporate trade associations like the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers,
two leading business lobby groups re-
cently outed as the two worst climate
obstructors in Congress.
The last I checked, a clean and green
economy involved a lot of commerce.
And building a new clean grid and new
clean technologies, whether wind or
solar or batteries or storage or distrib-
uted generation, was a lot of manufac-
turing.
We still await the explanation from
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
National Association of Manufacturers
why they are 100 percent aligned with
the denial and obstruction of the fossil
fuel industry and 0 percent aligned
with their membership who, in many
cases, are leaning in to climate action.
There is a separate flotilla of front
groups doing the dirty work of the fos-
sil fuel industry. The fossil fuel indus-
try doesn’t want to show up and iden-
tify itself as the fossil fuel industry;
then the game is too obvious. So they
put up all these front groups with ri-
diculous names about Heartlands and
Heritages and famous figures, and they
are front groups for fossil fuel. All
those groups add to the corporate pres-
sure against climate action from the
Chamber and from NAM.
So for banks like these, who claim to
take climate change very seriously, it
would really make a difference if they
would take an interest in climate
change, not just on their websites, not
just in their talking points, but in
their investments in the market and
steered away from fossil fuel and into
clean energy and in their influence
here in Congress.
We have to crack this nut here in
Congress. There is no pathway to
avoiding climate calamity that does
not require Congress to act. Congress
must act if we are going to get ahead of
this problem. It is not optional. You
can’t shrug as a business leader who
cares about climate and say: No, we are
just going to do our thing; we don’t
need to worry about what happens in
Congress.
There is no pathway to avoiding the
climate crisis without action in Con-
gress. The fossil fuel industry knows
that. That is why they are here, red in
tooth and claw. The sensible, honorable
parts of the business community that
want to do something about climate
change need to show up and push back
because, otherwise, the hydraulics are
against us.
At this point, the science is clear.
The economics are clear. The warnings
are serious—systemic risks—and they
are many. Neither our planet nor our
economy can afford massive invest-
ments in new fossil fuel projects, not
by them, not by anyone. Time is short.
We can no longer afford corporate
America to be AWOL on climate in
Congress.
It is time for these banks and the
rest of corporate America who want to
see progress and avoid what all those
warnings are telling us to wake up and
to show up.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From Inside Climate News, July 1, 2019]
HOW MUCH GLOBAL WARMING IS FOSSIL FUEL
INFRASTRUCTURE LOCKING IN?
(By Phil McKenna)
All the power plants, vehicles and other
fossil fuel-burning infrastructure operating
today will lock the world into 1.5 degrees
Celsius of global warming, exceeding the
Paris climate agreement goals, unless the
biggest polluters are shut down early or are
retrofitted to capture their carbon emis-
sions, a new study shows.
And that’s just the infrastructure already
built. When the researchers factored in the
future emissions of coal- and gas-fired power
plants that are currently planned or under
construction, they found the total lifetime
emissions would shoot past l.5 °C (2.7 °F)
warming and put the world on pace to burn
about two-thirds of the remaining carbon
budget for staying under 2 °C (3.6 °F) warm-
ing compared to pre-industrial times.
The findings imply profound changes for
the planet and many of its inhabitants in
this century. As global temperatures rise,
heat waves continue to intensify, extreme
precipitation increases, and an additional 10
million people face greater risks from sea
level rise in just the half degree between 1.5
°C and 2 °C, among other threats, the Inter-
governmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) wrote last fall.
We have already built enough to take us
over 1.5,’’ said Ken Caldeira, an atmospheric
scientist at the Carnegie Institution for
Science and a co-author of the study. ‘‘For
these 1.5 scenarios you would either need to
retire CO2 emitting infrastructure early or
have carbon dioxide removal strategies
which are generally thought to be expen-
sive.’’
Nine years ago, Caldeira co-authored a
similar study that found the planet had al-
ready locked in about 496 gigatonnes of car-
bon dioxide with existing infrastructure,
emissions that would result in about 1.3 °C of
warming above pre-industrial levels.
Since then, China and India have been on
power plant construction sprees. The average
age of their coal-fired power plants are 11
and 12 years, respectively, compared to near-
ly 40 years in the United States, according to
the new study. The historical average life-
span of a power plant, and the age used for
calculations in the study, is about 40 years.
‘‘What we see now is a lot more carbon-
emitting infrastructure than we saw a dec-
ade ago,’’ Caldeira said. ‘‘The trajectory is
not going to where we would like it to go
to.’’
FUTURE EMISSIONS LIKELY TO BE EVEN HIGHER
The new study found that existing energy
infrastructure would emit about 658 gigatons
of carbon dioxide over the rest of its ex-
pected lifetime, and that the future fossil
fuel power plants that are currently planned
would boost that to about 846 gigatons. The
IPCC has determined that to have a 50 per-
cent chance of keeping surface air tempera-
ture warming under 1.5 °C, the world would
need to limit emissions from all human ac-
tivities to about 580 gigatons of carbon diox-
ide.
The future emissions are likely even high-
er than the study estimates. It does not take
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.060 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4918 July 17, 2019
into account future emissions from other
sectors including shipping, aviation and
heavy industry that will be hard to wean off
of fossil fuels. Nor does it account for emis-
sions related to fossil fuels extraction and
pipelines or non-energy emissions such as
from agriculture.
Emissions from yet-to-be-built ships,
planes, factories and other fossil fuel-pow-
ered infrastructure will likely outweigh
emissions saved from the early retirement of
existing fossil fuel power plants, said Gunnar
Luderer, head of the Energy Systems Group
at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research in Germany, who reviewed the
study.
For the new study, the researchers used de-
tailed datasets of fossil fuel-burning energy
infrastructure operating in 2018 or planned.
They found some progress, including ‘‘sub-
stantial’’ cancellations of proposed fossil
fuel power plants in the past two years,
which cut the expected emissions from fu-
ture power plants by as much as half from
studies conducted just a few years earlier.
In the U.S., utilities have been announcing
plans to shut down coal-fired power plants
and add more renewable energy as the costs
of solar and wind power generation fall, but
other types of fossil fuel infrastructure have
been expanding—particularly natural gas
drilling and pipelines to carry oil and gas,
both for domestic use and for export to other
countries. On June 20, for example, Energy
Transfer LP announced it planned nearly
double the capacity the Dakota Access oil
pipeline, a project that was highly contested
over both climate and environmental con-
cerns when it was approved in 2017.
NO TIME FOR DEBATE OR DELAY
Other studies have used different methods
to estimate emissions growth.
One study, published in Nature Commu-
nications in January, determined there was
a 64 percent chance that existing energy in-
frastructure wouldn’t commit the planet to
passing l.5 °C warming, provided construc-
tion of additional fossil fuel energy infra-
structure stopped immediately and other
measures were taken to dramatically reduce
emissions from all other sectors of the econ-
omy.
Such measures would have to happen in
the immediate future, said Joeri Rogelj, a
lecturer at the Grantham Institute at Impe-
rial College London and a co-author of the
January study.
‘‘Both studies are really clear,’’ Rogelj
said. ‘‘If we wait another 5 to 10 years with
being serious about emissions reductions and
addressing climate change then indeed we
will have no discussion anymore whether we
can still make it to 1.5. It will be very clear
and obvious that we will run past it.’’
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
STOP CRUELTY TO MIGRANT
CHILDREN ACT
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, to-
night I am rising to talk about legisla-
tion that I have introduced that now
has 40 Senators sponsoring it. It is
called the Stop Cruelty to Migrant
Children Act.
I think all of us in America have seen
so many stories of refugee children
being treated in a horrific manner at
the border or beyond the border in a
system of child migrant prisons.
Just recently, we have had the story
about 3-year old Sofia and her par-
ents—Tania and Joseph—proceeded to
experience horrific circumstances in
which a gang killed Tania’s mother and
her sister-in-law. A note was posted on
the door that they would be killed,
that they had 45 minutes to leave. I
imagine all of us would flee with our
children under those circumstances.
They made it to the border of the
United States. They did get through an
initial hearing which is designed to de-
termine if there is credible fear of re-
turn, and that sets the stage then for
an asylum hearing.
But we are shipping folks back into
Mexico to await that asylum hearing.
In this case, the little girl in the fam-
ily—she has a heart problem, and she
had suffered a heart attack—a 3-year
old girl—yet we sent that family back
into Mexico without friends, without
family, without funds.
It is only because a Member of Con-
gress heard about it—a Member in the
House, Congresswoman ESCOBAR—and
intervened, that the little girl was al-
lowed to remain in the United States.
Even then, the administration said
you—the little girl, the 3-year old—you
have to choose between which parent
will be in the U.S. and which one will
be sent back without funds, family, and
friends into Mexico with the rest of the
children.
It is a horrific situation to split the
family in this process, horrific to ask a
little girl to have to decide who would
be in the safety of the U.S. and which
parent would be sent back into very
dangerous territory across the border.
This is just one example out of thou-
sands.
President John F. Kennedy said:
‘‘This country has always served as a
lantern in the dark for those who love
freedom but are persecuted, in misery,
or in need.’’
If President Kennedy were speaking
today, he couldn’t say those words be-
cause today our country, under the
current leadership, is not conducting
itself in a manner that serves as a
‘‘lantern in the dark for those who love
freedom but are persecuted, in misery,
or in need.’’
Instead, we have a new policy. It is a
policy that was articulated by John
Kelly just weeks after the administra-
tion took office. The policy was that if
we inflict pain and suffering on refu-
gees, it will deter immigration. The
strategy of deliberately inflicting pain
on refugees is not supportable under
any moral code, under any religious
tradition, or under any system of eth-
ics.
Shortly after John Kelly, who was
then head of Homeland Security, ex-
pressed this, there was a reaction. This
was in the early months of 2017. As a
result, they took the program under-
ground for a little more than a year,
until June of 2018, when then-Attorney
General Jeff Sessions gave a speech
called ‘‘Zero Tolerance.’’ Six months
out from an election, it is not unusual
to have an Attorney General give a
speech in which getting tough on crime
is emphasized. But as you read the de-
tails of that speech, you realize this
wasn’t about getting tough on crime.
This was about returning explicitly to
the vision that John Kelly had laid out
originally of tormenting refugees in
order to discourage immigration. That
is a whole different thing. It is not zero
tolerance; it is zero humanity.
Every one of us can picture relatives
coming to this country and to this bor-
der and would want them to be treated
with respect and decency as they pur-
sue asylum.
Most people do not win their asylum
hearings. The rate of success is dif-
ferent in different districts. In some, it
is 15 percent. In some, it is 20 percent.
In some, it is 30 percent. But the bur-
den of proof is on the refugee. The bur-
den of proof is difficult to establish, so
most people do not succeed if they do
not have extensive evidence to make
their case on the fear of return.
The initial hearing is easy in the
sense that you simply have to assert
that you have a credible fear based on
your story, but in the asylum hearing,
you have to prove it. You carry the
burden of proof. Is it too much for us to
continue the vision of treating those
fleeing war and those fleeing famine,
those fleeing conflict and violence—is
it too much for this America that we
love to treat them with decency and re-
spect as they go through the adjudica-
tion process for asylum? It is not. In
fact, that has been the vision of Amer-
ica; that has been the process in Amer-
ica to say that if you are truly fleeing
these horrific circumstances, then we
light a torch to shine your way for-
ward.
I cannot understand how it is pos-
sible that the administration persists
in this strategy of traumatizing chil-
dren. It starts at the border, where
Customs and Border Protection has
been instructed to set up a blockade
and block children who arrive right at
the line on the middle of the pedestrian
bridge or the pathway and then block
them from entering while they call up
Mexican officials to come and drag
them away.
I saw this down in McAllen a year
ago June. Three CBP officers were
stretching across the bridge. Anyone
who did not have a passport or a visa
was sent back into Mexico in violation
of international law and our domestic
law. I asked why we would do this to
refugees fleeing persecution. Basically,
the answer was this: We are too busy.
We are too crowded.
The only thing was, there was no
crowding, not at that time. There was
no crowding at all. The interview
rooms were empty. The processing cen-
ter at McAllen was empty. It was sim-
ply a strategy of slamming the door
shut.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY6.042 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4919
July 17, 2019
For these families sent back across
the border without friends and family
and extension funds to support them, it
is very dangerous across the border.
This is happening with children at Ti-
juana. I was told of numerous cir-
cumstances where unaccompanied chil-
dren would come to the border, and
they would be blocked at the entry,
and then the CBP would say: Well, we
can’t let you step across that line until
we consult with the manager. Then the
U.S. side would call up the Mexican
side to come drag these kids away.
I got a phone call. I was in my office
here, working late at night. I think it
was about 11 p.m. at night. I got a
phone call from a group that has
helped escort children. They said: We
have three French-speaking children
on the border in Tijuana. They are at
the line with the U.S. gate, and the
U.S. Customs and Border Protection of-
ficer is blocking them from stepping
across that line, and they are very wor-
ried because if the Mexican officials
come and apprehend them, they could
be sent back to the horrific cir-
cumstances—the life-and-death chal-
lenges that they were fleeing from.
I had spoken previously to the head
of that sector. I had a phone conversa-
tion, and he said: No, our policy is to
facilitate the movement. Our instruc-
tions to our officers are to facilitate
the children in crossing that line as if
they were our own children.
I said: Well, do you have training for
this, because I keep hearing reports of
the blockade at the border.
He said: Yes, we have musters.
I said: Well, do you have training
documents that say that it is your pol-
icy to treat these kids as if they were
your own and facilitate bringing them
across?
He said: Yes, absolutely.
The Legislative Affairs Director cut
in on the phone call to say: I will have
that for you tomorrow. I will have
those for you tomorrow.
We are still waiting for those docu-
ments. I don’t know that they exist. I
don’t know that the training exists.
What I do know is that after I had that
conversation, I got a call from the bor-
der with this volunteer group, and they
had these three French children who
were being denied entry. I asked the
volunteer who was with the children—
I said: Hand your phone to the Amer-
ican officer. I will explain the con-
versation I had with the head of the
sector and the policies that he says are
in place and the training that is sup-
posed to be in place that says you are
supposed to treat these children as if
they were your own and facilitate their
passage across the border.
The CBP officer said: No, I am not
talking to a U.S. Senator. I will talk
only to the President of the United
States.
I said: Turn on the loud speaker on
the phone. Hold your phone up so that
they can hear what I am saying.
I told them the same thing—that I
had met with their supervisors for the
sector, and their bosses had said: These
are the guidelines. Your guidance is to
treat these children who are in front of
you as if they were your own and to fa-
cilitate their passage across that line
to safety and not leave them stranded
in Tijuana.
Realize that being stranded in Ti-
juana for any child is horrific. Imagine
it is your child. Whether your child is
17 or whether your child is 5, Tijuana is
an incredibly dangerous place. There
are all kinds of sex industry operators
there who thrive on pulling little kids
and teenagers into that sex industry.
Do you want your child there with no
friends and family or funds on the
street in that setting? There are gangs
who prey on the children who are on
the street. Do you want your children
in that setting? No, of course you
would never want them left in that sit-
uation.
This border blockade is the first
piece of traumatizing children to dis-
courage immigration. It is morally
wrong, and it needs to end.
Then there is the metering program.
Basically, metering says that if you
come to the border, we will not let you
cross. But if you come the following
day to a square near the border, there
will be a book, and you can put your
name in the book and get on a wait
list. That is called metering.
So I went to the square in Tijuana
where this is done to watch the meter-
ing process. People arrive with the
book, and they place it on a little table
under a little canopy. They start call-
ing out names. That day, the United
States was taking about 30 people, and
when all of the spaces were full, that
was it.
Then everyone else on the wait list is
waiting. If I recall right, the wait had
been about 6 or 7 weeks for people to be
able to get just a credible fear inter-
view, which is the very first step. Real-
ize that a credible fear interview is not
complicated. It can be done expedi-
tiously. It means 6 to 7 weeks with no
money on the streets of some hostile
city across the border.
I want to show you a picture that
perhaps you have seen. It is a picture
that deeply, profoundly disturbs me.
This is a father and little girl swim-
ming the Rio Grande. They didn’t just
try to swim the Rio Grande. They came
to a port of entry of the United States
of America. They did what the Presi-
dent of the United States, President
Trump, said to do. They came to the
port of entry, and they asked for asy-
lum. They were metered and sent back
to Mexico to fend for themselves for
who knows how long—as long as the
wait list ends.
It is dangerous to have a mother, a
little girl, or a father on the streets of
a hostile city. If you wouldn’t send
your child into that, if you wouldn’t
send your sister and your sister’s child
into it, then we shouldn’t be sending
others into this perilous circumstance.
It is so perilous there, and you have no
way to even buy food. You certainly
don’t have money for a hotel. You have
been stripped of your funds during your
journey. You fled suddenly to begin
with and probably didn’t have re-
sources on the front end of the journey.
So what do you do? You say: Well, I
can starve and be beaten up—or who
knows what horrific treatment here—
or I can go and cross between the ports
of entry and ask for asylum.
That is what they did. It was because
they were rejected at the port of
entry—the very place President Trump
said to come—that they lie dead on the
banks of the Rio Grande, trying to get
out of the incredibly hostile situation
across the border. This is the delib-
erate infliction of trauma, and for
every situation like this, there are life-
and-death decisions.
This is not the end of it.
Let’s say they had made it across the
border and had been taken into a proc-
essing center. What would happen in
those processing centers? Well, in the
first one I went to in McAllen, there
wasn’t room to sit down. There cer-
tainly wasn’t room to lie down. You
had little kids in there who were cry-
ing and mothers who were crying, and
the fathers were in cells that were
across the aisle on the other side. They
were holding these Mylar blankets.
There were no cushions on the ground,
and there were lights left on all night
long.
We have heard the reports of all of
the various things we have done to
children in these processing centers—of
our not providing diapers, showers,
soap; of our making it difficult for
them to go to the bathroom; of our
making it difficult for them to get
water; of our not providing three meals
a day; and of our not providing medical
aid.
What kind of country treats children
in this manner? Who does this with our
tax money, on our land, and by our
government? This is more than wrong.
This is cruel. This is evil. This is the
depth of darkness to treat children in
this fashion. That is why 40 of us have
introduced this Stop Cruelty to Mi-
grant Children Act. The processing
center isn’t the end of it.
Then we have a for-profit prison in
Homestead that is paid $750 a day on a
no-compete contract. Who is on the
board of that? He is the same John
Kelly who started the child separation
strategy in March of 2017 and who then
served as the President’s Chief of Staff.
He is paid to be on the board of a for-
profit. He is paid to lock up children. It
is the largest child prison in American
history.
Now, if some other country had want-
ed to throw children back across the
border into hostile circumstances, if
some other country had set up a meter-
ing program that had left children vul-
nerable for weeks before their initial
credible hearings, if some other coun-
try had proceeded to put children into
holding cells and kept the lights on all
night and had given them no mat-
tresses to lie on and had not supplied
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.063 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4920 July 17, 2019
diapers, hygenics, food and water, or
medical treatment as appropriate, and
if some other country had locked up
children in a child prison that had been
built to a capacity of 3,200 children at
a for-profit and had had no incentive to
pass the children on to State-licensed
care facilities or to sponsors with
homes, we would have 100 Senators
down here on this floor, saying we have
to stop this because we stand up for
children in the United States of Amer-
ica.
So what I want to know is: How come
there aren’t 100 Senators down here
today, standing up against this type of
treatment? I invite all 100 of my col-
leagues to join this bill to stop cruelty
to migrant children.
I was struck by some of the com-
ments by the kids who were being held
down in Clint.
A 12-year-old boy said:
I’m hungry here at Clint all the time. I’m
so hungry that I awaken in the middle of the
night with hunger. Sometimes I wake up
from hunger at 4 a.m. and sometimes at
other hours.
A mother recounted that when she
asked for medicine for her son’s fever,
an agent retorted: ‘‘Who told you to
come to America with your baby any-
way?’’ How about, instead, we get help
for the child who has a fever.
There are children being held in
cages, children being marched in single
lines between Army-style huts, chil-
dren who have been inflicted with trau-
ma through child separation, children
who have been locked up in a for-profit
prison that has no incentive to move
children to State-licensed facilities. In
fact, it is the opposite. It is by a com-
pany that got a no-compete contract.
Who is on the board? He is the former
Chief of Staff to President Trump.
So what does this bill do?
It ensures that children are not
thrown back across the border when
they come up to the border of the
United States. It ensures that children
receive prompt medical assistance.
Many children have died from fever. By
just using a simple device to check the
fever, it would enable you to know if
this child needs additional help. It
would ensure that basic hygiene and
three meals a day are provided. It
would allow for more caseworkers to be
hired to help children to be moved
quickly to State-licensed facilities or
to homes, and homes are really where
they should be while they await asy-
lum. Children belong in schools and
homes and on playgrounds, not behind
barbed wire in a for-profit prison that
is designed to hold 3,200 people down in
Homestead, FL. This bill would pro-
hibit that devilish, misdirected strat-
egy of paying for and incentivizing the
imprisonment of children.
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said:
‘‘Our lives begin to end the day we be-
come silent about things that matter.’’
I hear a lot of silence in this Cham-
ber on the horrific treatment of chil-
dren. Let’s have a little less silence and
a little more advocacy. Let’s have 100
Senators sign up for the Stop Cruelty
to Migrant Children Act. America is
better than the way we have been
treating these children. I give thanks
to all 40 Senators who have signed on
to this legislation.
In our hearts, I think it is fundamen-
tally understood that deliberately
traumatizing children in order to dis-
courage immigration is wrong. We have
a responsibility to end it.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
f
TRIBUTE TO AVES THOMPSON
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
that time of week again. It is the time
when I get to recognize a special person
from a special place—the great State of
Alaska—in what we call our ‘‘Alaskan
of the Week.’’ It is one of the best
times of the week for me because I get
to talk about Alaska’s community and
its individuals. I think we have new
pages here, but I think the pages
unanimously agree every year that this
is the most exciting speech of the
week. I will not disappoint because you
get to learn about Alaska, and whether
it is summer—right now—or winter,
you get to learn about what people are
doing in Alaska.
I recognize Mr. Aves Thompson
today. He is one of the many people in
my State who has worked diligently to
ensure that Alaska runs well and that
goods get properly transported from
one place in Alaska to another place.
We are a big State. He ensures that
when delivering things, the systems
that make a functional State and a
functional society are in working order
in Alaska. Now, I will get to what Aves
has done in a minute here and will talk
about him. What I always like to do is
talk a little bit about what is going on
in Alaska right now.
The weather is gorgeous, and the
fishing is great. A couple of weeks ago,
I was up on the mighty Yukon River,
which is way up north. I was with my
wife and three daughters and a bunch
of family members. We were fishing for
one of the most iconic fish on the plan-
et—the Yukon River king. It is a time
of festivals and parades all across the
State.
Last week, I was at Eagle River,
which is about 15 minutes north of An-
chorage, for the Bear Paw Festival.
Among other things, many Alaskans—
myself included—partook in the Slip-
pery Salmon Olympics. I am not going
to describe exactly what happened, but
as you can imagine, it involved run-
ning and obstacles with salmon. It was
a lot of fun. So it is a great time to be
in Alaska, and I encourage everybody
who is watching on TV to come on up.
You will love it. I guarantee it will be
the trip of a lifetime.
As you know, events like these re-
flect something larger about a place.
They reflect ties and commitment and,
importantly, people and community.
They reflect people who help each
other and spend their lives working to
make things better. So let me intro-
duce you to Aves Thompson, our Alas-
kan of the Week. He is someone who
has definitely spent his life making
Alaska better and, more fundamen-
tally, making Alaska work well and ef-
ficiently.
I will admit it. Alaska is not the
easiest place in which to live. For one,
it is really far away from the rest of
the lower 48. I am going to get on a
plane. I try to get home every week-
end, so I will go home tomorrow after-
noon. It will be about 111⁄2 hours door-
to-door, one way, to get to my home in
Anchorage. That is pretty far. The win-
ter weather, of course, can be brutal.
Our mountains and our tundra are
beautiful, but it can be challenging, to
say the least, to build on that terrain.
Getting goods in and out of Alaska is
particularly vexing in a State the size
of Alaska. Now, my colleagues from
Texas don’t always like to hear about
it, but I like to say, if you were to split
Alaska in half, then Texas would be the
third largest State in the country be-
cause we are 21⁄2 times the size of the
State of Texas. More than that, we are
a continental-wide, expansive State.
When you look at communities like
Ketchikan, which is down in the south-
east, at communities like Barrow,
which is in the north, and all the way
out west to the end of the Aleutian Is-
lands chain, you will literally cover
Florida, North Dakota, and San Fran-
cisco. That is the size of Alaska. So it
is a challenge to move things.
Aves Thompson is currently the head
of the Alaska Trucking Association. He
has spent his entire career working to
make sure Alaskans get the goods they
need not only to survive but to thrive.
He has also worked to ensure that the
goods are measured properly and that
people aren’t overpaying for them. This
is very important.
Aves and Phyllis, his wife, came to
Alaska in 1970. First, it was to visit
friends, then to build a life. They love
the State. They love the weather. They
love the people. They love the commu-
nity. Phyllis taught elementary school,
and eventually Aves worked for a small
trucking company. Then he worked for
the State as, first, the division director
of the Commercial Vehicle Enforce-
ment Program and then as the director
and the chief of the Alaska State Divi-
sion of Measurement Standards. Now,
that is a mouthful, but it is a really
important job.
What does it mean?
It means that he was in charge of all
of the scales in Alaska—everything
from the scales to weigh your fruit at
the grocery store and your gas at the
pump to the scales that weigh huge
shipments of goods that come into our
State.
When she was a little girl, Kristin,
who is Aves’ daughter, remembers how
her father used to always check the
scales at the grocery store. So she told
her friends that her father weighed
cheese for a living. That is a family
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.066 S17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4921
July 17, 2019
joke; that he weighed cheese for a liv-
ing.
Aves became the chairman of the
3,500-member National Conference on
Weights and Measures, and he was
given a lifetime achievement award for
his work, particularly around his work
in setting the standards for inter-
national weights and measurements,
which is incredibly important for the
global economy, much of which runs
through Alaska.
In 2006, Aves became the head of the
Alaska Trucking Association. Why?
Well, his daughter said he wasn’t a
trucker himself but that he was always
one at heart. He loves the music of
Waylon Jennings and Kenny Rogers.
He loves the culture. Most of all, he
loves the truckers themselves. They
are great, hard-working Americans
who drive our trucks.
Aves said:
The thing I like most about this industry
is that it is made up of hard-working, tough
people who want to make a living. We are
not looking for a handout; we are looking to
pay our fair share. Our drivers work hard.
They make a good living throughout Alaska.
Kristin, his daughter, said that as she
was growing up, a trucker was always
calling, and her dad was always offer-
ing to help.
Let me tell you a little bit about the
trucking industry in Alaska. Trucking
employs over 13,700 people in Alaska—
almost 1 out of every 19 workers. They
are good-paying jobs with benefits, and
they are sorely needed in my State.
With the exception of communities in
Southeast Alaska, almost everything
that we get in Alaska comes into the
Port of Alaska and is delivered by
truck.
The rides themselves are unlike any
rides in the country. We actually had a
reality show—one of the first of many
reality shows about Alaska—called
‘‘Ice Road Truckers.’’ These were the
guys—the men and the women—who
drove the haul road, as we call it. I was
just on it going up to our fish camp on
the Yukon. In the winter and on ice,
they drive these trucks hundreds of
miles up the haul road to Prudhoe Bay.
That show ran for 10 years. Americans
loved it. Those were our truckers.
As Aves puts it, ‘‘in Alaska, if you
got it, a truck brought it. It’s abso-
lutely essential to our economy. If
trucking in Alaska stopped,’’ the entire
Alaskan economy ‘‘would stop.’’
Now, Aves is going to be retiring
from the Alaska Trucking Association
at the end of this month, but he sits on
so many other boards and associations
and he is involved in so many other
elements of his community, his State,
and his country, that I guarantee you
there is not going to be much time for
him to rest during his well-deserved re-
tirement.
He is the kind of guy—and we all
know him—who when people call on
him to do things, he gets things done.
But one project he is passionate
about, as am I, and it is still ongoing,
and he is still leading on it and he is
absolutely determined to finish—let
me explain what this is.
Like so many Alaskans, Aves is a
veteran. I like to brag about Alaska.
We have more veterans per capita than
any State in the United States of
America. He is one of them.
He served in the Army from 1964 to
1966, in the 2nd Infantry Division. He
was stationed at the DMZ in Korea.
Like so many of our veterans in Amer-
ica and Alaska, these experiences never
left him.
In 2002 he read about a 2nd Infantry
Division reunion, and he thought he
would go. He found kinship among his
fellow veterans and got talked into be-
coming an officer, eventually becoming
the chair of the 2nd Indianhead Divi-
sion Association and chair of the asso-
ciation’s Memorial Foundation Board
of Trustees.
As I said, this guy is a doer and a
leader. Among other things, he has led
and raised money for two trips for vet-
erans from the Korean conflict and who
have served in Korea to go to Korea,
and he has been working diligently to
update the U.S. Army 2nd Division Me-
morial, which is located here at 17th
and Constitution in Washington, DC.
The memorial was first erected in
1936 to honor the 2nd Division fallen
soldiers in World War I. It was then
modified to honor the 2nd Division fall-
en soldiers in both World War II and
Korea. This is a very highly decorated
Army division.
Aves and other veterans of the 2nd
Division thought that the memorial
should be expanded even further to
honor even more of the members of the
2nd Division who have lost their lives
and to leave space for future modifica-
tions of this important memorial for
soldiers from the wars in Afghanistan
and Iraq.
Like so much of what happens here,
none of this was easy. When he first
started to work on the memorial, he
went to the Park Service, which gave
him a firm ‘‘No, we are not going to
help you. We are not going to let you
move it. We are not going to let you
expand it.’’
Eventually, he came to us, his con-
gressional delegation from Alaska, and
we gave him a firm ‘‘Yes, we will help.’’
We were able last year to include a
provision in the 2018 National Defense
Authorization Act to allow for the ex-
pansion of the 2nd Division Infantry
Memorial.
Aves has been working hard at this
ever since—working with agencies,
raising private money for this memo-
rial, and getting design approval.
Aves has been married to Phyllis for
almost 51 years. Kristin is a wonderful
daughter who has two sons of her own.
Aves is proud of his grandsons, Logan
and Aaron Michael, and we are all very
grateful for his work on the economy
of Alaska, on the logistics, on the sup-
ply, and for his work for veterans. He is
someone who cares so much and so
deeply about his State, about his com-
munity, about his industry, about his
country.
So, Aves, happy retirement, although
we know you are going to continue to
work hard. Thanks for all you have
done for Alaska, for America, and
thank you for being our Alaskan of the
Week.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:17 p.m.,
adjourned until Thursday, July 18, 2019,
at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 8033:
To be admiral
VICE ADM. MICHAEL M. GILDAY
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
ROBERT L. SUMWALT III, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFE-
TY BOARD FOR A TERM OF THREE YEARS. (REAPPOINT-
MENT)
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AURELIA SKIPWITH, OF INDIANA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, VICE
DANIEL M. ASHE, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CARMEN G. CANTOR, OF PUERTO RICO, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE FEDERATED
STATES OF MICRONESIA.
MICHAEL GEORGE DESOMBRE, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF
THAILAND.
SUNG Y. KIM, OF CALIFORNIA, A CAREER MEMBER OF
THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF CAREER MIN-
ISTER, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLEN-
IPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
CHARLOTTE A. BURROWS, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OP-
PORTUNITY COMMISSION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 1,
2023, VICE CHAI RACHEL FELDBLUM, TERM EXPIRED.
KEITH E. SONDERLING, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 1, 2024, VICE CHAR-
LOTTE A. BURROWS, TERM EXPIRED.
f
DISCHARGED NOMINATION
The Senate Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs was
discharged from further consideration
of the following nomination under the
authority of the order of the Senate of
01/07/2009 and the nomination was
placed on the Executive Calendar:
*MARK LEE GREENBLATT, OF MARYLAND, TO BE IN-
SPECTOR GENERAL, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
*Nominee has committed to respond
to requests to appear and testify before
any duly constituted committee of the
Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:11 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17JY6.067 S17JYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E933
July 17, 2019
CONGRATULATING MICHELE
KEARNS, KELLY GENOVA, AND
THE STUDENTS OF FESTUS’
QUEST K–8 GIFTED PROGRAM
FOR RECEIVING THE EPA’S
PRESIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL
YOUTH AWARD
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to ask my colleagues to join me in
congratulating Festus, Missouri teachers,
Michele Kearns and Kelly Genova and the stu-
dents of Festus’ Quest K–8 Gifted Program for
receiving the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy’s Presidential Environmental Youth Award.
Long before receiving this prestigious
award, it all started last year with two teach-
ers, Michele and Kelly deciding to come to-
gether and apply for a grant from the Innova-
tive Technology Education Fund in St. Louis,
Missouri. The pair successfully received
$22,000 for their students. Unaware to them,
with this grant, it was the start of a great jour-
ney for the students of Quest.
Michele and Kelly challenged their students
to apply their knowledge and skillset in the
STEM fields to come up with uses of the grant
funds that would be beneficial to the Festus
community. The students identified a problem,
came up with a plan to solve it, and worked
together to execute their project perfectly.
The students of Quest noticed that their city
park had an awful mosquito infestation during
warmer weather. Their goal was to eliminate
the problem for park goers in an environ-
mentally friendly way, and they did that with
the invention of Pollinator Paradise. With Polli-
nator Paradise, the students of Quest de-
signed, built, and installed homes for Indiana
bats, mason bees, purple martins, humming
birds, and monarch butterflies, all of which are
natural pest controls, and pollinators. The end
result was a more diverse makeup of wildlife
and a more pleasant setting at the park.
The students of Quest have demonstrated
that no matter how small and young one might
be, you don’t have to wait to start making a
difference and impacting your community. Ear-
lier this year, Michele and Kelly decided that
others needed to know what the students of
Quest were accomplishing down in Festus,
Missouri and applied for the EPA’s Presi-
dential Youth Award. Much to their surprise,
they were selected to receive this prestigious
award. As their Representative, I couldn’t be
prouder of this group. They are the perfect ex-
amples of the great things that can come from
team work and dedication. I know this is only
the beginning for Quest. They are our next
generation of thinkers, inventors, teachers,
doctors, and leaders, and I look forward to
seeing what the future holds for each and
every one of them.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
congratulating Michele, Kelly, and all the stu-
dents of Quest on this distinguished award
and for a job well done.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ARTHUR
‘‘ROY’’ THOMAS
HON. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Madam
Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that I rise to
honor the life of Arthur ‘‘Roy’’ Thomas and ex-
tend my condolences to his family. Roy was
an integral part of the International Union,
United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricul-
tural Implement Workers of America (UAW)
Region 8.
Roy, a dedicated champion for union rights,
tragically passed away on July 13th after a
battle with stage 4 cancer.
He was a dear friend and embodied the
best of what it means to give back to your
country and community. Born in 1952, Roy
dedicated his entire life to helping others. He
began working at Fleetguard in 1970 and was
employed there for 47 years. Roy started
working for UAW in November 1995 as a
union organizer and became UAW Community
Action Program Representative in October
2002 until his retirement in December 2017.
Roy embodied UAW’s mission of social jus-
tice and action, and his passion truly inspired
so many of the union sisters and brothers that
he fought for every day.
He was warm, loyal and devoted to his
friends and allies. He was the type of person
who through his affable personality and his
approach to advocacy on the issues important
to auto workers drew devotion, respect and af-
fection simultaneously.
I personally was a recipient of his unwaver-
ing friendship and am eternally grateful for his
leadership in supporting our unions.
Roy Thomas was truly one-of-a-kind whose
joy for life is the imprint he left on the hearts
of those who knew him well.
He will be tremendously missed, but never
forgotten.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, on July 15,
2019, I was absent and unable to vote. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
Roll Call No. 475; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 476;
and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 477.
RECOGNIZING MR. ROY LUNSFORD
HON. RUSS FULCHER
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. FULCHER. Madam Speaker, Mr. Roy
Lunsford commits every day to making a posi-
tive impact to the lives of his wife, five chil-
dren, 25 grandchildren, 28 great-grand-
children, and his town of Kuna, Idaho.
That is something we can all learn from.
Despite being diagnosed with lung cancer,
Mr. Lunsford wakes up at 7:00 am to setup
cheerful signs and wave to passersby on his
street.
Acts of kindness like Mr. Lunsford’s, bring
joy to others, and make our communities a
better place to live.
Mr. Lunsford’s positive outlook on life de-
serves recognition and makes me proud to be
an Idahoan.
f
SUMMER JAIME EARNS GIRL
SCOUT GOLD AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Summer Jaime from Rich-
mond, TX for earning her Girl Scout Gold
Award.
The Gold Award is the highest achievement
a Girl Scout can earn. To earn this distin-
guished award, Summer had to spend at least
80 hours developing and executing a project
to benefit the community, as well as have a
long-term impact on girls. For her Gold award
project, ‘‘Swimming through the Summer,’’ she
gave free swim lessons to young children and
created an instructional video for future swim-
mers and instructors. Over the course of her
project, over 20 children were guided through
lessons.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Summer Jaime for earning her Girl Scout
Gold Award. We are confident she will have
continued success in her future endeavors.
We are very proud.
f
HONORING BRIAN AND CANDI
CRAWFORD
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor a tenacious
couple, Brian and Candi Crawford.
Brian Crawford is a licensed and ordained
Gospel Minister having served as a youth pas-
tor, associate pastor and lead pastor before
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K17JY8.001 E17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E934 July 17, 2019
starting City Light Church. Brian and his wife
Candi are natives and long-time residents of
Vicksburg having a passion to share the Love
and Gospel of Jesus Christ with the city they
hold dear. Having felt a burden for Vicksburg
for a long period of time God moved to allow
Brian and Candi to move back to the area with
the mission to shine the light of Christ in the
city through the transformed lives of His peo-
ple.
Brian changed jobs and moved into the
heart of the city to begin their journey. Brian
and Candi were assessed through the 242
Church Planting Network and were deemed
ready for the rigors of church planting. Brian
also completed the Multiply church planting
training through the network in May 2016.
When he isn’t doing the work of the ministry,
you probably can find Brian coaching his boys,
dating his wife, reading (by the truckload) or
watching movies (any genre) and sports (any
kind).
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Brian and Candi Crawford
for their hard work, dedication and desire to
spread the Gospel.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE CITY OF
DEARBORN FOR ITS 90TH BIRTH-
DAY
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the City of Dearborn, which
is celebrating its 90th birthday. Dearborn is a
vibrant city with an immense history and di-
verse community.
Originally established as the Detroit Arsenal
and coined the ‘‘Dearbornville’’ United States
Military installation in 1864, Dearborn housed
and supplied Union soldiers during the Civil
War. Situated on the River Rouge in southeast
Michigan, Dearborn was officially incorporated
as a city in 1927. The birthplace of manufac-
turing pioneer Henry Ford, Dearborn rapidly
industrialized in the early 20th century. The
city is home to the River Rouge Complex and
now-closed Ford Airport, which were once the
largest integrated factory and most advanced
airport in the world, respectively.
A melting pot of races, ethnicities, and reli-
gions, Dearborn embodies the diversity of our
nation. During the 19th and 20th centuries, im-
migrants from across the world flocked to
Dearborn in pursuit of safety, tolerance, and
economic opportunity. Similarly, during the
Great Migration, African Americans moved to
the city to escape racial violence and discrimi-
nation. This tradition of heterogeneity con-
tinues today, as Dearborn has the highest per-
capita Muslim population of any city in the
country and is home to both the Arab Amer-
ican National Museum and the largest mosque
in the United States. We recognize and thank
the Dearborn community for their commitment
to economic and cultural excellence. They
have built a vibrant, inclusive, diverse commu-
nity that serves as a role model across the na-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the city of Dearborn for its
90th birthday. I wish Dearborn a successful
celebration as they mark this special mile-
stone.
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF MS. SADIE ROBERTS-JOSEPH
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of Ms. Sadie Rob-
erts-Joseph, civil rights activist and founder of
the Odell S. Williams Now & Then Museum of
African-American History—now known as the
Baton Rouge African-American History Mu-
seum in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. She passed
away on July 12, 2019 at the age of 75.
One of 12 children, Ms. Roberts-Joseph
was born in 1944 in Woodville, Mississippi be-
fore her family relocated to Baton Rouge. She
attended Baton Rouge Vocational-Technical
School and Southern University, studying edu-
cation and speech pathology. She later
worked as a minority business officer for the
City of Baton Rouge and as a certified res-
piratory therapy technician.
Ms. Roberts-Joseph was a prominent civil
rights activist in the Baton Rouge area. In
2001, she founded the Odell S. Williams Now
and Then African-American Museum. She also
founded the Community Against Drugs and Vi-
olence, a non-profit organization whose mis-
sion was to create a safe environment for the
youth in north Baton Rouge. She also served
as host for the Juneteenth Freedom Festival,
which remembered the emancipation of slaves
in the Confederate states and a Veterans Day
celebration, which honored veterans of all ra-
cial backgrounds who fought in the Civil War.
Ms. Roberts-Joseph was an individual of
great compassion, intelligence, vision, and in-
tegrity. Known as a pillar of the community,
her legacy will forever be a part of Baton
Rouge and her dedication to service will for-
ever embody the spirit of Louisiana. We can-
not match the sacrifices made by Ms. Roberts-
Joseph, but surely, we can try to match her
sense of service. We cannot match her cour-
age, but we can strive to match her devotion.
Ms. Roberts-Joseph’s survivors include two
children; Jason Roberts and Angela Roberts
Machen.
Madam Speaker, I celebrate the life and
legacy of Ms. Sadie Roberts-Joseph.
f
BLACK CHICAGO CATHOLIC PRIEST
ON THE ROAD TO SAINTHOOD
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, a man who escaped slavery to be-
come the first black Catholic Priest to estab-
lish a Black Catholic Parrish in Chicago, has
come a step closer to Sainthood. The Rev.
Augustus Tolton along with seven other can-
didates are now considered seriously on track
towards Sainthood after Pope Francis signed
a decree that formally recognized that they
lived the theological virtues of faith, hope and
charity at the Cardinal virtues of prudence,
justice, fortitude and temperance at a heroic
level, according to a statement from the Arch-
diocese of Chicago.
Tolton was born in 1854 and was seven
when he escaped with his Roman Catholic
mother from a Missouri slave owner. Tolton’s
mother took her children to Illinois where
Tolton began his ministry in Chicago. Tolton
graduated from St. Peter’s in Quincy, Illinois.
A German Franciscan Priest arranged for
Tolton to attend a Seminary in Rome after no
U.S. Seminaries would accept a Black man.
He was ordained a Priest in 1886. Three
years later, Tolton began his ministry in Chi-
cago. He established St. Monica Catholic
Church in Bronzeville. He died in 1897, at the
age of 43.
Upon hearing the news of Tolton’s possible
elevation, Cardinal Blasé Culpich said in a
statement, ‘‘We welcome the news from the
Holy Father on the advancement of Father
Tolton’s cause for Sainthood.’’ His struggles to
become a priest and his remarkable service to
God’s people are admirable examples, particu-
larly in these times of the value and dignity of
all people. Chicago is blessed to have seen
the election of the first Black woman elected
into the U.S. Senate, the first Black man as
the President of the United States, and we
look forward to the addition of the first Black
Saint.
f
RECOGNIZING DELL
TECHNOLOGIES
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I’m honored that Dell Technologies, one of the
world’s leading technology companies, has
called Round Rock, TX home for the last quar-
ter century. The impacts they’ve made on the
region and state are rivaled only by the ex-
traordinary innovations they’ve made in the
demanding world of cutting-edge high tech-
nology.
Knowing that Central Texas was the ideal
place to plant roots and grow, Dell Computer
Corporation broke ground on a new campus in
Round Rock, Texas on August 2, 1994. Since
then, the company has exploded to the global
scale, employing 145,000 people worldwide
and making enormous contributions to the
technology revolution that has defined our
changing times.
Dell Technologies has brought prosperity
and growth to the Texas city it calls horne. A
once-small Texas town now has more than
125,000 residents and is regularly ranked in
the highest tier of the nation’s safest and most
family-friendly cities. Dell Technologies fully
embodies the Texas spirit of generosity, annu-
ally donating $13 million to local charities, and
its employees dedicate more than 200,000
volunteer hours. Through its work providing
technology support to Round Rock busi-
nesses, government, and schools to hosting
the Round Rock Express AAA minor league
baseball team at Dell Diamond Stadium, Dell
Technologies has made lasting and positive
impacts.
What has benefitted Round Rock benefits
the rest of Texas. Dell Technologies supports
more than 70,000 jobs statewide with wages
nearly ninety percent higher than the state av-
erage. This commitment to excellent pay
reaps dividends as every $100 in Dell Tech-
nologies employee wages drives about $200
of additional wages across the state. All this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17JY8.005 E17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E935
July 17, 2019
leads to a staggering economic contribution to
Texas of around $10 billion.
I salute Dell Technologies’ success, am glad
we share the same home town, and wish this
vital pillar of the Texas economy the brightest
of futures. I join all Central Texans as we look
forward to years of transformation and pros-
perity as Dell Technologies continues growing
a global business in the wonderful city of
Round Rock.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. CHRIS COLLINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I had meetings away from the Capitol dur-
ing these votes. Had I been present, I would
have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 478 and
NAY on Roll Call No. 479.
f
JETTIE COURT EARNS GIRL SCOUT
GOLD AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Jettie Court from Dulles High
School for earning her Girl Scout Gold Award.
The Gold Award is the highest achievement
a Girl Scout can earn. To earn this distin-
guished award, Jettie had to spend at least 80
hours developing and executing a project to
benefit the community, as well as have a long-
term impact on girls. For her Gold Award
project, Jettie started an annual feminine hy-
giene product collection called ‘‘Help the Girls.
Period’’ through the Dulles High School’s stu-
dent council. She led a team of 16 volunteers
to help collect 213 packages of feminine prod-
ucts. Court donated the products to East Fort
Bend Human Needs Ministry. She also ran a
campaign to help women by educating the
community and raise awareness of the need
of feminine hygiene products.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Jettie Court for earning her Girl Scout Gold
Award. We are confident she will have contin-
ued success in her future endeavors. We are
very proud of her accomplishment.
f
TRIBUTE TO MR. HENDERSON
YARBROUGH, FORMER TRUSTEE
AND MAYOR OF MAYWOOD, ILLI-
NOIS
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to my good friend
and colleague, Mr. Henderson Yarbrough who
has just ended more than forty years of civic,
community and political involvement with the
Village of Maywood and the County of Cook.
Mr. Henderson Yarbrough started work with
the Village of Maywood under the leadership
of the Honorable Joseph W. Freelon, the Vil-
lages’ first African American Mayor. As an em-
ployee Henderson became immersed in affairs
of the community and lived, worked and
breathed Maywood. He eventually ran for both
trustee and mayor, winning both positions at
different times. Henderson Yarbrough has in-
deed been a role model for the Village of May-
wood. He and his family have contributed
much to the well-being of this community, the
County of Cook and the State of Illinois. He
has indicated that he will continue to work with
and continue to support his wife Karen as she
fulfills her duties as Cook County Clerk, Pro-
viso Township Democratic Committeeman and
7th Congressional District Committeewoman.
Although Mr. Yarbrough has retired from pub-
lic office and from being a public office holder
he will continue to be an involved citizen giv-
ing of himself to help make the world a better
place in which to live.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to attend votes due to circumstances be-
yond my control. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 475; ‘‘yea’’
on Roll Call No. 476; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No.
477; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 478; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll
Call No. 479; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 480;
‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 481; and ‘‘nay’’ on Roll
Call No. 482.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I rise to support
the amendment offered by Ms. LEE, which I
was proud to cosponsor. I thank the gentle-
woman for her leadership. There is no mem-
ber of this body more principled and more
passionate on this issue than the gentle-
woman from California—no one who has spo-
ken more forcefully on Congress’s responsi-
bility when it comes to war powers.
Authorizing the Iraq War was a mistake—
the worst vote I ever took as a member of the
House of Representatives. We can’t correct
the error. But we must take back the authority
granted to the Bush Administration in 2002 to
go to war against Saddam Hussein’s regime.
This authorization simply isn’t needed for
any current military operations. It’s just bad
policy to keep it on the books.
We’ve seen administration after administra-
tion misuse the other existing war authoriza-
tion—the post-9/11 authorization. It’s been
stretched beyond anything Congress ever in-
tended.
We don’t want to see this administration or
any administration try to use the Iraq War au-
thorization in the same manner—for some pur-
pose Congress never intended.
So, let’s repeal it. Let’s relegate it to the his-
tory books. That’s what this amendment would
do, and I’m glad to support it.
f
CELEBRATING THE 30TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE AMERICAN ASSO-
CIATION OF LAW LIBRARIES’
LEGISLATIVE ADVOCACY PRO-
GRAM
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in celebration of the 30th anniversary of the
American Association of Law Libraries’ legisla-
tive advocacy program. The American Asso-
ciation of Law Libraries (AALL), representing
more than 4,100 members, is the only national
association dedicated to the legal information
profession and its professionals. Founded in
1906 on the belief that everyone—lawyers,
judges, students, and the public—needs timely
access to relevant legal information to make
sound legal arguments and wise legal deci-
sions, AALL members are problem solvers of
the highest order.
In 1989, the AALL Executive Board ap-
pointed AALL members Robert L. Oakley of
Georgetown University Law Library and Jo-
anne Zich of American University Washington
College of Law Library as the first Washington
representatives for the Association. Since that
time, AALL’s advocacy efforts ranged from the
creation and dissemination of government in-
formation to copyright to the privacy of library
users. Its successes include ensuring perma-
nent public access to official, authentic gov-
ernment information by advocating for the es-
sential work of the Library of Congress, the
Law Library of Congress, and the U.S. Gov-
ernment Publishing Office; contributing to the
enactment of transparency laws including the
E-Government Act of 2002 (P.L. 107–347) and
updates to the Freedom Information Act; and,
most recently, supporting my own legislation
to provide public access to Congressional Re-
search Service reports that resulted in lan-
guage included in the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–141) directing the
Congressional Research Service to make its
nonconfidential reports available to the public
on the internet.
The AALL Executive Board and its members
celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Asso-
ciation’s legislative advocacy program by con-
vening on Capitol Hill on July 12, 2019 for
AALL Day on the Hill. AALL members met
with their elected officials about the Associa-
tion’s legislative priorities that include greater
access to government information, access to
justice, government transparency, balanced
copyright laws, and privacy for library users.
I congratulate AALL on three decades of ef-
fective advocacy and wish them many more
years of success.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY8.009 E17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E936 July 17, 2019
ELLA HUMMELDORF EARNS GIRL
SCOUT GOLD AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Ella Hummeldorf of Thompkins
High School for earning her Girl Scout Gold
Award.
The rank of the Gold Award is the highest
achievement a Girl Scout can earn. To earn
this distinguished award, Ella had to spend at
least 80 hours developing and executing a
project to benefit the community, as well as
have a long-term impact on her troop. For her
award project, Ella designed and created two
garden boxes at the Goddard School in Katy.
She led more than eight volunteers over six
months to create the boxes. Ella wanted to
help teach children about why eating healthy
is important. She hopes to attend The Univer-
sity of Texas at Austin in the future and em-
power more girls and troops along the way.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Ella Hummeldorf for earning her Girl Scout
Gold Award. We are confident she will have
continued success in her future endeavors.
We are very proud.
f
HONORING DAVID HAYNES
HON. LARRY BUCSHON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. BUCSHON. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize David Haynes upon his re-
tirement as president of the Terre Haute
Chamber of Commerce. Over the past 5
years, David has been a champion for busi-
nesses in the Terre Haute area.
Throughout David’s tenure as president, the
Terre Haute Chamber of Commerce saw an
increase in membership, the creation of new
businesses, and a resurgence in advocacy ef-
forts at all levels of government. Other initia-
tives the chamber has taken on over the past
5 years include regionalism efforts for West
Central Indiana, recognizing young profes-
sional talent in the community, and estab-
lishing the Downtown Terre Haute organiza-
tion as a part of the chamber. Most recently,
the Terre Haute Chamber of Commerce was
awarded the 2019 Indiana Chamber of the
Year award under David’s leadership.
I thank David for his contributions to the
Terre Haute Community and wish him the best
in retirement with his family by his side.
f
CONGRATULATING THE FORT
WAYNE VET CENTER ON 40
YEARS OF DEDICATED SERVICE
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate the Fort Wayne Vet Center on 40
years of dedicated service to northeast Indi-
ana’s combat veterans and their families. It is
a tremendous honor to recognize the hard
work of an organization that has given so
much to help those who have selflessly put
their lives on the line for their fellow country-
men.
Over the last four decades, the Fort Wayne
Vet Center has gone above and beyond to
provide our heroes and their families with
services to help them prepare for life beyond
the military. With the recent completion of its
expanded brick and mortar facility, I trust the
Center will continue to provide the best care
possible for our heroes of past, present, and
future.
I wish the Fort Wayne Vet Center nothing
but the very best. There is no doubt in my
mind that this organization will continue to do
great things for the greatest among us. May
God bless them in their present and future en-
deavors.
f
RECOGNIZING NICKI VAUGHAN
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize Hall County Chief As-
sistant Public Defender and Gainesville resi-
dent, Nicki Vaughan, who was recently hon-
ored by the Georgia Appleseed Center for
Law and Justice.
Last month, Ms. Vaughan was awarded the
Good Apple Award from the Georgia
Appleseed Center for Law and Justice to
honor her admirable leadership as chair of the
Child Protection and Advocacy Section of the
State Bar.
For three decades, Ms. Vaughan has dedi-
cated her career to helping at-risk children and
youth in Georgia’s juvenile and family court
systems. During her tenure, Ms. Vaughan
launched the state’s first Court Appointed Spe-
cial Advocate Program. She has also gener-
ously given her time to the State Bar’s Execu-
tive Committee and Board and Governors.
Ms. Vaughan has made an incredible im-
pact on the lives of countless children and
families throughout the state, and I am per-
sonally very thankful to Ms. Vaughn and her
colleagues for their dedication to our justice
system.
On behalf of the Ninth District, I hope you
will join me in thanking Nicki Vaughan for her
steadfast commitment to bettering the lives of
our younger generation.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. LLOYD DOGGETT
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, a sched-
uling conflict in Texas prevented my presence
for the July 12th vote on H.R. 1327, the Never
Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent Author-
ization of the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund Act, which was approved 402
to 12. I would have voted for this bill, which I
have sponsored.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 474.
f
SARAH STOUT EARNS GIRL SCOUT
GOLD AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Sarah Stout from Seven Lakes
High School in Katy, Texas for earning her
Girl Scout Gold Award.
The Gold Award is the highest achievement
a Girl Scout can earn. To earn this distin-
guished award, Sarah had to spend at least
80 hours developing and executing a project
to benefit the community, as well as have a
long-term impact on girls. For her Gold Award
project, Sarah chose to redecorate a youth
room at her church, Epiphany of the Lord
Catholic Church. She prepped the room for
painting, designed window covers, painted a
wall mural and created youth group signs.
Sarah has been involved in her church for
many years, serving as a Vacation Bible
School lead, altar server and participating in
summer mission trips. Sarah chose this as her
project so she could give back to the church
she loves and help provide a space for church
and school related programs.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Sarah Stout for earning her Girl Scout Gold
Award. We are confident she will have contin-
ued success in her future endeavors. We are
very proud of her accomplishment.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 50TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE MOON LAND-
ING
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, since
the beginning of mankind, we have been driv-
en by curiosity and a wonder of what is next
for humanity.
We have wondered about our place in the
cosmos for as long as we have been able to
look out into the night sky and see the stars.
And of course, we have been dared by our
own sense of imagination and possibility to try
to breach our gravity and the heavens.
It is with an awe of that sense of exploration
that I rise to commemorate the 50th Anniver-
sary of the Apollo 11 moon landing.
On May 25, 1961, President John F. Ken-
nedy stood in this chamber, before Congress,
and declared that the United States would
send a man to the moon and return him safely
to the Earth.
He implored us to do so, not because it was
easy, but because it was hard.
In one-fell swoop, he harnessed our com-
petitive drive and merged it with mankind’s re-
lentless pursuit of discovery and information
and knowledge.
It was a bold proposition, not because of
this challenge, but also because of our stand-
ing in the Space Race.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17JY8.016 E17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E937
July 17, 2019
Just four years earlier, the Soviets had re-
leased Sputnik into orbit, as the first un-
manned satellite, and in the process taken the
leading the global space race.
Our confidence shaken, we set out to work
on the mission before us.
The 1960s were a tumultuous time in our
pursuit of the moon’s surface. Our path was
not linear and not without setbacks.
Before we could celebrate the triumph of the
Apollo 11 crew and the valor of Neil Arm-
strong, Buzz Aldrin, Michael Collins, we
mourned the crew of Apollo 1, who died short-
ly after their capsule lifted off of Terra Firma.
Before we could walk on the moon, it was
necessary first to orbit the earth.
Indeed, the journey to Mare Tranquillitatis
was long, and a collective, national endeavor.
The pursuit would be the pursuit of three
presidents until, on July 20, 1969, the crew of
Apollo 11 touched down on the Moon’s sur-
face.
The words uttered by Neil Armstrong were
instantly immortalized, because, indeed, it was
one small step for man, one giant leap for
mankind.
This moment was definitely a moment for
joy and celebration for our entire nation.
But for those of us from Houston, this mo-
ment is an occasion for particular and unique
pride.
The flight to the Moon, and indeed all
manned flights, have been guided by the bril-
liant and hardworking men and women of
Houston, who, for close to 60 years, have
been the steady hand, guiding manned space
exploration.
I thank them for all that they do.
As I conclude my remarks, I urge all within
earshot of my voice to maintain that same
sense of discovery and exploration, and won-
der what lies next for us.
And, I evoke President Kennedy’s admoni-
tion to us from 58 years ago, that we should
not be motivated simply by what is easy, but
that we should meet the difficult challenge and
savor what can be accomplished by our col-
lective efforts.
I congratulate all from NASA who have
made the endeavor of space flight their life’s
work.
f
CONGRESSMAN ROB WOODALL
STANDS UP FOR WIDOWS
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I am grateful our talented colleague,
Congressman ROB WOODALL of Georgia,
stood up for what is right. Yesterday on the
House Floor, Congressman WOODALL pro-
moted the Military Surviving Spouses Equity
Act, the Widows Tax elimination.
‘‘We had an opportunity under the new con-
sensus calendar . . . to bring bipartisan legis-
lation to the floor. What they [Democrats] said
was if you bring enough Democrats and Re-
publicans to support your bill, we will give you
a special pathway to get that bill to the floor
for those ideas that we want to celebrate to-
gether.’’
‘‘Congressman Joe Wilson has such a bill
. . . to support the widows of our fallen serv-
icemen and women. Widows and widowers.’’
Because Democrats subverted this by re-
moving it from the calendar, they did not fol-
low their own rule. It is now legislative day
four for a stand-alone vote, with now 371 co-
sponsors, bringing over 86 percent of Mem-
bers of Congress as supporters.
In conclusion, God Bless our Troops, and
we will never forget September 11th in the
Global War on Terrorism.
f
INTRODUCTION OF A RESOLUTION
FORMALLY CONDEMNING THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S SYS-
TEMATIC CRUEL AND INHUMANE
TREATMENT OF MIGRANTS, PAR-
TICULARLY CHILDREN, AT THE
SOUTHERN BORDER
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I introduced a resolution formally condemning
the Trump Administration’s systematic cruel
and inhumane treatment of migrants, particu-
larly children, at the southern border.
This resolution was introduced with the sup-
port of more than fifty of our Democratic col-
leagues who agree that the House of Rep-
resentatives needs to go on the record in their
condemnation of the human rights crisis per-
petrated by the Trump administration.
While Congress has voted to send billions
of dollars in humanitarian aid to improve the
conditions of detainees, the House of Rep-
resentatives has yet to reject Trump’s inhu-
mane and horrific policies. With thousands of
children separated from their families, more
being denied asylum at the border, and far
more languishing in detention facilities without
the basic necessities to sustain a dignified life,
this body must take a stand. The first step to-
ward combatting evil is giving it a name. As
the branch of government closest to the Amer-
ican public, we must formally condemn
Trump’s intolerant and hateful policies against
some of the world’s most vulnerable individ-
uals.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I rise to support
the amendment offered by Mr. Khanna, which
I was proud to cosponsor.
If the President wants to go to war, he
needs to come to Congress first. The Con-
stitution gives Congress—not the President—
the power to declare war.
This is about checks and balances. It does
not prevent the President from defending
America, it simply enforces current law exactly
as it is written in the war powers resolution.
There’s no special category for Iran that al-
lows the President to skip the critical step of
coming to Congress.
Iran is dangerous. I am not blind to the
threat it poses to our allies and our interests,
but addressing those threats need not lead us
into another war. We need to de-escalate
heightened tensions in the region, so we don’t
stumble into a conflict with Iran. Now is the
time for Congress to step up and assert our
constitutional authority.
I urge all of my colleagues to support this
amendment.
f
TRIBUTE TO MR. MUNIR MUHAM-
MAD CO-FOUNDER COMMITTEE
FOR THE REMEMBRANCE OF THE
HONORABLE ELIJAH MUHAMMAD
(CROE)
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, to every man, there is a way, a way
and a way. The high souls take the highway,
and the low souls take the low, while all the
rest on the Mistry flats drift to and from. To
every man there is a way, a way and a way,
and each man decideth which way his soul
will go.
Ever since I have known Mr. Munir Muham-
mad, he has been focused on helping people
understand the work and the value of the Hon-
orable Elijah Muhammad. Munir became ac-
quainted with the teachings of Elijah Muham-
mad in 1972, and never stopped learning. In
1974, he became a member of the nation of
Islam and spent much of the rest of his life ex-
tolling the virtues and the teachings of the life
and works of the Honorable Elijah Muham-
mad.
To further and expand his efforts, Munir be-
came an accomplished journalist and commu-
nity leader. He hosted a regular television
show, documentaries, forums and came up
with other creative ways to keep the Honor-
able Elijah Muhammed in the forefront.
Mr. Munir Muhammad will be sorely missed,
and may he rest in peace.
f
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF
SOUTHERN MISSOURI
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the decade of service that Catholic
Charities of Southern Missouri has provided to
its local communities as it celebrates its 10th
anniversary this year.
When Catholic Charities of Southern Mis-
souri was founded in 2009, there were just
two offices and two employees focused on
family and mental health counseling. However,
its role drastically changed in May 2011, when
a powerful tornado struck the city of Joplin.
Catholic Charities of Southern Missouri raced
into action and became a vital lifeline for those
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17JY8.022 E17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E938 July 17, 2019
who had lost everything. Within a year of the
disaster, Catholic Charities of Southern Mis-
souri had become the largest provider of Dis-
aster Case Management in the entire state.
Soon after, Catholic Charities of Southern
Missouri launched a new program, aimed at
helping to rebuild the community. With the
help of volunteers, it worked to repair 250
homes, and completely restore 15 in the Jop-
lin area. Since then, Catholic Charities of
Southern Missouri has expanded to include
assistance with flood-damaged communities. It
also opened their LifeHouse Crisis Maternity
Home, to serve the needs of homeless preg-
nant women in the community and have even
started Support Services for Veteran Families
Program.
What started as a small operation has
turned into a well-oiled machine. There are
now 85 staff operating out of nine offices
across southern Missouri, covering 25,719
square miles. Due to the large area covered,
it is difficult for those in need to come to these
offices, so the staff goes to them, ensuring
that they help as many as they possibly can.
Their mission is simple, ‘‘Motivated by the love
of Christ, Catholic Charities of Southern Mis-
souri seeks to improve the lives of the vulner-
able by providing quality, compassionate so-
cial services, which meet local needs.’’
Madam Speaker, Catholic Charities of
Southern Missouri exemplifies the best quali-
ties that an organization can possess. They
work every day to serve the needs of the com-
munities of southern Missouri, mainly assisting
those who are in poverty or have recently lost
their entire livelihood. I am honored to rise in
recognition of their services and ask all Ameri-
cans to join me in gratitude for their continued
service.
f
SUGAR LAND NAMES VOLUNTEERS
OF THE YEAR
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Becky Adams, Damon Brownd,
Ron Fawcett, Brenda Frye, Connie Guyton,
Tony Manna, Gabriel Rodriguez, Carmen
Suarez, Trudy Thompson and Michael
Voegtline for being named Volunteers of the
Year by the Sugar Land City Council.
These ten dedicated volunteers are part of
the Serve Sugar Land program that contrib-
uted 27,853 hours of volunteer service to the
city in 2018. Each was nominated and se-
lected by a different city department, from ac-
counting to the municipal court to the animal
shelter. Their commitment to our community
exemplifies ‘‘the Sugar Land way,’’ and we are
lucky to have so many amazing folks who
strive to use their skills to give back to our
community.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to these stellar community leaders for being
named Volunteers of the Year by the Sugar
Land City Council. I thank them for their dedi-
cation to making Sugar Land the best place to
live, work and raise a family.
RECOGNIZING FEDEX-SAFE KIDS
PARTNERSHIP
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in praise of a 20-year partnership between
Memphis-based FedEx and Safe Kids World-
wide and to congratulate FedEx for receiving
the 20th Anniversary Award at this Thursday’s
Childhood Prevention Convention Awards
Luncheon here in Washington, D.C. For 20
years, FedEx has worked with Safe Kids to
advance pedestrian safety for children in
school zones around the country, reaching 17
million children and improving safety at 13,000
schools with educational outreach and infra-
structure improvements. I especially want to
call attention to the dramatic improvements
this partnership has produced in my own dis-
trict. Between 2003 and 2011, Treadwell Ele-
mentary School in Memphis saw 16 pedes-
trians hit in its school zone, ten under the age
of 15, resulting in serious injuries. With a
$40,000 contribution from FedEx, Safe Kids
and the City of Memphis created a safe zone
and there has not been a single crash in that
zone in the eight years since the intervention.
Treadwell’s safe zone became a model and
has resulted in upgrades to the safety zone at
Grahamwood Elementary, also in my district.
I’d also like to applaud Tennessee’s proud leg-
acy in promoting child safety as the first state
to pass a child passenger safety law in 1978.
I would also like to commend Safe Kids
MidSouth, part of the Tennessee network of
Safe Kids coalitions, supported by Memphis-
based LeBonheur Children’s Hospital. FedEx,
with more than 100,000 vehicles on the road,
understands the importance of protecting pe-
destrians. I want to commend its leadership
for the forethought that has brought the
FedEx-Safe Kids partnership to this 20–year
milestone.
f
OPPOSING THE MOTION TO TABLE
H. RES. 498
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, today, I
voted against the Republican motion to table
the article of impeachment offered by Con-
gressman AL GREEN of Texas. To be clear,
President Trump has consistently invoked na-
tivist and racist tropes that have a long and
shameful history in this country. His recent vile
and hateful comments were not just an attack
on our colleagues, they were an attack on all
immigrants and minorities, and on our funda-
mental values as a nation.
I opposed this procedural motion because
this article of impeachment should have been
referred to the House Judiciary Committee.
One resolution related to impeachment has al-
ready been referred to the Committee. The
subject matter of Congressman GREEN’s reso-
lution was separate and distinct and did not go
directly to the issues of obstruction, corruption,
and abuse of power at the core of our inves-
tigation—but it, too, should have been referred
to us. My hope is that future impeachment
resolutions be referred here as well, so that
they can also be considered as part of the
Committee’s overall response to clear allega-
tions of presidential misconduct.
Today’s vote has no effect on that important
work. Our investigation will continue. We will
hear directly from Special Counsel Mueller
one week from today. I very much doubt that
today will be the last action we must consider
to hold President Trump accountable.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
July 18, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JULY 23
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine challenges
for cannabis and banking, focusing on
outside perspectives.
SD–538
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the United
States’ interests in the Freely Associ-
ated States.
SD–366
Committee on Foreign Relations
Business meeting to consider S. 398, to
support the peaceful resolution of the
civil war in Yemen, to address the re-
sulting humanitarian crisis, and to
hold the perpetrators responsible for
murdering a Saudi dissident, S. 2066, to
review United States Saudi Arabia Pol-
icy, S. 1441, to impose sanctions with
respect to the provision of certain ves-
sels for the construction of Russian en-
ergy export pipelines, protocol to the
North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the
Accession of the Republic of North
Macedonia (Treaty Doc. 116–01), and
the nominations of Pamela Bates, of
Virginia, to be Representative of the
United States of America to the Orga-
nization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, with the rank of Ambas-
sador, Jonathan R. Cohen, of Cali-
fornia, to be Ambassador to the Arab
Republic of Egypt, Kelly Craft, of Ken-
tucky, to be the Representative of the
United States of America to the United
Nations, with the rank and status of
Ambassador, and the Representative of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17JY8.027 E17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E939
July 17, 2019
the United States of America in the Se-
curity Council of the United Nations,
and to be Representative of the United
States of America to the Sessions of
the General Assembly of the United
Nations during her tenure of service as
Representative of the United States of
America to the United Nations, Philip
S. Goldberg, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be Ambassador to the Republic
of Colombia, Christopher Landau, of
Maryland, to be Ambassador to the
United Mexican States, Doug Man-
chester, of California, to be Ambas-
sador to the Commonwealth of The Ba-
hamas, Richard B. Norland, of Iowa, to
be Ambassador to Libya, John
Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambas-
sador to the United Arab Emirates,
Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jersey, to
be Ambassador to Romania, Andrew P.
Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Represent-
ative of the United States of America
to the Office of the United Nations and
Other International Organizations in
Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador,
and Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Virginia,
to be United States Executive Director
of the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development for a term
of two years.
S–116
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold oversight hearings to examine
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
SD–226
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine promoting
elder justice, focusing on a call for re-
form.
SD–215
11 a.m.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To receive a briefing on pipeline politics,
focusing on energy and power in Eu-
rope.
LHOB–1334
2:15 p.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Science, Oceans, Fish-
eries, and Weather
To hold hearings to examine America’s
waterfronts, focusing on addressing
economic, recreational, and environ-
mental challenges.
SD–562
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
enforcement of the antitrust laws.
SD–226
4 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To receive a closed briefing on Depart-
ment of Defense Cyber operations.
SVC–217
9:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Business meeting to consider pending
military nominations.
SVC–217
JULY 24
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to
be Under Secretary for Strategy, Pol-
icy, and Plans, and William Bryan, of
Virginia, to be Under Secretary for
Science and Technology, both of the
Department of Homeland Security,
Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, to be
a Governor of the United States Postal
Service, Ann C. Fisher, of the District
of Columbia, and Ashley Jay Elizabeth
Poling, of North Carolina, both to be a
Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory
Commission, Catherine Bird, of Texas,
to be General Counsel of the Federal
Labor Relations Authority for a term
of five years, Rainey R. Brandt, and
Shana Frost Matini, both to be an As-
sociate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia, proposed leg-
islation entitled, ‘‘Securing America’s
Borders Act of 2019’’, S. 1976, to amend
the FAST Act to improve the Federal
permitting process, S. 2065, to require
the Secretary of Homeland Security to
publish an annual report on the use of
deepfake technology, proposed legisla-
tion to require GAO to analyze certain
legislation in order to prevent duplica-
tion and overlap with existing Federal
programs, offices, and initiatives, pro-
posed legislation entitled, ‘‘Taxpayers
Right-to-Know Act’’, proposed legisla-
tion to amend section 3116 of title 5,
United States Code, to clarify the ap-
plicability of the appointment limita-
tions for students appointed under the
expedited hiring authority for post-sec-
ondary students, S. 2107, to increase
the number of CBP Agriculture Spe-
cialists and support staff in the Office
of Field Operations of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, proposed legis-
lation entitled, ‘‘Charging Helps Agen-
cies Realize Government Efficiencies
Act’’, S. 764, to provide for congres-
sional approval of national emergency
declarations, S. 439, to allow Members
of Congress to opt out of the Federal
Employees Retirement System, and
allow Members who opt out of the Fed-
eral Employees Retirement System to
continue to participate in the Thrift
Savings Plan, proposed legislation en-
titled, ‘‘Stop Improper Federal Bonuses
Act’’, H.R. 2590, to require a Depart-
ment of Homeland Security overseas
personnel enhancement plan, and H.R.
3305, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at
2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia
Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith
Cox Post Office Building’’.
SD–342
10 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the ex-
pected nomination of David L.
Norquist to be Deputy Secretary of De-
fense.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the Theo-
dore Roosevelt Genius Prize, focusing
on innovative solutions to reduce
human-predator conflict.
SD–406
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Brent James McIntosh, of
Michigan, to be an Under Secretary,
Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be
General Counsel, and Brian McGuire, of
New York, to be a Deputy Under Sec-
retary, all of the Department of the
Treasury, and Travis Greaves, of the
District of Columbia, to be a Judge of
the United States Tax Court for a term
of fifteen years.
SD–215
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Theodore Rokita, of Indiana,
to be a Director of the Amtrak Board
of Directors, Jennifer L. Homendy, of
Virginia, and Michael Graham, of Kan-
sas, both to be a Member of the Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board,
Carl Whitney Bentzel, of Maryland, to
be a Federal Maritime Commissioner,
Michael J.K. Kratsios, of South Caro-
lina, to be an Associate Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Pol-
icy, and Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to
be Assistant Secretary of Commerce
and Director General of the United
States and Foreign Commercial Serv-
ice.
SH–216
Committee on Rules and Administration
To hold oversight hearings to examine
the Government Publishing Office, Of-
fice of the Inspector General.
SR–301
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider S. 496, to
preserve United States fishing heritage
through a national program dedicated
to training and assisting the next gen-
eration of commercial fishermen, S.
893, to require the President to develop
a strategy to ensure the security of
next generation mobile telecommuni-
cations systems and infrastructure in
the United States and to assist allies
and strategic partners in maximizing
the security of next generation mobile
telecommunications systems, infra-
structure, and software, S. 1148, to
amend title 49, United States Code, to
require the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration to give
preferential consideration to individ-
uals who have successfully completed
air traffic controller training and vet-
erans when hiring air traffic control
specialists, S. 1341, to adopt a certain
California flammability standard as a
Federal flammability standard to pro-
tect against the risk of upholstered
furniture flammability, S. 1349, to ex-
pand enrollment in TSA PreCheck to
expedite commercial travel screening
and improve airport security, S. 1625,
to promote the deployment of commer-
cial fifth-generation mobile networks
and the sharing of information with
communications providers in the
United States regarding security risks
to the networks of those providers, S.
1822, to require the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to issue rules re-
lating to the collection of data with re-
spect to the availability of broadband
services, S. 1858, to ensure the Chief In-
formation Office of the Consumer Prod-
uct Safety Commission has a signifi-
cant role in decisions related to infor-
mation technology, proposed legisla-
tion entitled, ‘‘Regional Ocean Part-
nership Act’’, S. 2035, to require the
Transportation Security Administra-
tion to develop a strategic plan to ex-
pand eligibility for the PreCheck Pro-
gram to individuals with Transpor-
tation Worker Identification Creden-
tials or Hazardous Materials Endorse-
ments, S. 2134, to extend the transfer of
Electronic Travel Authorization Sys-
tem fees from the Travel Promotion
Fund to the Corporation for Travel
Promotion (Brand USA) through fiscal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M17JY8.000 E17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E940 July 17, 2019
year 2027, and a promotion list in the
Coast Guard.
SH–216
Committee on Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health
Policy
To hold hearings to examine confronting
Ebola, focusing on addressing a 21st
century global health crisis.
SD–419
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of E. Sequoyah Simermeyer, of
Maryland, to be Chairman of the Na-
tional Indian Gaming Commission.
SD–628
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
Business meeting to markup an original
bill entitled, ‘‘Small Business Adminis-
tration Reauthorization Act’’.
SR–428A
JULY 25
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine hemp pro-
duction and the 2018 farm bill.
SR–328A
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine pending
military nominations.
SVC–217
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine state and
Federal recommendations for enhanc-
ing school safety against targeted vio-
lence.
SD–342
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the impor-
tance of energy innovation to economic
growth and competitiveness.
SD–366
3 p.m.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine the state of
media freedom in the Organization for
Security and Co-operation in Europe
region.
HVC–210
JULY 30
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the United States Copyright Office.
SD–226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:36 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M17JY8.000 E17JYPT1
D861
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate agreed to the resolution of ratification of the Protocol Amending
Tax Convention with Swiss Confederation (Treaty Doc. 112–1).
Senate agreed to the resolution of ratification of the Protocol Amending
the Tax Convention with Japan (Treaty Doc. 114–1).
Senate agreed to the resolution of ratification of the Protocol Amending
Tax Convention with Luxembourg (Treaty Doc. 111–8).
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S4871–S4921
Measures Introduced: Twenty-one bills and two
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
2135–2155, S. Res. 277, and S. Con. Res. 22.
Page S4907
Measures Passed:
Defending the Integrity of Voting Systems Act:
Senate passed S. 1321, to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit interference with voting sys-
tems under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.
Page S4915
Restore the Harmony Way Bridge Act: Senate
passed S. 1833, to transfer a bridge over the Wabash
River to the New Harmony River Bridge Authority
and the New Harmony and Wabash River Bridge
Authority. Page S4915
Treaties Approved: The following treaty having
passed through its various parliamentary stages, up
to and including the presentation of the resolution
of advice and consent to ratification, two-thirds of
the Senators present having voted in the affirmative,
the resolution of ratification was agreed to by a vote
of 95 yeas to 2 nays (Vote No. 210): Protocol
Amending Tax Convention with Swiss Confederation
(Treaty Doc. 112–1), after taking action on the fol-
lowing amendments proposed thereto: Pages S4873–75
Withdrawn:
McConnell Amendment No. 912, to change the
enactment date. Pages S4873–75
McConnell Amendment No. 913 (to Amendment
No. 912), of a perfecting nature. Pages S4873–75
The following treaty having passed through its
various parliamentary stages, up to and including the
presentation of the resolution of advice and consent
to ratification, two-thirds of the Senators present
having voted in the affirmative, the resolution of
ratification was agreed to by a vote of 95 yeas to 2
nays (Vote No. 211): Protocol Amending the Tax
Convention with Japan (Treaty Doc. 114–1), after
taking action on the following amendments proposed
thereto: Pages S4876–77
Withdrawn:
McConnell Amendment No. 914, to change the
enactment date. Page S4870
McConnell Amendment No. 915 (to Amendment
No. 914), of a perfecting nature. Page S4870
The following treaty having passed through its
various parliamentary stages, up to and including the
presentation of the resolution of advice and consent
to ratification, two-thirds of the Senators present
having voted in the affirmative, the resolution of
ratification was agreed to by a vote of 93 yeas to 3
nays (Vote No. 212): Protocol Amending Tax Con-
vention with Luxembourg (Treaty Doc. 111–8), after
taking action on the following amendments proposed
thereto: Pages S4878–79
Withdrawn:
McConnell Amendment No. 916, to change the
enactment date. Page S4878
McConnell Amendment No. 917 (to Amendment
No. 916), of a perfecting nature. Page S4878
Corker Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of Clifton L. Corker, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Tennessee. Pages S4870–86
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D862 July 17, 2019
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 55 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 213), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S4886
Blanchard Nomination—Cloture: By 55 yeas to
41 nays (Vote No. EX. 214), Senate agreed to the
motion to close further debate on the nomination of
Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Slovenia, Department of State.
Pages S4886–87
Tapia Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of Donald R. Tapia, of
Arizona, to be Ambassador to Jamaica, Department
of State. Pages S4887–S4901
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 67 yeas to 28 nays (Vote No. EX. 215), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S4887
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at 11:30 a.m., on Thursday, July 18,
2019, Senate vote on confirmation of the nomina-
tions of Clifton L. Corker, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, and
Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Slovenia, Department of State; fol-
lowing disposition of the nominations, Senate con-
tinue consideration of the nomination of Donald R.
Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador to Jamaica, De-
partment of State.; and that at 1:45 p.m., Senate
vote on the confirmation of the nomination of Don-
ald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador to Ja-
maica, Department of State. Page S4901
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination of
Clifton L. Corker, to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Tennessee at approxi-
mately 10 a.m., on Thursday, July 18, 2919.
Page S4915
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Robert L. Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be
Chairman of the National Transportation Safety
Board for a term of three years.
Aurelia Skipwith, of Indiana, to be Director of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
Carmen G. Cantor, of Puerto Rico, to be Ambas-
sador to the Federated States of Micronesia.
Michael George DeSombre, of Illinois, to be Am-
bassador to the Kingdom of Thailand.
Sung Y. Kim, of California, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Indonesia.
Charlotte A. Burrows, of the District of Columbia,
to be a Member of the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2023.
Keith E. Sonderling, of Florida, to be a Member
of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
for a term expiring July 1, 2024.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Page S4921
Nomination Discharged: The following nomina-
tion was discharged from further committee consid-
eration and placed on the Executive Calendar:
Mark Lee Greenblatt, of Maryland, to be Inspector
General, Department of the Interior, which was sent
to the Senate on January 17, 2019, from the Senate
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs. Page S4921
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S4905
Executive Communications: Pages S4905–06
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S4906–07
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S4907–09
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S4909–14
Additional Statements: Pages S4904–05
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S4914–15
Privileges of the Floor: Page S4915
Record Votes: Six record votes were taken today.
(Total—215) Pages S4875–76, S4878, S4886–87
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:17 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
July 18, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S4915.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
ECONOMIC MOBILITY
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Sub-
committee on Economic Policy concluded a hearing to
examine economic mobility, focusing on whether the
American dream is in crisis, after receiving testimony
from Oren M. Cass, Manhattan Institute for Policy Re-
search, Berkeley, California; Yuval Levin, Silver Spring,
Maryland, and Ramesh Ponnuru, Kansas City, Missouri,
both of the American Enterprise Institute; Thea M. Lee,
Economic Policy Institute, Washington, D.C.; and Keith
R. Miller, Fanchisee Advocacy Consulting, Meadow Vista,
California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D863
July 17, 2019
DEEP SPACE EXPLORATION
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration plans for deep space ex-
ploration, focusing on the Moon to Mars, after receiving
testimony from James F. Bridenstine, Administrator, Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration.
ELECTRIC BATTERY PRODUCTION AND
WASTE
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine electric battery produc-
tion and waste, focusing on opportunities and challenges,
after receiving testimony from James J. Greenberger,
NAATBatt International, Chicago, Illinois; Michael L.
Sanders, Avicenne Energy, Landenberg, Pennsylvania; and
Ajay Chawan, Navigant Consulting, Inc., Washington,
D.C.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Michelle A.
Bekkering, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assist-
ant Administrator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and Richard K. Bell, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Cote d’Ivoire,
Jessica E. Lapenn, of New York, to be Representative of
the United States of America to the African Union, with
the rank and status of Ambassador, Mary Beth Leonard,
of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador to the Federal Re-
public of Nigeria, and Lana J. Marks, of Florida, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of South Africa, all of the
Department of State, after the nominees testified and an-
swered questions in their own behalf.
MIGRATION AT THE SOUTHERN BORDER
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine unprece-
dented migration at the United States southern border,
focusing on bipartisan policy recommendations from the
Homeland Security Advisory Council, after receiving tes-
timony from Karen Tandy, Chair, Jayson Ahern, Vice
Chair, Sharon W. Cooper, and Leon Fresco, both a Mem-
ber, all of the Customs and Border Protection Families
and Children Care Panel Subcommittee, Homeland Secu-
rity Advisory Council, Department of Homeland Security.
FEDERALLY INCURRED COST OF
REGULATORY CHANGES
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emer-
gency Management concluded a hearing to examine the
Federally incurred cost of regulatory changes and how
such changes are made, after receiving testimony from
James Broughel, George Mason University Mercatus Cen-
ter, and Thomas Berry, Pacific Legal Foundation, both of
Arlington, Virginia; and Richard W. Parker, University
of Connecticut School of Law, Washington, D.C.
INDIAN AFFAIRS
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the following business items:
S. 886, to amend the Omnibus Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2009 to make the Reclamation
Water Settlements Fund permanent, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute; and
S. 2071, to repeal certain obsolete laws relating to
Indians.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a hear-
ing to examine the nominations of Halil Suleyman
Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fifth Circuit, who was introduced by Sen-
ators Wicker and Hyde-Smith, David B. Barlow, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Utah,
who was introduced by Senator Romney, John Fitzgerald
Kness, to be United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Illinois, and Eleni Maria Roumel, of Mary-
land, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal
Claims, after the nominees testified and answered ques-
tions in their own behalf.
COMBATING ROBOCALL FRAUD
Special Committee on Aging: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine combating robocall fraud, focusing on
using telecom advances and law enforcement to stop
scammers and protect seniors, after receiving testimony
from Delany De Leon-Colon, Postal Inspector in Charge,
Criminal Investigations Group, Postal Inspection Service;
Jerry L. Sanders, Jr., Delaware County Sheriff, Drexel
Hill, Pennsylvania; David Frankel, ZipDX LLC, Monte
Serano, California; and Angela Stancik, Ganado, Texas.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 31 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3788–3818; and 5 resolutions, H.
Res. 497–501, were introduced. Pages H5998–99
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H6000–02
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Cuellar to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H5915
Recess: The House recessed at 11:25 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H5924
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D864 July 17, 2019
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rev. John P. Fitzgibbons, S.J.,
Regis University, Denver, Colorado. Page H5924
Raise the Wage Act—Rule for Consideration:
The House agreed to H. Res. 492, providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 582) to provide for
increases in the Federal minimum wage, by a yea-
and-nay vote of 231 yeas to 197 nays, Roll No. 485,
after the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-
nay vote of 231 yeas to 194 nays, Roll No. 484.
Pages H5926–35, H5974–75
Providing for congressional disapproval of the
proposed transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Ara-
bia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and
the Italian Republic of certain defense articles
and services: The House passed S.J. Res. 36, pro-
viding for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the
Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian Republic of cer-
tain defense articles and services, by a yea-and-nay
vote of 238 yeas to 190 nays, Roll No. 486.
Pages H5935–38, H5975–76
Considered under the provisions of H. Res. 491,
which was agreed to yesterday, July 16th.
Providing for congressional disapproval of the
proposed export to the United Arab Emirates,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, and the Republic of France of
certain defense articles and services: The House
passed S.J. Res. 37, providing for congressional dis-
approval of the proposed export to the United Arab
Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, and the Republic of France of cer-
tain defense articles and services, by a yea-and-nay
vote of 238 yeas to 190 nays, Roll No. 487.
Pages H5938–40, H5976
Considered under the provisions of H. Res. 491,
which was agreed to yesterday, July 16th.
Providing for congressional disapproval of the
proposed export to the Kingdom of Saudi Ara-
bia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland of certain defense articles
and services: The House passed S.J. Res. 38, pro-
viding for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ire-
land of certain defense articles and services, by a yea-
and-nay vote of 237 yeas to 190 nays, Roll No. 488.
Pages H5940–41, H5976–77
Considered under the provisions of H. Res. 491,
which was agreed to yesterday, July 16th.
Recommending that the House of Representa-
tives find William P. Barr, Attorney General of
the United States, and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Sec-
retary of Commerce, in contempt of Congress for
refusal to comply with subpoenas duly issued by
the Committee on Oversight and Reform: The
House agreed to H. Res. 497, recommending that
the House of Representatives find William P. Barr,
Attorney General of the United States, and Wilbur
L. Ross, Jr., Secretary of Commerce, in contempt of
Congress for refusal to comply with subpoenas duly
issued by the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
by a yea-and-nay vote of 230 yeas to 198 nays, Roll
No. 489. Pages H5941–49, H5977–78
H. Res. 491, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 3494), relating to consideration of
H. Rept. 116–125 and an accompanying resolution,
and providing for consideration of the resolution (H.
Res. 489) was agreed to yesterday, July 16th.
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Inspector General Protection Act: H.R. 1847,
amended, to require congressional notification for
certain changes in status of inspectors general;
Pages H5950–51
Access to Congressionally Mandated Reports Act:
H.R. 736, amended, to require the Director of the
Government Publishing Office to establish and
maintain an online portal accessible to the public
that allows the public to obtain electronic copies of
all congressionally mandated reports in one place;
Pages H5951–53
Designating the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 11158 Highway 146
North in Hardin, Texas, as the ‘‘Lucas Lowe Post
Office’’: H.R. 1250, amended, to designate the facil-
ity of the United States Postal Service located at
11158 Highway 146 North in Hardin, Texas, as the
‘‘Lucas Lowe Post Office’’; Pages H5953–54
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service
located at 11158 Highway 146 North in Hardin,
Texas, as the ‘Lucas Lowe Memorial Post Office’ ’’;
Page H5954
Designating the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 200 Israel Road Southeast
in Tumwater, Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt
Post Office’’: H.R. 1526, to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at 200 Israel
Road Southeast in Tumwater, Washington, as the
‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Office’’; Pages H5954–55
Designating the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 66 Grove Court in Elgin,
Illinois, as the ‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez Memorial
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D865
July 17, 2019
Post Office Building’’: H.R. 1844, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at
66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the ‘‘Corporal
Alex Martinez Memorial Post Office Building’’;
Pages H5955–56
Designating the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 2509 George Mason Drive
in Virginia Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith
Cox Post Office Building’’: H.R. 3305, to designate
the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia
Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith Cox Post Office
Building’’ Pages H5956–57
Designating the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 100 Calle Alondra in San
Juan, Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regiment
Post Office Building’’: H.R. 2325, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at
100 Calle Alondra in San Juan, Puerto Rico, as the
‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post Office Building’’; and
Pages H5957–58
Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of
2019: H.R. 748, amended, to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
high cost employer-sponsored health coverage, by a
2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 419 yeas to 6 nays, Roll No.
493. Pages H5958–73, H5980–81
Consensus Calendar: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s designation, pursuant to clause 7(a)(1) of
rule 15, of H.R. 748, to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high
cost employer-sponsored health coverage, as the
measure on the Consensus Calendar to be considered
this week. Page H5958
Question of Privilege: Representative Green (TX)
rose to a question of the privileges of the House and
submitted a resolution. Upon examination of the res-
olution, the Chair determined that the resolution
qualified. Subsequently, the House agreed to the
McCarthy motion to table H. Res. 498, impeaching
Donald John Trump, President of the United States,
of high misdemeanors, by a yea-and-nay vote of 332
yeas to 95 nays with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll
No. 483. Pages H5973–74
Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pol-
lard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020: The House passed H.R. 3494, to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for intel-
ligence and intelligence-related activities of the
United States Government, the Community Manage-
ment Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement and Disability System, by a yea-and-nay
vote of 397 yeas to 31 nays, Roll No. 492.
Pages H5978–80
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal years 2018, 2019,
and 2020 for intelligence and intelligence-related ac-
tivities of the United States Government, the Com-
munity Management Account, and the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Retirement and Disability System,
and for other purposes.’’. Page H5980
Agreed to:
Kennedy amendment (No. 11 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–154) that was debated on July 16th
that establishes the Foreign Threat Response Center,
comprised of analysts from all elements of the intel-
ligence community, to provide comprehensive assess-
ment of foreign efforts to influence United States’
political processes and elections by the Governments
of Russia, Iran, North Korea, China, and any other
foreign country the Director determines appropriate
(by a recorded vote of 237 ayes to 196 noes, Roll
No. 491). Page H5979
Rejected:
Chabot amendment (No. 7 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–154) that was debated on July 16th
that sought to strike section 401 of the bill which
establishes the Climate Security Advisory Council
under the Director of National Intelligence (by a re-
corded vote of 178 ayes to 255 noes, Roll No. 490).
Pages H5978–79
Agreed that the Clerk be authorized in the en-
grossment to make technical corrections and con-
forming changes to the bill. Page H5981
H. Res. 491, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 3494), relating to consideration of
H. Rept. 116–125 and an accompanying resolution,
and providing for consideration of the resolution (H.
Res. 489) was agreed to yesterday, July 16th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, July 18th. Page H5981
Senate Referral: S. 375 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform. Page H5996
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H5935.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Nine yea-and-nay votes and
two recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H5973–74, H5974,
H5974–75, H5975–76, H5976, H5976–77,
H5977–78, H5978, H5979 H5979–80, and
H5980–81. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 9:28 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D866 July 17, 2019
Committee Meetings
ASSESSING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Bio-
technology, Horticulture, and Research held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Assessing the Effectiveness of the Na-
tional Organic Program’’. Testimony was heard from
Greg Ibach, Under Secretary, Marketing and Regu-
latory Programs, Department of Agriculture.
EDUCATING OUR EDUCATORS: HOW
FEDERAL POLICY CAN BETTER SUPPORT
TEACHERS AND SCHOOL LEADERS
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Edu-
cation; and Subcommittee on Higher Education and
Workforce Investment held a joint hearing entitled
‘‘Educating our Educators: How Federal Policy Can
Better Support Teachers and School Leaders’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Tricia McManus, Assistant Su-
perintendent for Leadership, Professional Develop-
ment and School Transformation, Hillsborough
County Public Schools, Tampa, Florida; John White,
State Superintendent of Education, Louisiana; and
public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Full Committee
held a markup on H.R. 3375, the ‘‘Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act’’; H.R. 2211, the ‘‘STURDY Act’’;
H.R. 3172, the ‘‘Safe Sleep for Babies Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3170, the ‘‘Safe Cribs Act of 2019’’; H.R.
1618, the ‘‘Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon Mon-
oxide Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019’’; H.R. 806,
the ‘‘Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2647, the ‘‘SOFFA’’; H.R. 1315, the ‘‘Blue
Collar to Green Collar Jobs Development Act of
2019’’; H.R. 2665, the ‘‘Smart Energy and Water
Efficiency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2044, the ‘‘Smart
Building Acceleration Act’’; H.R. 359, the ‘‘Enhanc-
ing Grid Security through Public-Private Partner-
ships Act’’; H.R. 360, the ‘‘Cyber Sense Act of
2019’’; H.R. 362, the ‘‘Energy Emergency Leader-
ship Act’’; H.R. 370, the ‘‘Pipeline and LNG Facil-
ity Cybersecurity Preparedness Act’’; H.R. 2088, a
bill to amend the Energy Independence and Security
Act of 2007 to reauthorize the Energy Efficiency and
Conservation Block Grant Program, and for other
purposes; H.R. 2041, the ‘‘Weatherization Enhance-
ment and Local Energy Efficiency Investment and
Accountability Act’’; H.R. 2119, a bill to amend the
Energy Policy Act of 2005 to reauthorize grants for
improving the energy efficiency of public buildings,
and for other purposes; H.R. 2781, the ‘‘EM-
POWER for Health Act of 2019’’; H.R. 728, the
‘‘Title VIII Nursing Workforce Reauthorization Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 1058, the ‘‘Autism CARES Act of
2019’’; H.R. 2507, the ‘‘Newborn Screening Saves
Lives Reauthorization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 776, the
‘‘Emergency Medical Services for Children Program
Reauthorization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2035, the ‘‘Life-
span Respite Care Reauthorization Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2296, the ‘‘METRIC Act’’; and H.R. 2328, the
‘‘REACH Act’’. H.R. 3375, H.R. 2211, H.R. 3172,
H.R. 3170, H.R. 1618, H.R. 806, H.R. 1315, H.R.
2665, H.R. 2088, H.R. 2041, H.R. 2119, H.R.
2781, H.R. 728, H.R. 1058, H.R. 2507, H.R.
2035, H.R. 2296, and H.R. 2328 were ordered re-
ported, as amended. H.R. 2647, H.R. 2044, H.R.
359, H.R. 360, H.R. 362, H.R. 370, and H.R. 776
were ordered reported, without amendment.
EXAMINING FACEBOOK’S PROPOSED
CRYPTOCURRENCY AND ITS IMPACT ON
CONSUMERS, INVESTORS, AND THE
AMERICAN FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Facebook’s Proposed
Cryptocurrency and Its Impact on Consumers, Inves-
tors, and the American Financial System’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
markup on H. Res. 326, expressing the sense of the
House regarding United States efforts to resolve the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict through a negotiated two-
state solution; H. Res. 246, opposing efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel and the Global Boy-
cott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement targeting
Israel; H.R. 1850, the ‘‘Palestinian International
Terrorism Support Prevention Act of 2019’’; H.R.
1837, the ‘‘United States-Israel Cooperation En-
hancement and Regional Security Act’’; H. Res. 138,
expressing support for addressing the Arab-Israeli
conflict in a concurrent track with the Israeli-Pales-
tinian peace process and commending Arab and
Muslim-majority states that have improved bilateral
relations with Israel; H. Con. Res. 32, expressing the
sense of Congress regarding the execution-style mur-
ders of United States citizens Ylli, Agron, and
Mehmet Bytyqi in the Republic of Serbia in July
1999; H. Res. 442, observing 10 years since the war
in Sri Lanka ended on May 18, 2009, commemo-
rating the lives lost, and expressing support for tran-
sitional justice, reconciliation, reconstruction, repara-
tion, and reform in Sri Lanka, which are necessary
to ensure a lasting peace and a prosperous future for
all Sri Lankans; H.R. 3501, the ‘‘Safeguard our Elec-
tions and Combat Unlawful Interference in Our De-
mocracy Act’’; H.R. 2097, to recognize the Hmong,
Khmer, Laotian, and other ethnic groups commonly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D867
July 17, 2019
referred to as Montagnards, who supported and de-
fended the Armed Forces during the conflict in
Southeast Asia, authorize assistance to support activi-
ties relating to clearance of unexploded ordnance and
other explosive remnants of war, and for other pur-
poses; and H. Res. 127, expressing the sense of the
House of Representatives on the importance and vi-
tality of the United States alliances with Japan and
the Republic of Korea, and our trilateral cooperation
in the pursuit of shared interests. H.R. 3501, H.R.
1850, H. Con. Res. 32, H.R. 2097, and H. Res.
127 were ordered reported, without amendment. H.
Res. 326, H. Res. 246, H.R. 1837, H. Res. 138,
and H. Res. 442 were ordered reported, as amended.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 2203, the ‘‘Homeland Security
Improvement Act’’; H.R. 3106, the ‘‘Domestic Ter-
rorism DATA Act’’; H.R. 3246, the ‘‘Traveling Par-
ents Screening Consistency Act of 2019’’; H.R.
3318, the ‘‘Emerging Transportation Security
Threats Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3320, the ‘‘Securing the
Homeland Security Supply Chain Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3356, the ‘‘Veterans Expedited TSA Screening
Safe Travel Act’’; H.R. 3413, the ‘‘DHS Acquisition
Reform Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3525, the ‘‘U.S. Border
Patrol Medical Screening Standards Act’’; H.R.
3526, the ‘‘Counter Terrorist Network Act’’; H.R.
3669, the ‘‘Weatherizing Infrastructure in the North
and Terrorism Emergency Readiness Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3670, the ‘‘Short-term Detention Act’’; H.R.
3675, the ‘‘Trusted Traveler Reconsideration and
Restoration Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3691, the ‘‘TRANS-
LATE Act’’; H.R. 3694, the ‘‘Helping Families Fly
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3699, the ‘‘Pipeline Security
Act’’; H.R. 3710, the ‘‘Cybersecurity Vulnerability
Remediation Act’’; and H.R. 3722, the ‘‘Joint Task
Force to Combat Opioid Trafficking Act of 2019’’.
H.R. 2203, H.R. 3525, H.R. 3670, H.R. 3106,
H.R. 3318, H.R. 3320, H.R. 3413, and H.R. 3699
were ordered reported, as amended. H.R. 3246, H.R.
3356, H.R. 3526, H.R. 3669, H.R. 3675, H.R.
3691, H.R. 3694, H.R. 3710, and H.R. 3722 were
ordered reported, without amendment.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 3239, the ‘‘Humanitarian Standards
for Individuals in Customs and Border Protection
Custody Act’’. H.R. 3239 was ordered reported, as
amended.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 1373, the ‘‘Grand Canyon Cen-
tennial Protection Act’’; H.R. 2181, the ‘‘Chaco Cul-
tural Heritage Area Protection Act of 2019’’; and
H.R. 3405, the ‘‘Removing Uranium from the Crit-
ical Minerals List Act’’. H.R. 1373 and H.R. 3405
were ordered reported, as amended. H.R. 2181 was
ordered reported, without amendment.
TO THE CLOUD! THE CLOUDY ROLE OF
FedRAMP IN IT MODERNIZATION
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Government Operations held a hearing entitled ‘‘To
the Cloud! The Cloudy Role of FedRAMP in IT
Modernization’’. Testimony was heard from Anil
Cheriyan, Director, Technology Transformation Serv-
ices, General Services Administration; Jack Wilmer,
Deputy Chief Information Officer for Cybersecurity,
Department of Defense; Joseph Klimavicz, Deputy
Assistant Attorney General and Chief Information
Officer, Department of Justice; Jose Arrieta, Chief
Information Officer, Department of Health and
Human Services; and public witnesses.
SCIENTIFIC INTEGRITY IN FEDERAL
AGENCIES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Research and Technology; and Sub-
committee on Investigations and Oversight held a
joint hearing entitled ‘‘Scientific Integrity in Federal
Agencies’’. Testimony was heard from John Neu-
mann, Managing Director, Science, Technology As-
sessment, and Analytics, Government Accountability
Office; and public witnesses.
THE FUTURE OF ELECTRICITY DELIVERY:
MODERNIZING AND SECURING OUR
NATION’S ELECTRICITY GRID
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Energy held a hearing entitled ‘‘The
Future of Electricity Delivery: Modernizing and Se-
curing our Nation’s Electricity Grid’’. Testimony
was heard from Karen Evans, Assistant Secretary, Of-
fice of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emer-
gency Response, Department of Energy; Juan Torres,
Co-Chair, Grid Modernization Lab Consortium and
Associate Laboratory Director, Energy Systems Inte-
gration, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, De-
partment of Energy; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 3537, the ‘‘Veteran Entrepreneur-
ship Training Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3734, the ‘‘Suc-
cessful Entrepreneurship for Reservists and Veterans
Act’’; H.R. 1615, the ‘‘Verification Alignment and
Service-disabled Business Adjustment Act’’; H.R.
499, the ‘‘Service-Disabled Veterans Small Business
Continuation Act’’; and H.R. 3661, the ‘‘Patriotic
Employer Protection Act’’. H.R. 1615 was ordered
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D868 July 17, 2019
reported, as amended. H.R. 499, H.R. 3661, H.R.
3734, and H.R. 3537 were ordered reported, with-
out amendment.
STATE OF AVIATION SAFETY
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Aviation held a hearing entitled ‘‘State
of Aviation Safety’’. Testimony was heard from Dana
Schulze, National Transportation Safety Board; and
public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity held a hearing on H.R. 561, the
‘‘Protecting Business Opportunities for Veterans Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 716, the ‘‘Homeless Veterans Legal
Services Act’’; H.R. 1615, the ‘‘VA–SBA Act’’; H.R.
2227, the ‘‘Gold Star Spouses and Spouses of Injured
Servicemembers Leasing Relief Expansion Act of
2019’’; H.R. 2618, to amend the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act to provide a guarantee of residency
for registration of businesses of spouses of members
of the uniformed services, to improve occupational
license portability for military spouses through inter-
state compacts, and for other purposes; H.R. 2924,
the ‘‘Housing for Women Veterans Act’’; legislation
to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize
State approving agencies to carry out outreach activi-
ties; legislation to amend title 38, United States
Code, to require that educational institutions abide
by Principles of Excellence as a condition of approval
for purposes of the educational assistance programs
of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes; legislation to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require proprietary for-profit edu-
cational institutions to comply with Federal revenue
limits to participate in educational assistance pro-
grams of the Department of Veterans Affairs; legisla-
tion to amend title 38, United States Code, to re-
quire that certain educational institutions have let-
ters of credit as a condition of approval for purposes
of the educational assistance programs of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes;
legislation on the Forever GI Bill Class Evaluation
Act; legislation on the VA Economic Hardship Re-
port Act; legislation to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to collect overpayments of specially
adapted housing assistance; legislation on the legal
Services for Homeless Veterans Act; legislation on
the GI Bill Access to Career Credentials Act; legisla-
tion to amend title 38, United States Code, to ex-
tend the time period under which an election must
be made for entitlement to educational assistance
under the All-Volunteer Educational Assistance Pro-
gram of Department of Veterans Affairs; legislation
on the Student Veteran Empowerment Act of 2019;
and legislation to amend title 38, United States
Code, to increase the monthly housing stipend under
the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program for in-
dividuals who pursue programs of education solely
through distance learning on more than a half-time.
Testimony was heard from Charmain Bogue, Execu-
tive Director, Education Service, Veterans Benefits
Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs; Jef-
frey London, Veterans Benefits Administration, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs; David Carroll, Execu-
tive Director, Mental Health Operations, Veterans
Health Administration, Department of Veterans Af-
fairs; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JULY 18, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: to hold
hearings to examine agricultural research and 2018 Farm
Bill implementation, 10:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Armed Services: business meeting to con-
sider pending military nominations, 9:30 a.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine export control reform imple-
mentation, focusing on outside perspectives, 10 a.m.,
SD–538.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee
on Water and Power, to hold hearings to examine oppor-
tunities to increase water storage and conservation
through rehabilitation and development of water supply
infrastructure, including S. 1570, to provide flexibility to
allow greater aquifer recharge, S. 1932, to support water
infrastructure in Reclamation States, and S. 2044, to
amend the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of
2009 to establish an Aging Infrastructure Account, to
amend the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978 to
provide additional funds under that Act, to establish a re-
view of flood control rule curves pilot project within the
Bureau of Reclamation, 10:30 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 1273, to amend title 17, United States Code, to estab-
lish an alternative dispute resolution program for copy-
right small claims, S. 1883, to improve the prohibitions
on money laundering, and the nominations of Douglas
Russell Cole, and Matthew Walden McFarland, both to
be a United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio, Robert Anthony Molloy, to be Judge for
the District Court of the Virgin Islands, and Kea
Whetzal Riggs, to be United States District Judge for
the District of New Mexico, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D869
July 17, 2019
House
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Courts, In-
tellectual Property, and the Internet, hearing entitled
‘‘Counterfeits and Cluttering: Emerging Threats to the
Integrity of the Trademark System and the Impact on
American Consumers and Businesses’’, 9 a.m., 2141 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing on H.R. 2245, the ‘‘CECIL
Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, hearing on H.R. 401, the ‘‘Lowell Observatory
Conveyance Act’’; H.R. 1492, the ‘‘Yucca House National
Monument Boundary Revision Act’’; H.R. 1572, the
‘‘Botanical Sciences and Native Plant Materials Research,
Restoration, and Promotion Act’’; and H.R. 2819, the
‘‘Gold Star Families National Monument Extension Act’’,
10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing with Acting Secretary of
Homeland Security Kevin K. McAleenan’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to re-
ceive a briefing to examine truth, reconciliation, and heal-
ing toward a unified future, 10 a.m., 2167, Rayburn
Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D870 July 17, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, July 18
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Clifton L. Corker, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Tennessee, and vote on confirmation of the nominations
of Clifton L. Corker, and Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Slovenia, Depart-
ment of State, at 11:30 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Lynda
Blanchard, Senate will continue consideration of the nom-
ination of Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador
to Jamaica, Department of State, and vote on confirma-
tion of the nomination at 1:45 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Thursday, July 18
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.R. 582—
Raise the Wage Act.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Banks, Jim, Ind., E936
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E937
Bucshon, Larry, Ind., E936
Carter, John R., Tex., E934
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E938
Collins, Chris, N.Y., E935
Collins, Doug, Ga., E936
Davis, Danny K., Ill., E934, E935, E937
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E934
Doggett, Lloyd, Tex., E936
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E935, E937
Fulcher, Russ, Idaho, E933
Granger, Kay, Tex., E935
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E936
Long, Billy, Mo., E937
Luetkemeyer, Blaine, Mo., E933
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E938
Olson, Pete, Tex., E933, E935, E936, E936, E938
Quigley, Mike, Ill., E935
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E934
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E933
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E933
Wasserman Schultz, Debbie, Fla., E933
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E937
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:49 Jul 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D17JY9.REC D17JYPT1
