Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2049
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019 No. 34
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. RASKIN).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 25, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JAMIE
RASKIN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
You sent Your prophet Isaiah to Your
people when they were in need of hope
and vision. May Isaiah’s prophetic
words guide us still.
Send Your spirit upon this Nation
and this Congress, that we may be open
to hearing Your word and actively seek
the salvation You alone can bring.
Make of us, and the Members of this
people’s House, a people of compassion
and holiness. In pursuing the avenues
of justice for all, may we be a sign to
the community of nations.
The issues of this coming week prom-
ise to be contentious. Send Your spirit
of amity and understanding, that the
proceedings of the legislative sessions
might be a model of good governance.
Lord, bless the Members of the peo-
ple’s House today and all days, and
may all that is done be for Your great-
er honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote on
agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I object to
the vote on the ground that a quorum
is not present and make the point of
order that a quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
THOMPSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
NATIONAL DEBT
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in disappointment that, once
again, the Federal Government is near-
ing another debt limit. Our national
debt is a record $22 trillion.
I blame both parties for this reckless
and immoral burden that has been
placed on our children. We do not have
a taxing problem in Congress; we have
a spending problem in Congress.
Both parties have lacked fiscal re-
sponsibility over the past four decades.
Both parties have operated in deficits
when they were in power.
Mr. Speaker, it will take both parties
working together to control our spend-
ing. Our national debt is the single big-
gest challenge that faces our great
country, and, surely, we can make it a
bipartisan movement to cut unneces-
sary and wasteful spending while still
funding our most important priorities
of Social Security, Medicare, and our
national defense.
f
PENN STATE’S THON 2019
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, on February 15, thou-
sands of students from my alma mater,
Penn State University, participated in
a 46-hour dance marathon called
THON.
THON is the accumulation of a year-
long fundraising effort to raise money
for the fight against childhood cancer.
Since the first THON took place in the
mid-1970s, students have raised more
than $157 million.
All of the proceeds go to the Four
Diamonds at Penn State University
Children’s Hospital. Four Diamonds en-
sures that families who are battling pe-
diatric cancer are not faced with any
costs, allowing them to fully focus on
the needs of their child.
During the THON event, participants
stand and dance 46 hours straight,
without sleep. THON gives students the
chance to stand in solidarity with
those affected by this terrible disease.
Mr. Speaker, every year, THON is the
largest student-run philanthropy in the
world; and every year, I am in awe of
the passion and thoughtfulness that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.000 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2050 February 25, 2019
our Penn State students have for this
great cause.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 7 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1630
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. PETERS) at 4 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PREVENTING ILLEGAL RADIO
ABUSE THROUGH ENFORCEMENT
ACT
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 583) to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to provide for en-
hanced penalties for pirate radio, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 583
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Preventing
Illegal Radio Abuse Through Enforcement
Act’’ or the ‘‘PIRATE Act’’.
SEC. 2. PIRATE RADIO ENFORCEMENT ENHANCE-
MENTS.
Title V of the Communications Act of 1934
(47 U.S.C. 501 et seq.) is amended by adding
at the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 511. ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR PIRATE
RADIO BROADCASTING; ENFORCE-
MENT SWEEPS; REPORTING.
‘‘(a) INCREASED GENERAL PENALTY.—Any
person who willfully and knowingly does or
causes or suffers to be done any pirate radio
broadcasting shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $2,000,000.
‘‘(b) VIOLATION OF THIS ACT, RULES, OR
REGULATIONS.—Any person who willfully and
knowingly violates this Act or any rule, reg-
ulation, restriction, or condition made or
imposed by the Commission under authority
of this Act, or any rule, regulation, restric-
tion, or condition made or imposed by any
international radio or wire communications
treaty or convention, or regulations annexed
thereto, to which the United States is party,
relating to pirate radio broadcasting shall,
in addition to any other penalties provided
by law, be subject to a fine of not more than
$100,000 for each day during which such of-
fense occurs, in accordance with the limit
described in subsection (a).
‘‘(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of the PI-
RATE Act, and annually thereafter, the
Commission shall submit to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report summarizing the implemen-
tation of this section and associated enforce-
ment activities for the previous fiscal year,
which may include the efforts by the Com-
mission to enlist the cooperation of Federal,
State, and local law enforcement personnel
(including United States attorneys and the
United States Marshals Service) for service
of process, collection of fines or forfeitures,
seizures of equipment, and enforcement of
orders.
‘‘(d) ENFORCEMENT SWEEPS.—
‘‘(1) ANNUAL SWEEPS.—Not less than once
each year, the Commission shall assign ap-
propriate enforcement personnel to focus
specific and sustained attention on the
elimination of pirate radio broadcasting
within the top 5 radio markets identified as
prevalent for such broadcasts. Such effort
shall include identifying, locating, and tak-
ing enforcement actions designed to termi-
nate such operations.
‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL MONITORING.—Within 6
months after conducting the enforcement
sweeps required by paragraph (1), the Com-
mission shall conduct monitoring sweeps to
ascertain whether the pirate radio broad-
casting identified by enforcement sweeps is
continuing to broadcast and whether addi-
tional pirate radio broadcasting is occurring.
‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON REMAINING ENFORCE-
MENT.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the
Commission shall not decrease or diminish
the regular enforcement efforts targeted to
pirate radio broadcast stations for other
times of the year.
‘‘(e) STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT AU-
THORITY.—The Commission may not preempt
any State or local law prohibiting pirate
radio broadcasting.
‘‘(f) REVISION OF COMMISSION RULES RE-
QUIRED.—The Commission shall revise its
rules to require that, absent good cause, in
any case alleging a violation of subsection
(a) or (b), the Commission shall proceed di-
rectly to issue a notice of apparent liability
without first issuing a notice of unlicensed
operation.
‘‘(g) PIRATE RADIO BROADCASTING DATA-
BASE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, and semi-annually thereafter, the Com-
mission shall publish a database in a clear
and legible format of all licensed radio sta-
tions operating in the AM and FM bands.
The database shall be easily accessible from
the Commission home page through a direct
link. The database shall include the fol-
lowing information:
‘‘(A) Each licensed station, listed by the
assigned frequency, channel number, or Com-
mission call letters.
‘‘(B) All entities that have received a no-
tice of unlicensed operation, notice of appar-
ent liability, or forfeiture order issued by the
Commission.
‘‘(2) CLEAR IDENTIFICATION.—The Commis-
sion shall clearly identify in the database—
‘‘(A) each licensed station as a station li-
censed by the Commission; and
‘‘(B) each entity described in paragraph
(1)(B) as operating without a Commission li-
cense or authorization.
‘‘(h) DEFINITION OF PIRATE RADIO BROAD-
CASTING.—In this section, the term ‘pirate
radio broadcasting’ means the transmission
of communications on spectrum frequencies
between 535 and 1705 kilohertz, inclusive, or
87.7 and 108 megahertz, inclusive, without a
license issued by the Commission, but does
not include unlicensed operations in compli-
ance with part 15 of title 47, Code of Federal
Regulations.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. TONKO) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. LATTA) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R.
583, the Preventing Illegal Radio Abuse
Through Enforcement Act, or PIRATE
Act, a bill sponsored by myself and Mr.
BILIRAKIS. This measure is a bipar-
tisan, commonsense bill that passed
the House last Congress.
Mr. Speaker, first, a heartfelt thank
you to everyone who has worked on
this measure. I thank Representative
BILIRAKIS for agreeing to lead this ef-
fort with me in this Congress. I thank
our former colleague, Congressman
Leonard Lance, for all his work on this
bill in the past. And I thank the New
York State broadcasters for their dedi-
cation.
For years, I, along with many Mem-
bers of the New York and New Jersey
delegations, have voiced our concern
that pirate radio operators are a threat
to Americans’ public health and safety.
Yet these lawbreakers are as prevalent
as ever, and their actions have been
met with few consequences. This legis-
lation responds directly to that threat.
The FCC has taken some positive
steps to remedy this issue, but more
needs to be done.
In short, the PIRATE Act would in-
crease penalties and restrictions on pi-
rate radio.
Whether a radio frequency is being
used by first responders coordinating
to save lives, or parents who want to
keep obscenity and bigotry away from
their children, for example, our com-
munities are better served when broad-
casters respect the rule of law.
Previous drafts of the PIRATE Act
included provisions creating liability
for those who facilitate illegal pirate
radio operation. These provisions were
removed as being duplicative with ex-
isting law. For example, under current
law, the FCC can hold a property owner
liable for allowing a pirate radio oper-
ator access or other assistance.
Cutting these provisions should not
be taken as limiting the Commission’s
authority to assess fines against those
who assist illegal pirate operations. On
the contrary, the consequences estab-
lished in this act would also apply in
these contexts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.003 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2051
February 25, 2019
The text of the bill before us today
includes changes that were requested
in the Senate last Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
letters of support for H.R. 583 from the
50 State broadcast associations.
JANUARY 18, 2019.
50 State Broadcasters Associations Urge Pas-
sage of the Bipartisan PIRATE Act
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES SCHUMER,
Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADERS
MCCARTHY, MCCONNELL AND SCHUMER: The
undersigned broadcasters associations rep-
resenting local, over-the-air broadcast sta-
tions in all 50 States, the District of Colum-
bia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
urge your swift consideration and passage of
the Preventing Illegal Radio Abuse Through
Enforcement (PIRATE) Act (H.R. 583). The
PIRATE Act would provide the Federal Com-
munications Commission (FCC) with critical
new enforcement measures to combat pirate
radio operations. Last Congress, substan-
tially similar bipartisan legislation (H.R.
5709, 115th) passed the House of Representa-
tives unanimously.
For years unauthorized pirate radio sta-
tions have harmed communities across the
country by undermining the Emergency
Alert System, interfering with airport com-
munications, posing direct health risks and
interfering with licensed stations’ abilities
to serve their listeners. The time has come
to take significant steps to resolve this vex-
ing problem.
The PIRATE Act gives the FCC additional
tools to address the growing pirate radio
problem. It provides the authority to levy in-
creased fines up to $100,000 per violation and
$2,000,000 in total. The PIRATE Act stream-
lines the enforcement process and requires
the FCC to conduct pirate radio enforcement
sweeps in cities with a concentration of pi-
rate radio stations. It recognizes the impor-
tance of FCC coordination with federal, state
and local law enforcement authorities. Fi-
nally, the PIRATE Act would create a data-
base of all licensed radio stations operating
in the AM and FM bands as well as those en-
tities that have been subject to enforcement
actions for illegal operation.
We are reaching the point where illegal pi-
rate stations undermine the legitimacy and
purpose of the FCC’s licensing system to the
detriment of listeners in communities across
the country. The PIRATE Act will help the
FCC restore integrity to the system. For
these reasons, local broadcasters across our
great nation fully support the bipartisan PI-
RATE Act and urge its swift passage without
changes.
Respectfully,
Sharon Tinsley, Alabama Broadcasters As-
sociation; Cathy Hiebert, Alaska Broad-
casters Association; Christopher Kline, Ari-
zona Broadcasters Association; Luke Story,
Arkansas Broadcasters Association; Joe
Berry, California Broadcasters Association;
Justin Sasso, Colorado Broadcasters Associa-
tion; Michael Patrick Ryan, Connecticut
Broadcasters Association; C. Patrick Rob-
erts, Florida Association of Broadcasters;
Bob Houghton, Georgia Association of
Broadcasters; Jamie Hartnett, Hawaii Asso-
ciation of Broadcasters; Connie Searles,
Idaho State Broadcasters Association; Den-
nis Lyle, Illinois Broadcasters Association.
Dave Arland, Indiana Broadcasters Asso-
ciation; Sue Toma, Iowa Broadcasters Asso-
ciation; Kent Cornish, Kansas Association of
Broadcasters; Chris Winkle, Kentucky
Broadcasters Association; Polly Prince
Johnson, Louisiana Association of Broad-
casters; Suzanne Goucher, Maine Association
of Broadcasters; Lisa Reynolds, Maryland/
D.C./Delaware (MDCD) Broadcasters Associa-
tion; Jordan Walton, Massachusetts Broad-
casters Association; Karole L. White, Michi-
gan Association of Broadcasters; Wendy
Paulson, Minnesota Broadcasters Associa-
tion; Margaret Perkins, Mississippi Associa-
tion of Broadcasters; Mark Gordon, Missouri
Broadcasters Association.
Dewey Bruce, Montana Broadcasters Asso-
ciation; Jim Timm, Nebraska Broadcasters
Association; Mitch Fox, Nevada Broad-
casters Association; Tracy Caruso, New
Hampshire Association of Broadcasters; Paul
Rotella, New Jersey Broadcasters Associa-
tion; Paula Maes, New Mexico Broadcasters
Association; David Donovan, New York
State Broadcasters Association; Lisa Rey-
nolds, North Carolina Association of Broad-
casters; Beth Helfrich, North Dakota Broad-
casters Association; Christine Merritt, Ohio
Association of Broadcasters; Vance Harrison,
Oklahoma Association of Broadcasters; John
Tamerlano, Oregon Association of Broad-
casters.
Joe Conti, Pennsylvania Association of
Broadcasters; Jose A. Ribas Dominicci,
Radio Broadcasters Association of Puerto
Rico; Lori Needham, Rhode Island Broad-
casters Association; Margaret Wallace,
South Carolina Broadcasters Association;
Steve Willard, South Dakota Broadcasters
Association; Whit Adamson, Tennessee Asso-
ciation of Broadcasters; Oscar Rodriguez,
Texas Association of Broadcasters; Michele
Zabriskie, Utah Broadcasters Association;
Wendy Mays, Vermont Association of Broad-
casters; Doug Easter, Virginia Association of
Broadcasters; Keith Shipman, Washington
State Association of Broadcasters; Michele
Crist, West Virginia Broadcasters Associa-
tion; Michelle Vetterkind, Wisconsin Broad-
casters Association; Laura Grott, Wyoming
Association of Broadcasters.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 583 is
a bipartisan, commonsense advance in
the laws that support our first respond-
ers and protect our communities. I
urge my colleagues to support this leg-
islation so it can be taken up in the
Senate and signed into law.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I also rise in support of
H.R. 583, the Preventing Illegal Radio
Abuse Through Enforcement Act, the
PIRATE Act, introduced by my friends
Mr. TONKO and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. TONKO and
Mr. BILIRAKIS for their bipartisan ef-
forts to combat illegal pirate radio op-
erations.
This bill gives the Federal Commu-
nications Commission, along with
State and local law enforcement, more
tools to go after pirate radio operators.
Without the ability to effectively go
after illegal transmitters, the FCC and
other entities cannot protect the over
240 million Americans who rely on
radio broadcasting for vital news and
entertainment.
Furthermore, stopping bad actors
from pirating our airwaves improves
public safety by preventing unlawful
broadcasts from interfering with first
responders’ lifesaving communications
and public safety officials’ trans-
mission of critical information in an
emergency.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of the PI-
RATE Act, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further Members who choose to speak.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. WALBERG).
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 583, the PI-
RATE Act, led by Chairman TONKO and
Representative BILIRAKIS.
The bipartisan bill takes an impor-
tant step to protect the vital public
safety announcements, news, and edu-
cational benefits local broadcasters
serve to their communities.
When illegal pirate radio operators
interfere with important public safety
communications, it can be detrimental
to the public. These illegal pirate oper-
ators also interfere with critical avia-
tion frequencies, potentially putting
lives at risk.
Legitimate, licensed broadcasters
who provide the foundation of our Na-
tion’s Emergency Alert System must
be protected from this type of harmful
interference.
H.R. 583 would give the FCC stronger
tools to continue their enforcement
sweeps and fine violators in order to
better protect Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
on the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee for their leadership on this bi-
partisan legislation, and I urge its pas-
sage today.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, again, for
all the reasons that I have stated here
today on the PIRATE Act, I believe
that this bill is essential to pass today,
and I ask the House to pass H.R. 583.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, to close, I
believe that this measure, H.R. 583,
moves us forward in a way that better
protects public health and safety. It
has the endorsement of many in the
field, including 50 State broadcast asso-
ciations.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage our col-
leagues to support H.R. 583, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of H.R. 583, the Preventing Illegal
Radio Abuse Through Enforcement (PIRATE)
Act, introduced by Reps. PAUL TONKO and
GUS BILIRAKIS. I want to thank Rep. CHRIS
COLLINS of New York and former Rep. Leon-
ard Lance of New Jersey for leading on this
last Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I’ve been around radio for
most of my life. From working as a teenage
janitor at my dad’s radio station to spending
more than 20 years as a radio station owner
myself; in fact, I’m still a licensed amateur
radio operator today. But you don’t need that
much experience to understand that protecting
our public airwaves from illegal pirate radio in-
terference is important for consumers and
broadcasters alike.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.005 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2052 February 25, 2019
The PIRATE Act gives the FCC additional
tools to address the growing pirate radio prob-
lem and increases the penalties for bad ac-
tors. These illegal broadcasts deprive Ameri-
cans of important programming provided by le-
gitimate broadcast license-holders serving the
public interest. And they can disrupt important
public safety communications, including our
nation’s Emergency Alert System and critical
aviation frequencies. In many cases, these pi-
rate radio stations broadcast vile and vulgar
content, which also harms consumers. By pre-
venting illegal pirate radio operations, con-
sumers are protected, and airwaves are kept
free for legitimate broadcasts and public safety
announcements.
Last Congress, this House passed the PI-
RATE Act by voice vote. I’d like to thank our
former colleague Leonard Lance, who first au-
thored this legislation last Congress, and my
colleagues Mr. TONKO and Mr. BILIRAKIS for
bringing this important bill to strengthen our
public safety communications back to the
House floor today. I urge its quick passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
TONKO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 583.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
POISON CENTER NETWORK
ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 501) to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize and enhance
the poison center national toll-free
number, national media campaign, and
grant program, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 501
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Poison Cen-
ter Network Enhancement Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF POISON CONTROL
CENTERS NATIONAL TOLL-FREE
NUMBER.
Section 1271 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300d–71) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘SEC. 1271. ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE
OF THE NATIONAL TOLL-FREE NUM-
BER AND ENHANCED COMMUNICA-
TIONS CAPABILITIES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pro-
vide coordination and assistance to poison
control centers for—
‘‘(1) the development, establishment, im-
plementation, and maintenance of a nation-
wide toll-free phone number; and
‘‘(2) the enhancement of communications
capabilities, which may include text capa-
bilities.
‘‘(b) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary may
consult with nationally recognized profes-
sional organizations in the field of poison
control to determine the best and most effec-
tive means of achieving the goals described
in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
‘‘(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—In assisting
with public health emergencies, responses, or
preparedness, nothing in this section shall be
construed to restrict the work of poison con-
trol centers or the use of their resources by
the Secretary or other governmental agen-
cies.
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $700,000 for each of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 3. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONWIDE PUB-
LIC AWARENESS CAMPAIGN TO PRO-
MOTE POISON CONTROL CENTER
UTILIZATION.
Section 1272 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300d–72) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘SEC. 1272. NATIONWIDE PUBLIC AWARENESS
CAMPAIGN TO PROMOTE POISON
CONTROL CENTER UTILIZATION
AND THEIR PUBLIC HEALTH EMER-
GENCY RESPONSE CAPABILITIES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) carry out, and expand upon, a national
public awareness campaign to educate the
public and health care providers about—
‘‘(A) poisoning, toxic exposure, and drug
misuse prevention; and
‘‘(B) the availability of poison control cen-
ter resources in local communities; and
‘‘(2) as part of such campaign, highlight
the nationwide toll-free number and en-
hanced communications capabilities sup-
ported under section 1271.
‘‘(b) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out and
expanding upon the national campaign under
subsection (a), the Secretary may consult
with nationally recognized professional orga-
nizations in the field of poison control re-
sponse for the purpose of determining the
best and most effective methods for achiev-
ing public awareness.
‘‘(c) CONTRACT WITH ENTITY.—The Sec-
retary may carry out subsection (a) by en-
tering into contracts with one or more pub-
lic or private entities, including nationally
recognized professional organizations in the
field of poison control and national media
firms, for the development and implementa-
tion of the awareness campaign under sub-
section (a), which may include—
‘‘(1) the development and distribution of
poisoning and toxic exposure prevention, poi-
son control center, and public health emer-
gency awareness and response materials;
‘‘(2) television, radio, internet, and news-
paper public service announcements; and
‘‘(3) other means and activities to provide
for public and professional awareness and
education.
‘‘(d) EVALUATION.—The Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) establish baseline measures and bench-
marks to quantitatively evaluate the impact
of the nationwide public awareness campaign
carried out under this section; and
‘‘(2) on a biennial basis, prepare and submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress
an evaluation of the nationwide public
awareness campaign.
‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section, $800,000 for each of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 4. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE POISON CON-
TROL CENTER GRANT PROGRAM.
Section 1273 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300d–73) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘SEC. 1273. MAINTENANCE OF THE POISON CON-
TROL CENTER GRANT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION OF PROGRAM.—The
Secretary shall award grants to poison con-
trol centers accredited under subsection (c)
(or granted a waiver under subsection (d))
and nationally recognized professional orga-
nizations in the field of poison control for
the purposes of—
‘‘(1) preventing, and providing treatment
recommendations for, poisonings and toxic
exposures including opioid and drug misuse;
‘‘(2) assisting with public health emer-
gencies, responses, and preparedness; and
‘‘(3) complying with the operational re-
quirements needed to sustain the accredita-
tion of the center under subsection (c).
‘‘(b) ADDITIONAL USES OF FUNDS.—In addi-
tion to the purposes described in subsection
(a), a poison center or professional organiza-
tion awarded a grant under such subsection
may also use amounts received under such
grant—
‘‘(1) to research, establish, implement, and
evaluate best practices in the United States
for poisoning prevention, poison control cen-
ter outreach, opioid and drug misuse infor-
mation and response, and public health
emergency, response, and preparedness pro-
grams;
‘‘(2) to research, develop, implement, re-
vise, and communicate standard patient
management guidelines for commonly en-
countered toxic exposures;
‘‘(3) to improve national toxic exposure
and opioid misuse surveillance by enhancing
cooperative activities between poison con-
trol centers in the United States and the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
and other governmental agencies;
‘‘(4) to research, improve, and enhance the
communications and response capability and
capacity of the Nation’s network of poison
control centers to facilitate increased access
to the centers through the integration and
modernization of the current poison control
centers communications and data system,
including enhancing the network’s teleph-
ony, internet, data, and social networking
technologies;
‘‘(5) to develop, support, and enhance tech-
nology and capabilities of nationally recog-
nized professional organizations in the field
of poison control to collect national poi-
soning, toxic occurrence, and related public
health data;
‘‘(6) to develop initiatives to foster the en-
hanced public health utilization of national
poison data collected by such organizations;
‘‘(7) to support and expand the toxicologic
expertise within poison control centers; and
‘‘(8) to improve the capacity of poison con-
trol centers to answer high volumes of con-
tacts and internet communications, and to
sustain and enhance the poison control cen-
ter’s network capability to respond during
times of national crisis or other public
health emergencies.
‘‘(c) ACCREDITATION.—Except as provided in
subsection (d), the Secretary may award a
grant to a poison control center under sub-
section (a) only if—
‘‘(1) the center has been accredited by a na-
tionally recognized professional organization
in the field of poison control, and the Sec-
retary has approved the organization as hav-
ing in effect standards for accreditation that
reasonably provide for the protection of the
public health with respect to poisoning; or
‘‘(2) the center has been accredited by a
State government, and the Secretary has ap-
proved the State government as having in ef-
fect standards for accreditation that reason-
ably provide for the protection of the public
health with respect to poisoning.
‘‘(d) WAIVER OF ACCREDITATION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may grant
a waiver of the accreditation requirements of
subsection (c) with respect to a nonaccred-
ited poison control center that applies for a
grant under this section if such center can
reasonably demonstrate that the center will
obtain such an accreditation within a rea-
sonable period of time as determined appro-
priate by the Secretary.
‘‘(2) RENEWAL.—The Secretary may renew
a waiver under paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not,
after the date of enactment of the Poison
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.004 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2053
February 25, 2019
Control Network Enhancement Act of 2019,
grant to a poison control center waivers or
renewals that total more than 5 years.
‘‘(e) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—
Amounts made available to a poison control
center under this section shall be used to
supplement and not supplant other Federal,
State, or local funds provided for such cen-
ter.
‘‘(f) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—A poison
control center, in utilizing the proceeds of a
grant under this section, shall maintain the
annual recurring expenditures of the center
for its activities at a level that is not less
than 80 percent of the average level of such
recurring expenditures maintained by the
center for the preceding 3 fiscal years for
which a grant is received.
‘‘(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section, $28,600,000 for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024. The Secretary
may utilize an amount not to exceed 6 per-
cent of the amount appropriated pursuant to
the preceding sentence for each fiscal year
for coordination, dissemination, technical
assistance, program evaluation, data activi-
ties, and other program administration func-
tions, which are determined by the Secretary
to be appropriate for carrying out the pro-
gram under this section.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. LATTA) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 501.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 501, the Poison Center Network
Enhancement Act.
This bill, which I have coauthored
with the gentlewoman from Indiana,
Congresswoman SUSAN BROOKS, reau-
thorizes for an additional 5 years the
national network of poison control cen-
ters, known as PCCs, which play a crit-
ical role in the fight to end the opioid
crisis.
Our country’s 55 poison centers are
staffed by trained toxicologists, phar-
macists, physicians, and nurses who
are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week, 365 days a year to provide real-
time lifesaving assistance via a na-
tional toll-free number, which is 1–800–
222–1222. Some 330 million people are
served by these critical centers, while
handling 2.6 million cases.
In 2017, someone called a poison cen-
ter roughly every 12 seconds in our
country. More than 90 percent of those
calls were due to poison exposure in
someone’s home, and more than half of
all cases involved children under the
age of 12. That is why speedy access to
poison centers is such an invaluable re-
source, especially for parents.
Poison centers also save hundreds of
millions in Federal dollars by helping
to avoid the unnecessary use of med-
ical services and shortening the length
of time a person spends in the hospital,
if hospitalization due to poisoning is
necessary.
It is clear that these centers are a
smart public health investment, but
they are also an integral part of our re-
sponse to the opioid epidemic.
Since 2011, poison centers handled
nearly 200 cases per day involving
opioid misuse. Data from poison cen-
ters helped to detect trends in the epi-
demic, and experts helped educate
Americans about the crisis in ways
that could potentially save the lives of
their loved ones.
The Upstate New York Poison Cen-
ter, for instance, used the New York
State Fair to educate New Yorkers
about proper use of naloxone, the over-
dose reversal drug. This bill would
make sure that activities like this can
continue.
Mr. Speaker, I had the privilege of
coauthoring the last poison center re-
authorization signed into law in 2014,
and I am pleased to have worked on
this important bill.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman
BROOKS for partnering with me on this
legislation, as well as Congresswoman
DEGETTE and Congresswoman HERRERA
BEUTLER for being original cosponsors.
Let me also thank Chairman PALLONE
and Ranking Member WALDEN for their
assistance in bringing this bill to the
floor today.
As I mentioned earlier, in West-
chester County, New York, much of
which I represent, 124 people died due
to opioids in 2016. In the Bronx, part of
which I also represent, more New York-
ers died of overdoses than in any other
borough in New York City.
We must do more to end this epi-
demic, and I am pleased to see this leg-
islation moving forward as part of that
effort.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support this bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express
my strong support of H.R. 501, the Poi-
son Center Network Enhancement Act
of 2019, introduced by Representatives
BROOKS and ENGEL.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my Committee
on Energy and Commerce colleagues
for their bipartisan work on this im-
portant initiative.
This legislation will reauthorize the
national toll-free number, public
awareness campaign, and grant pro-
gram that supports the Nation’s 55 poi-
son centers.
These centers are available 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week to provide free and
confidential assistance with emer-
gencies and other information to help
prevent poisoning. As of January 2019,
poison control centers have managed
over 4,000 opioid exposure cases alone.
At a time when our Nation is still
fighting to overcome an opioid crisis,
these centers are on the front lines,
helping to save individuals who over-
dose. Furthermore, these centers col-
lect real-time data, enhancing public
health surveillance and aiding in the
detection of public health emergencies.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support
of H.R. 501, the Poison Center Network En-
hancement Act.
This important bill, introduced by Reps.
ELIOT ENGEL, SUSAN BROOKS, JAIME HERRERA
BEUTLER, and DIANA DEGETTE, reauthorizes
the national network of Poison Control Cen-
ters.
The nation’s network of poison control cen-
ters offers free, confidential, and expert med-
ical advice and often serves as the primary re-
source for poisoning information. These cen-
ters help reduce Emergency Room visits
through in-home treatment and their lifesaving
assistance helps prevent unnecessary poi-
soning deaths and injuries.
Poison control centers are also essential to
combating the opioid crisis because not only
are these centers often the first resource peo-
ple seek after an opioid overdose occurs, but
they also collect real time data to alert im-
pacted communities about opioid abuse and
misuse.
Last Congress, Rep. BROOKS led similar leg-
islation, which passed this House by voice
vote and was then included in the House-
passed version of the SUPPORT for Patients
and Communities Act, our broad legislative
package to combat the opioid crisis. Unfortu-
nately, after negotiations with the Senate, this
language was not included in the final pack-
age that was signed into law.
Therefore, I’d like to commend Rep. ENGEL
and Rep. BROOKS for their continued leader-
ship on this bipartisan legislation in helping to
bring this bill to the floor today, and I urge
passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 501.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1645
STRENGTHENING THE HEALTH
CARE FRAUD PREVENTION TASK
FORCE ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 525) to amend title XI of the So-
cial Security Act to direct the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services
to establish a public-private partner-
ship for purposes of identifying health
care waste, fraud, and abuse.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 525
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Strength-
ening the Health Care Fraud Prevention
Task Force Act of 2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.003 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2054 February 25, 2019
SEC. 2. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP FOR
HEALTH CARE WASTE, FRAUD, AND
ABUSE DETECTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1128C(a) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a–7c(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(6) PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP FOR
WASTE, FRAUD, AND ABUSE DETECTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Under the program de-
scribed in paragraph (1), there is established
a public-private partnership (in this para-
graph referred to as the ‘partnership’) of
health plans, Federal and State agencies, law
enforcement agencies, health care anti-fraud
organizations, and any other entity deter-
mined appropriate by the Secretary (in this
paragraph referred to as ‘partners’) for pur-
poses of detecting and preventing health care
waste, fraud, and abuse.
‘‘(B) CONTRACT WITH TRUSTED THIRD
PARTY.—In carrying out the partnership, the
Secretary shall enter into a contract with a
trusted third party for purposes of carrying
out the duties of the partnership described in
subparagraph (C).
‘‘(C) DUTIES OF PARTNERSHIP.—The partner-
ship shall—
‘‘(i) provide technical and operational sup-
port to facilitate data sharing between part-
ners in the partnership;
‘‘(ii) analyze data so shared to identify
fraudulent and aberrant billing patterns;
‘‘(iii) conduct aggregate analyses of health
care data so shared across Federal, State,
and private health plans for purposes of de-
tecting fraud, waste, and abuse schemes;
‘‘(iv) identify outlier trends and potential
vulnerabilities of partners in the partnership
with respect to such schemes;
‘‘(v) refer specific cases of potential unlaw-
ful conduct to appropriate governmental en-
tities;
‘‘(vi) convene, not less than annually,
meetings with partners in the partnership
for purposes of providing updates on the
partnership’s work and facilitating informa-
tion sharing between the partners;
‘‘(vii) enter into data sharing and data use
agreements with partners in the partnership
in such a manner so as to ensure the partner-
ship has access to data necessary to identify
waste, fraud, and abuse while maintaining
the confidentiality and integrity of such
data;
‘‘(viii) provide partners in the partnership
with plan-specific, confidential feedback on
any aberrant billing patterns or potential
fraud identified by the partnership with re-
spect to such partner;
‘‘(ix) establish a process by which entities
described in subparagraph (A) may enter the
partnership and requirements such entities
must meet to enter the partnership;
‘‘(x) provide appropriate training, out-
reach, and education to partners based on
the results of data analyses described in
clauses (ii) and (iii); and
‘‘(xi) perform such other duties as the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(D) SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER TREATMENT
ANALYSIS.—Not later than 2 years after the
date of the enactment of the Strengthening
the Health Care Fraud Prevention Task
Force Act of 2019, the trusted third party
with a contract in effect under subparagraph
(B) shall perform an analysis of aberrant or
fraudulent billing patterns and trends with
respect to providers and suppliers of sub-
stance use disorder treatments from data
shared with the partnership.
‘‘(E) EXECUTIVE BOARD.—
‘‘(i) EXECUTIVE BOARD COMPOSITION.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—There shall be an execu-
tive board of the partnership comprised of
representatives of the Federal Government
and representatives of the private sector se-
lected by the Secretary.
‘‘(II) CHAIRS.—The executive board shall be
co-chaired by one Federal Government offi-
cial and one representative from the private
sector.
‘‘(ii) MEETINGS.—The executive board of
the partnership shall meet at least once per
year.
‘‘(iii) EXECUTIVE BOARD DUTIES.—The duties
of the executive board shall include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(I) Providing strategic direction for the
partnership, including membership criteria
and a mission statement.
‘‘(II) Communicating with the leadership
of the Department of Health and Human
Services and the Department of Justice and
the various private health sector associa-
tions.
‘‘(F) REPORTS.—Not later than September
30, 2021, and every 2 years thereafter, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress and
make available on the public website of the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services a
report containing—
‘‘(i) a review of activities conducted by the
partnership over the 2-year period ending on
the date of the submission of such report, in-
cluding any progress to any objectives estab-
lished by the partnership;
‘‘(ii) any savings voluntarily reported by
health plans participating in the partnership
attributable to the partnership during such
period;
‘‘(iii) any savings to the Federal Govern-
ment attributable to the partnership during
such period;
‘‘(iv) any other outcomes attributable to
the partnership, as determined by the Sec-
retary, during such period; and
‘‘(v) a strategic plan for the 2-year period
beginning on the day after the date of the
submission of such report, including a de-
scription of any emerging fraud and abuse
schemes, trends, or practices that the part-
nership intends to study during such period.
‘‘(G) FUNDING.—The partnership shall be
funded by amounts otherwise made available
to the Secretary for carrying out the pro-
gram described in paragraph (1).
‘‘(H) TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.—To the ex-
tent consistent with this subsection, all
functions, personnel, assets, liabilities, and
administrative actions applicable on the
date before the date of the enactment of this
paragraph to the National Fraud Prevention
Partnership established on September 17,
2012, by charter of the Secretary shall be
transferred to the partnership established
under subparagraph (A) as of the date of the
enactment of this paragraph.
‘‘(I) NONAPPLICABILITY OF FACA.—The pro-
visions of the Federal Advisory Committee
Act shall not apply to the partnership estab-
lished by subparagraph (A).
‘‘(J) IMPLEMENTATION.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the Secretary
may implement the partnership established
by subparagraph (A) by program instruction
or otherwise.
‘‘(K) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this
paragraph, the term ‘trusted third party’
means an entity that—
‘‘(i) demonstrates the capability to carry
out the duties of the partnership described in
subparagraph (C);
‘‘(ii) complies with such conflict of interest
standards determined appropriate by the
Secretary; and
‘‘(iii) meets such other requirements as the
Secretary may prescribe.’’.
(b) POTENTIAL EXPANSION OF PUBLIC-PRI-
VATE PARTNERSHIP ANALYSES.—Not later
than 2 years after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall conduct a study and
submit to Congress a report on the feasi-
bility of the partnership (as described in sec-
tion 1128C(a)(6) of the Social Security Act, as
added by subsection (a)) establishing a sys-
tem to conduct real-time data analysis to
proactively identify ongoing as well as emer-
gent fraud trends for the entities partici-
pating in the partnership and provide such
entities with real-time feedback on poten-
tially fraudulent claims. Such report shall
include the estimated cost of and any poten-
tial barriers to the partnership establishing
such a system.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. LATTA) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 525.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 525, the Strengthening the
Health Care Fraud Prevention Task
Force Act of 2019. This bipartisan bill
would authorize the Healthcare Fraud
Prevention Partnership, and improve
and expand the task force’s ability to
fight waste, fraud, and abuse through-
out our healthcare system.
The Healthcare Fraud Prevention
Partnership is a public-private partner-
ship between the Department of Health
and Human Services, insurance compa-
nies, Federal and State law enforce-
ment agencies, and State healthcare
agencies. The partnership aims to im-
prove the detection and prevention of
healthcare fraud by facilitating the ex-
change of data and information be-
tween the public and private sectors on
fraud trends and successful antifraud
practices.
The legislation we are considering
today would authorize the partnership,
require the partnership to report regu-
larly to Congress, and give the agency
new tools to enhance and expand its ca-
pabilities.
We must continue to work on a bi-
partisan basis to enhance our fraud de-
tection capabilities.
I support this legislation and I urge
my colleagues to continue to work to-
gether to find meaningful solutions to
root out fraud, waste, and abuse in our
healthcare system.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, February 25, 2019.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE,
Chairman, Energy and Commerce Committee,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PALLONE: In recognition of
the desire to expedite consideration of H.R.
525, Strengthening the Health Care Fraud
Prevention Task Force Act of 2019, the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means agrees to waive
formal consideration of the bill as to provi-
sions that fall within the rule X jurisdiction
of the Committee on Ways and Means.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.005 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2055
February 25, 2019
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 525.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, February 25, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman, Ways and Means,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: Thank you for con-
sulting with the Committee on Energy and
Commerce and agreeing to discharge H.R.
525, Strengthening the Health Care Fraud
Prevention Task Force Act of 2019 from fur-
ther consideration, so that the bill may pro-
ceed expeditiously to the House floor.
I agree that your forgoing further action
on this measure does not in any way dimin-
ish or alter the jurisdiction of your com-
mittee or prejudice its jurisdictional prerog-
atives on this measure or similar legislation
in the future. I would support your effort to
seek appointment of an appropriate number
of conferees from your committee to any
House-Senate conference on this legislation.
I will ensure our letters on H.R. 525 are en-
tered into the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work to-
gether as this measure moves through the
legislative process.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE, JR.,
Chairman.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
525, the Strengthening the Health Care
Fraud Prevention Task Force Act of
2019, introduced by the Energy and
Commerce Committee Republican
Leader WALDEN and Chairman PAL-
LONE.
This legislation will codify the
Healthcare Fraud Prevention Partner-
ship, which is currently operated by
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services and is a voluntary public-pri-
vate partnership between the Federal
Government, State agencies, law en-
forcement, private health insurance
plans, and healthcare antifraud asso-
ciations.
The partnership was established by
the Obama administration and the
Trump administration recommended
codifying it, solidifying the bipartisan
nature of revealing and halting scams
that cut across public and private pay-
ers.
H.R. 525 will ensure the continued op-
eration of this important partnership
to detect and prevent healthcare fraud
through public-private information
sharing, streamlining analytical tools
and data, and providing a forum for
government and industry experts to ex-
change successful antifraud practices.
This bill before us today is the prod-
uct of bipartisan cooperation, as well
as engagement with the Department of
Health and Human Services and indus-
try stakeholders.
Originally introduced in the 115th
Congress, this legislation worked its
way through the Committee on Energy
and Commerce in a transparent man-
ner and currently enjoys the support of
the chairmen and republican leaders of
both the Committee of Energy and
Commerce and the Committee on Ways
and Means.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to work together to find
meaningful solutions to root out waste,
fraud, and abuse in our healthcare sys-
tem, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of H.R. 525, the Health Care Fraud
Prevention Task Force Act.
This bipartisan bill—which I introduced with
Chairman FRANK PALLONE, and which is sup-
ported by Ways and Means Chairman RICH-
ARD NEAL and Republican Leader KEVIN
BRADY—is a commonsense, bipartisan bill to
improve the integrity of our nation’s health
care system.
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (CMS) currently operates the Health
Care Fraud Prevention Partnership—a vol-
untary collaboration between the federal gov-
ernment, state agencies, law enforcement, pri-
vate health insurance plans, and anti-fraud as-
sociations. Together, this group works to de-
tect and prevent fraud that threatens to under-
mine our nation’s health care system. This
program was created by the Obama Adminis-
tration, and the Trump Administration has rec-
ommended codifying it into law. The bill before
us today does just that.
Mr. Speaker, last Congress, the House
passed this legislation by voice vote but unfor-
tunately, we were unable to get this bill
through the Senate and to the President’s
desk before the end of the Congress.
In fact, the House Energy and Commerce
Committee had 148 bills pass the House last
Congress, and 93 percent of them received bi-
partisan votes. I’d like to thank Chairman PAL-
LONE for continuing in that bipartisan spirit by
helping to bring this bill back to the floor
today.
I urge passage of H.R. 525.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 525.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
INNOVATORS TO ENTREPRENEURS
ACT OF 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 539) to require the Director of the
National Science Foundation to de-
velop an I-Corps course to support com-
mercialization-ready innovation com-
panies, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 539
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Innovators
to Entrepreneurs Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The National Science Foundation Inno-
vation Corps Program (hereinafter referred
to as ‘‘I-Corps’’), created administratively by
the Foundation in 2011 and statutorily au-
thorized in the American Innovation and
Competitiveness Act, has succeeded in in-
creasing the commercialization of Govern-
ment-funded research.
(2) I-Corps provides valuable entrepre-
neurial education to graduate students,
postdoctoral fellows, and other researchers,
providing formal training for scientists and
engineers to pursue careers in business, an
increasingly common path for advanced de-
gree holders.
(3) The I-Corps Teams program is success-
ful in part due to its focus on providing the
specific types of education and mentoring
entrepreneurs need based on the early stage
of their companies, however the program
does not provide similar support to them at
later stages.
(4) The success of I-Corps in the very early
stages of the innovation continuum should
be expanded upon by offering additional en-
trepreneurship training to small businesses
as they advance toward commercialization.
(5) The excellent training made available
to grantees of participating agencies through
the I-Corps Program should be made avail-
able to all Federal grantees as well as other
businesses willing to pay the cost of attend-
ing such training.
(6) The success of the I-Corps Program at
promoting entrepreneurship within research
institutions and encouraging research com-
mercialization has been due in part to the
National Science Foundation’s efforts to
date on building a national network of
science entrepreneurs, including convening
stakeholders, promoting national I-Corps
courses, cataloguing best practices and en-
courage sharing between sites and institu-
tions, and developing a mentor network.
(7) As the I-Corps Program continues to
grow and expand, the National Science Foun-
dation should maintain its focus on net-
working and information sharing to ensure
that innovators across the country can learn
from their peers and remain competitive.
SEC. 3. EXPANDED PARTICIPATION IN I-CORPS.
Section 601(c)(2) of the American Innova-
tion and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C.
1862s–8(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL PARTICIPANTS.—
‘‘(i) ELIGIBILITY.—The Director, in con-
sultation with relevant stakeholders, as de-
termined by the Director, which may include
Federal agencies, I-Corps regional nodes,
universities, and public and private entities
engaged in technology transfer or commer-
cialization of technologies, shall provide an
option for participation in an I-Corps Teams
course by—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.014 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2056 February 25, 2019
‘‘(I) Small Business Innovation Research
Program grantees; and
‘‘(II) other entities, as determined appro-
priate by the Director.
‘‘(ii) COST OF PARTICIPATION.—The cost of
participation by a Small Business Innova-
tion Research Program grantee in such
course may be provided—
‘‘(I) through I-Corps Teams grants;
‘‘(II) through funds awarded to grantees
under the Small Business Innovation Re-
search Program or the Small Business Tech-
nology Transfer Program;
‘‘(III) by the grantor Federal agency of the
grantee using funds set aside for the Small
Business Innovation Research Program
under section 9(f)(1) of the Small Business
Act (15 U.S.C. 638(f)(1));
‘‘(IV) by the grantor Federal agency of the
grantee using funds set aside for the Small
Business Technology Transfer Program
under section 9(n)(1) of the Small Business
Act (15 U.S.C. 638(n)(1)); or
‘‘(V) by the participating teams.’’.
SEC. 4. I-CORPS COURSE FOR COMMERCIALIZA-
TION-READY PARTICIPANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the I-
Corps program described in section 601(c) of
the American Innovation and Competitive-
ness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–8(c)), the Director
shall develop an I-Corps course offered by I-
Corps regional nodes to support commer-
cialization-ready participants. Such course
shall include skills such as attracting inves-
tors, scaling up a company, and building a
brand.
(b) ENGAGEMENT WITH RELEVANT STAKE-
HOLDERS.—In developing the course under
subsection (a), the Director may consult
with the heads of such Federal agencies, uni-
versities, and public and private entities as
the Director determines to be appropriate.
(c) ELIGIBLE PARTICIPANTS.—The course de-
veloped under subsection (a) shall—
(1) support participants that have com-
pleted an I-Corps Teams course;
(2) support participants that have made
the decision to take an innovation to mar-
ket.
SEC. 5. REPORT.
Not later than 2 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Comptroller General
of the United States shall submit to Con-
gress a report containing an evaluation of
the I-Corps program described in section
601(c) of the American Innovation and Com-
petitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–8(c)). Such
evaluation shall include an assessment of the
effects of I-Corps on—
(1) the commercialization of Federally
funded research and development;
(2) the higher education system; and
(3) regional economies and the national
economy.
SEC. 6. FUNDING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Out of amounts otherwise
authorized for the National Science Founda-
tion, there is authorized to be appropriated a
total of $5,000,000 for fiscal years 2020 and
2021 to carry out the activities described in
section 4 and the amendment made by sec-
tion 3.
(b) LIMITATION.—No additional funds are
authorized to be appropriated to carry out
this Act and the amendments made by this
Act, and this Act and such amendments shall
be carried out using amounts otherwise
available for such purpose.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois (Mr. LIPINSKI) and the gentleman
from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on H.R. 539, the
bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to put
before the House today H.R. 539.
The House passed a nearly identical
bill, H.R. 5086, in the 115th Congress
and, unfortunately, that is as far as the
bill got. Hopefully, we can get more
movement on it this time around, get
it through the Senate, and to the
President’s desk for his signature.
Mr. Speaker, the Innovators to En-
trepreneurs Act is a bill I introduced to
spur entrepreneurship and turn Amer-
ican innovation into American jobs.
This bill expands the National Science
Foundation’s highly successful Innova-
tion Corps, or I-Corps program, a pro-
gram I am proud to have championed
since its inception in 2011.
I-Corps teaches scientists and engi-
neers, including many women and
underrepresented minorities, how to
turn their federally-funded laboratory
research into successful products and
services.
The program has educated more than
1,300 teams, representing 271 univer-
sities in 47 States, the District of Co-
lumbia, and Puerto Rico. It has been
linked to almost 650 startup companies
that have raised almost $300 million in
follow-on funding.
In the 114th Congress, I led the effort
that authorized I-Corps and expanded
its reach to other agencies, including
the National Institutes of Health,
NASA, and the Department of Energy.
The Federal Government invests bil-
lions of dollars in research and develop-
ment annually, both at government fa-
cilities, such as national labs, and at
universities and research institutions.
I-Corps is a modest investment that
leads to a higher return on our re-
search spending by significantly in-
creasing rates of commercialization,
economic activity, and job creation.
Our economy is driven by the inge-
nuity of our scientists and engineers,
developing innovations today that be-
come tomorrow’s great products. And
yet, still only a small minority of fed-
erally-funded research with commer-
cial potential ever makes it to the
marketplace. The I-Corps program
helps to change that.
This bill expands I-Corps to meet
some pressing needs.
First, it helps more people partici-
pate in the program. Right now, unless
you are a grantee of NSF or another
agency with an I-Corps program, the
training can be difficult to access. This
bill will give recipients of small busi-
ness grants from any Federal agency
the flexibility to pay for I-Corps with
their grant funds, and will also allow
other entrepreneurs to apply and pay
out-of-pocket to participate.
Second, the bill directs NSF to estab-
lish a new course as part of the I-Corps
program to teach scientist-entre-
preneurs how to start and grow a com-
pany. While the current I-Corps course
does a great job of helping scientists
and engineers determine who their cus-
tomers are and whether their innova-
tion is suitable for commercialization,
it offers only limited guidance on what
to do after a scientist makes the deci-
sion to become an entrepreneur.
Skills like how to write a business
plan, hire a team, and attract invest-
ment are taught in business schools,
but not in Ph.D. programs. NSF recog-
nized this need and has already begun a
pilot program to test curriculum for
this new course. This bill will make
sure the new course is fully developed
and made available around the coun-
try.
Finally, this bill requires a GAO as-
sessment of the I-Corps program, its
first comprehensive, independent eval-
uation since it was created. Although
the program’s success to date speaks
for itself, it is important to continu-
ously improve it by developing metrics
to measure its performance and ensure
that Federal funds are well spent.
This bill has been endorsed by a wide
range of stakeholders, including the
‘‘father of modern entrepreneurship,’’
who developed the curriculum that I-
Corps is based on, Steve Blank; the
former NSF program officer, who
founded the program, Dr. Errol Arkilic;
and several directors of I-Corps Nodes
around the country.
This bill is also endorsed by the In-
formation Technology and Innovation
Foundation, the National Venture Cap-
ital Association, the Association of
American Universities; the Council on
Governmental Relations; and the Asso-
ciation of Public and Land-grant Uni-
versities.
I thank my cosponsors, DANIEL WEB-
STER of Florida, ANTHONY GONZALEZ of
Ohio, Science, Space, and Technology
Committee Chairwoman EDDIE BERNICE
JOHNSON of Texas, and Ranking Mem-
ber FRANK LUCAS of Oklahoma. I also
thank Senators COONS and YOUNG, who
are cosponsors of the Senate com-
panion to this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I believe that helping
our scientists, engineers, and aca-
demics not only advance our knowl-
edge and understanding of the world,
but also create jobs and products that
fuel our economy, is a goal we all can
share.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
539, the Innovators to Entrepreneurs
Act of 2019.
H.R. 539 extends the outreach of the
National Science Foundation’s Innova-
tion Corps program, also known as I-
Corps.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.007 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2057
February 25, 2019
I-Corps trains and prepares scientists
and engineers to take their research
from the lab and turn it into commer-
cial products and services.
Research labs are making break-
throughs in new fields like quantum
computing, artificial intelligence, and
bioengineering. These breakthroughs
will continue to transform our lives
and the world we live in.
But many scientists and engineers
are not trained for commercializing
these discoveries and did not go to
business school or take any business
development classes. I-Corps gives re-
searchers the tools to maximize the
taxpayer investment in basic research
and spur innovation.
H.R. 539 expands the eligible pool for
I-Corps courses and allows a portion of
Federal small business grants be used
to cover I-Corps training expenses.
The bill also allows any private cit-
izen to apply to participate and pay
out-of-pocket.
Finally, H.R. 539 authorizes a new I-
Corps boot-camp course that teaches
valuable skills, like structuring a com-
pany, attracting investors, and hiring
staff.
In my district, Oklahoma State Uni-
versity has a successful support system
for business startups, both on and off
campus. I-Corps is a key part of that
system, helping students and faculty
learn how to commercialize their ideas
and build a business.
b 1700
H.R. 539 will help programs like the
one at OSU grow and become self-sus-
taining.
I want to thank Representative DAN
LIPINSKI and Representative DAN WEB-
STER for their work on this legislation.
I also want to thank my friend and our
new chairwoman of the Science, Space,
and Technology Committee, EDDIE
BERNICE JOHNSON, for her work in ad-
vancing this bipartisan bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. WEBSTER).
Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the ranking member for
yielding me time.
I rise today to support and ask my
House colleagues to pass H.R. 539, the
Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act.
I would like to issue a special thanks
to my friend DAN LIPINSKI, who intro-
duced this legislation, and he continues
to serve as a champion for the time-
proven I-Corps program.
The Innovation Core program was
created by the National Science Foun-
dation in 2011 to teach scientists and
engineers how to turn their laboratory
innovations into successful commercial
products and services. I know engineers
are lacking in that area. I am one. I
think I invented, before I was 21 years
old, about three or four, maybe five,
things which were really awesome; but
nobody bought them except me, and it
wasn’t good.
So this program assists scientists
and engineers in the development of
their academic research and equips
them to bring research into a private
market where jobs can be created and
money can be won through that. We
witnessed the wonderful success of this
program in my home State of Florida,
the University of Central Florida.
H.R. 539 expands the I-Corps program
to create a new course in commercial-
ready companies. Individuals who have
completed an existing I-Corps course
would be eligible for this new course
which will help them create, market,
and, eventually, expand their private-
sector company.
This bill breaks down the barriers ex-
perienced by current scientists when
attempting to bring their product to
market. Through marketing, hiring,
organizing, and attracting investors,
these participants can have a better
shot at not only success, but also in-
creasing, dramatically, their business.
Additionally, H.R. 539 expands the
number of groups eligible to apply to
the I-Corps program and offers new op-
tions on how to initially pay for the
course.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman an additional 30 seconds.
Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, in closing, I want to thank Mr.
LIPINSKI and the House Science, Space,
and Technology Committee for their
work on this bill, and I encourage all
my House colleagues to join together
to pass this commonsense piece of leg-
islation.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. GONZALEZ).
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise in support of H.R. 539, the
Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of
2019.
I want to thank Mr. LIPINSKI, Chair-
woman JOHNSON, Ranking Member
LUCAS, and Mr. WEBSTER for all the
hard work they have put into this im-
portant legislation.
Entrepreneurship is hard; it is risky;
it is the road less traveled; it is an all-
encompassing journey that tests every
ounce of strength and skill that those
bold enough to pursue it have to offer;
and its successful practice is essential
to the future prosperity of our Nation.
The bill we are considering today
takes the breakthrough lessons of cus-
tomer development first codified by
Steve Blank, whose teachings are
engrained in the conscience of many
business school students—but less of
our Ph.D. students—and forms the
basis of the NSF I-Corps program, a
program that has already proven its
worth at turning breakthrough sci-
entific research into successful com-
mercial enterprise.
Since this program was created in
2011, more than 600 startups have been
formed through the various I-Corps
sites, including in my home State of
Ohio at the University of Akron, The
Ohio State University, and the Univer-
sity of Toledo.
As just one example, University of
Akron I-Corps startup Fontus Blue pro-
vides decisionmaking software that
helps water treatment plants to
produce consistently excellent drink-
ing water. The software is used by
plants in 24 cities across the U.S., Can-
ada, and Brazil.
The bill before us today expands upon
the success of the current program by
opening up access to small business in-
novation research grantees and also
private individuals. Additionally, this
bill allows small business innovation
research grants and the small business
technology transfer grants to be used
to access I-Corps training.
Finally, this bill would require I-
Corps to develop a course for commer-
cialization-ready teams to help them
learn the skills needed to attract inves-
tors, build a brand, and scale a busi-
ness.
As we confront the economic chal-
lenges of the 21st century, it will be
our innovators and entrepreneurs who
will create solutions to these seem-
ingly intractable problems by chan-
neling the entrepreneurial spirit and
force of will that has driven our coun-
try to its greatest economic heights.
The Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act
safeguards our economy by empow-
ering future generations of entre-
preneurs in all corners of our country
to turn their wildest dreams into our
collective achievements.
Mr. Speaker, as a cosponsor of this
bill, I encourage my colleagues to sup-
port this legislation.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from Illinois for his dedi-
cated and diligent work over this dec-
ade on this subject matter. I think we
will all be better off for it. I know
those folks who utilize the program
and will have greater opportunities to
utilize the program will benefit all of
us as a society.
Mr. Speaker, I have no further re-
quests for time, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to again thank
full committee Chairwoman EDDIE
BERNICE JOHNSON for cosponsoring. I
want to thank Ranking Member LUCAS,
Mr. GONZALEZ, and Mr. WEBSTER for co-
sponsoring—Mr. WEBSTER as the lead
Republican cosponsor on this bill now
and in the previous Congress.
Mr. WEBSTER talked about being an
engineer. I was an engineer and then an
academic; although, I wasn’t an aca-
demic as an engineer. I was a political
scientist. But I understand that a lot of
scientists, engineers, political sci-
entists have a lot of great ideas, a lot
of great research.
We as taxpayers put a lot of money
into this research. There are a lot of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.015 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2058 February 25, 2019
great ideas that come out of it, the
possibility for great innovations.
I will always remember when I first
met with Steve Blank and saw him
teaching the course that was the basis
for I-Corps out of Stanford University.
I thought this made complete sense to
me, to be able to teach scientists and
engineers, teach them how to be entre-
preneurs, teach them how to develop
ideas into new products, new services,
and, hopefully, new American jobs.
The I-Corps program has been one of
the most successful programs that I
have seen during my time in Wash-
ington, D.C. This bill will help to ad-
vance that, and in doing so, help ad-
vance American innovation. I think
that is a goal that we can all embrace.
So I ask my colleagues to support
this bill, and, hopefully, we will work
on it and get it through the Senate and
to the President’s desk, because I think
this will be a great victory for our
country.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
support H.R. 539, the Innovators to Entre-
preneurs Act of 2019. I thank Mr. LIPINSKI for
his leadership on this bipartisan legislation and
look forward to working with him to see it
through to the President’s desk.
Each dollar the U.S. invests in research
grants at our universities is a dollar toward the
birth of potentially game-changing discoveries
and innovation. Innovation is the lifeblood of
our economy. The job creation and economic
security gains created by scientific advances
can only be enjoyed if we fully support the in-
novation ecosystem from discovery to com-
mercialization. Finding ways to maximize the
benefits of federally funded research is critical
to U.S. competitiveness in the global market.
H.R. 539 does just that. This bill creates a
link between two of our most important pro-
grams that focus on creating a sustainable
path from laboratory to market for valuable
scientific research. This bill expands participa-
tion in the Innovation Corps Program to Small
Business Innovation Program grantees. Start-
ed at the National Science Foundation, the In-
novation Corps program, or I-Corps, helps
prepare scientists and engineers to think be-
yond the university lab and gives them the
skills to identify products with commercial po-
tential and to be successful entrepreneurs.
The Small Business Innovation Program and
Small Business Technology Transfer Program,
known as SBIR and STTR, are valuable pro-
grams that provide competitive research and
development grants and contracts to innova-
tive small businesses.
H.R. 539 also seeks make available special-
ized I-Corps courses in all aspects of pre-
paring a product to go to market. This is a
vital component which can help identify market
failures and premature business formation.
Unfortunately, too many innovative ideas do
not make it to the commercialization phase.
This bill will help increase those odds.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 539.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LIPIN-
SKI) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 539.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
SUPPORTING VETERANS IN STEM
CAREERS ACT
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 425) to promote veteran involve-
ment in STEM education, computer
science, and scientific research, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 425
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supporting
Veterans in STEM Careers Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the National Science Founda-
tion.
(2) FOUNDATION.—The term ‘‘Foundation’’
means the National Science Foundation.
(3) STEM.—The term ‘‘STEM’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 2 of the
America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of
2010 (42 U.S.C. 6621 note).
(4) VETERAN.—The term ‘‘veteran’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.
SEC. 3. SUPPORTING VETERANS IN STEM EDU-
CATION AND COMPUTER SCIENCE.
(a) SUPPORTING VETERAN INVOLVEMENT IN
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND STEM EDU-
CATION.—The Director shall, through the re-
search and education activities of the Foun-
dation, encourage veterans to study and pur-
sue careers in STEM and computer science,
in coordination with other Federal agencies
that serve veterans.
(b) VETERAN OUTREACH PLAN.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Director shall submit to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a plan for how
the Foundation can enhance its outreach ef-
forts to veterans. Such plan shall—
(1) report on the Foundation’s existing out-
reach activities;
(2) identify the best method for the Foun-
dation to leverage existing authorities and
programs to facilitate and support veterans
in STEM careers and studies, including
teaching programs; and
(3) include options for how the Foundation
could track veteran participation in research
and education programs of the Foundation,
and describe any barriers to collecting such
information.
(c) NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD INDICATORS
REPORT.—The National Science Board shall
provide in its annual report on indicators of
the state of science and engineering in the
United States any available and relevant
data on veterans in science and engineering
careers or education programs.
(d) ROBERT NOYCE TEACHER SCHOLARSHIP
PROGRAM UPDATE.—Section 10 of the Na-
tional Science Foundation Authorization
Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 1862n–1) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(5)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) higher education programs that serve
or support veterans.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(2)(F)—
(A) by striking ‘‘and students’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘, students’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘, and veterans’’ before
the period at the end;
(3) in subsection (c)(2), by inserting ‘‘and
veterans’’ before the period at the end; and
(4) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ‘‘and
veterans’’ before the period at the end.
(e) NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION TEACH-
ING FELLOWSHIPS AND MASTER TEACHING FEL-
LOWSHIPS UPDATE.—Section 10A(d) of the Na-
tional Science Foundation Authorization
Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 1862n–1a(d)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (3)(F)—
(A) by striking ‘‘and individuals’’ and in-
serting ‘‘, individuals’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘, and veterans’’ before
the period at the end; and
(2) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting ‘‘and
veterans’’ before the period at the end.
(f) NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION COM-
PUTER AND NETWORK SECURITY CAPACITY
BUILDING GRANTS UPDATE.—Section 5(a) of
the Cyber Security Research and Develop-
ment Act (15 U.S.C. 7404(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and stu-
dents who are veterans’’ after ‘‘these fields’’;
and
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as
subparagraph (K); and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the
following:
‘‘(J) creating opportunities for veterans to
transition to careers in computer and net-
work security; and’’.
(g) GRADUATE TRAINEESHIPS IN COMPUTER
AND NETWORK SECURITY RESEARCH UPDATE.—
Section 5(c)(6)(C) of the Cyber Security Re-
search and Development Act (15 U.S.C.
7404(c)(6)(C)) is amended by inserting ‘‘or
veterans’’ after ‘‘disciplines’’.
(h) VETERANS AND MILITARY FAMILIES
STEM EDUCATION INTERAGENCY WORKING
GROUP.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office
of Science and Technology Policy shall es-
tablish an interagency working group to co-
ordinate Federal programs and policies for
transitioning and training veterans and mili-
tary spouses for STEM careers.
(2) DUTIES OF INTERAGENCY WORKING
GROUP.—The interagency working group es-
tablished under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) coordinate any Federal agency STEM
outreach activities and programs for vet-
erans and military spouses; and
(B) develop and facilitate the implementa-
tion by participating agencies of a strategic
plan, which shall—
(i) specify and prioritize short- and long-
term objectives;
(ii) specify the common metrics that will
be used by Federal agencies to assess
progress toward achieving such objectives;
(iii) identify barriers veterans face in reen-
tering the workforce, including a lack of for-
mal STEM education, career guidance, and
the process of transferring military credits
and skills to college credits;
(iv) identify barriers military spouses face
in establishing careers in STEM fields;
(v) describe the approaches that each par-
ticipating agency will take to address ad-
ministratively the barriers described in
clauses (iii) and (iv); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.017 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2059
February 25, 2019
(vi) identify any barriers that require Fed-
eral or State legislative or regulatory
changes in order to be addressed.
(3) DUTIES OF OSTP.—The Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy
shall encourage and monitor the efforts of
the Federal agencies participating in the
interagency working group to ensure that
the strategic plan required under paragraph
(2)(B) is developed and executed effectively
and that the objectives of such strategic plan
are met.
(4) REPORT.—The Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy shall—
(A) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, submit to Congress
the strategic plan required under paragraph
(2)(B); and
(B) include in the annual report required
by section 101(d) of the America COMPETES
Reauthorization Act a description of any
progress made in carrying out the activities
described in paragraph (2)(B) of this sub-
section.
(5) SUNSET.—The interagency working
group established under paragraph (1) shall
terminate on the date that is 5 years after
the date that it is established.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois (Mr. LIPINSKI) and the gentleman
from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on H.R. 425, the bill
now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
425, the Supporting Veterans in STEM
Careers Act.
I want to thank Mr. DUNN and Mr.
LAMB for introducing this important
legislation.
Now, more than ever, U.S. global
competitiveness depends on our ability
to grow and sustain a STEM-capable
workforce poised to meet the needs of
the private sector. With an economy
that is rapidly evolving and increas-
ingly reliant on big data automation
and advanced technologies, the work-
force is struggling to keep up.
Although STEM careers offer good
pay and job security, companies across
all sectors report having difficulty re-
cruiting workers with the skills that
they need.
The good news is veterans and
transitioning servicemembers rep-
resent a group of highly trained indi-
viduals with STEM knowledge base and
skill sets employers need. The question
is how to get more veterans to produce
STEM degrees and join the STEM
workforce.
H.R. 425 addresses this question by
supporting research to identify and
lower barriers for veterans
transitioning from military to civilian
work environments. The bill directs
the National Science Foundation to de-
velop a comprehensive plan for out-
reach to veterans with the goal of in-
creasing veteran participation in the
agency STEM education and research
programs.
It also requires NSF, in its biennial
Science and Engineering Indicators re-
port, to publish available data on vet-
erans in STEM studies and careers.
Further, the bill adds veterans as a
target demographic for outreach under
several existing NSF programs, includ-
ing the Robert Noyce Teacher Scholar-
ship Program.
Finally, H.R. 425 creates an inter-
agency committee on veterans in
STEM and directs the creation of a
strategic plan for transitioning and
training veterans and military spouses
into STEM careers.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 425 will help us ce-
ment our global leadership by ensuring
more veterans with the STEM skills we
need are able to translate their talent
into STEM careers. I strongly urge my
colleagues to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Dr.
NEAL DUNN and Congressman CONOR
LAMB for their work to support our Na-
tion’s veterans.
H.R. 425 will help veterans put their
training and experience in military
service to new and important uses and
help America stay competitive in re-
search and innovation on a global
scale.
In the last decade alone, jobs requir-
ing some level of STEM expertise have
grown by more than 30 percent, includ-
ing jobs that do not require a bach-
elor’s degree.
Nearly 7 million jobs are unfulfilled
in the United States due to a shortage
of skilled workers, many in STEM and
related fields.
In my State of Oklahoma, our uni-
versities estimate we have 2,000 open
engineering jobs. At the same time,
veterans and transitioning service-
members represent a valuable, skilled
talent pool from which to meet this
critical need.
H.R. 425 will improve outreach to
veterans through the National Science
Foundation’s programs to support and
train STEM workers. We can serve our
veterans and help them translate their
experience into meaningful STEM
work.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. LAMB).
Mr. LAMB. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
support veterans in STEM careers.
First, I would like to thank the gen-
tleman from Florida, Dr. DUNN, for his
leadership in helping connect veterans
to these good jobs.
Veterans are working today. Most
Americans are working today. The un-
employment rate is low. And yet every-
where I go, I meet businesspeople who
tell me that they can’t find the right
workers for the right jobs at the right
time. If we could fix this, we would
stop being held back by the shortage of
workforce that we face, and, most im-
portantly, our families would not be
held back by lower paychecks.
But these new jobs in cybersecurity,
in medical technology, in advanced
manufacturing, they are hard jobs and
they require training.
b 1715
We need to make the training avail-
able to people where they live at a cost
that they can actually afford. We have
no time to waste.
Our businesses are competing on a
global stage against countries that will
use the full machinery of their govern-
ments to make sure their workforces
are ready. We need to meet their ef-
forts with an even greater one.
Luckily, we already have a workforce
that will go anywhere and do anything.
When it comes to hard work, these
folks are fearless. That is the veteran
population here in the United States.
Marine officers are trained that if we
are given an order to move that moun-
tain over there, no sooner is the order
completed than we are leading 100 ma-
rines down the road with shovels.
I still have great faith in the ability
of 100 marines with shovels, but what
we really need today are hundreds of
thousands of veterans who can 3D print
those shovels, put them in the hands of
robots, program them to go down the
road, and defend the entire network
from foreign intrusion.
These are the jobs of today and to-
morrow. These are the jobs that will
support our families. Most impor-
tantly, these are the jobs that will
grow the new middle class.
We want to make sure veterans get
these jobs. To do that, we are going to
use this bill to turn to the National
Science Foundation. The National
Science Foundation was born in the
aftermath of World War II to make
sure that we led the world in science
and math, and the most important ad-
vancements. We knew that if we did
that, we could make our country safe,
healthy, and strong.
If we are going to continue that mis-
sion in the new generation, we will
need veterans to lead the way.
We do have a global competition on
our hands, Mr. Speaker, and I know we
can win it if we have the veterans with
us. This bill will help them, and I urge
all my colleagues to come together to
pass it.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DUNN), one of the great pro-
ponents of veterans and a great pro-
ponent of moving us forward in the sci-
entific perspective in this Congress.
Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
good friend from Oklahoma, Mr. LUCAS,
for yielding to me.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.010 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2060 February 25, 2019
H.R. 425, the Supporting Veterans in
STEM Careers Act, is about helping ex-
pand veterans’ job and education op-
portunities in the sciences. The bill di-
rects the National Science Foundation
to develop a veterans outreach plan
and publish data on veterans’ partici-
pation in mathematics, science, and
technology in its annual ‘‘Science and
Engineering Indicators’’ report.
The bill also updates the NSF Robert
Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program,
its fellowship programs, and the cyber
grant programs to include outreach to
veterans.
Additionally, the White House Office
of Science and Technology Policy is
tasked with overseeing an interagency
working group to examine how to in-
crease veteran participation in the
STEM career fields, including address-
ing any barriers for both servicemem-
bers and their spouses.
In the next 5 years, between 1 million
and 1.5 million members of the Armed
Forces will separate from the military,
according to the Department of De-
fense. Many of these veterans will be
seeking new careers, and by a great
margin, veterans cite finding employ-
ment as their number-one need when
separating from Active-Duty service.
According to the U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics, occupations in STEM
fields are projected to grow to more
than 9 million jobs by 2022. Research
shows that many military veterans al-
ready have skills and training that
align with STEM careers, particularly
in the area of information technology.
However, it also shows that veterans
face many barriers as they reenter the
workforce, including a lack of formal
certified STEM education, career guid-
ance, and the difficult task of transfer-
ring military credits to civilian college
credits.
Our Nation’s veterans deserve every
opportunity to transition to a reward-
ing and successful civilian life. This
bill will help all servicemembers con-
tinue to serve our Nation in new ways
by fulfilling 21st century jobs and keep-
ing America on the cutting edge of in-
novation.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman
LAMB, a fellow member of the Science,
Space, and Technology Committee and
a Marine Corps veteran, for cospon-
soring this bipartisan legislation. And I
salute my fellow veterans on the
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee who joined me in introducing
this bill.
Last year, the House passed this leg-
islation by an overwhelming margin,
but we did not make it across the fin-
ish line in the Senate. This year, we
have a bipartisan companion bill in the
Senate, introduced by my home State
Senator MARCO RUBIO and Senator AMY
KLOBUCHAR.
Mr. Speaker, I believe that now is the
time to get this done to help our Na-
tion’s veterans. I urge my colleagues to
pass this bill and the Senate to act on
it and send H.R. 425 to the President’s
desk.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I have
no more speakers, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I have no
additional speakers. I note that I think
the gentleman from Florida, Dr. DUNN,
very eloquently summed it up just mo-
ments ago. Veterans deserve every op-
portunity to transition back and to
utilize those skills.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Dr. DUNN for in-
troducing this bill again, and we will
work hard to see this through to the
end.
I thank Mr. LAMB for his comments.
It is certainly something that I have
experienced, which is employers need-
ing to find more workers. The men and
women who are coming out of our
armed services have those skills that
are needed. We just need to give them
a little more help to get them con-
nected. This bill does that.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 425, the Supporting Vet-
erans in STEM Careers Act. I commend Mr.
DUNN and Mr. LAMB for their leadership in
bringing this important legislation to the floor.
As Chair of the Science, Space, and Tech-
nology Committee I am committed to sup-
porting a strong STEM workforce. In light of
increasing global competition, we must do
more to ensure workers are equipped with the
STEM skills and knowledge employers need.
Veterans are a highly trained and highly mo-
tivated group. They have the skills, the deter-
mination, and the know-how to thrive in high-
paying, secure STEM careers. H.R. 425 di-
rects the National Science Foundation and the
Office of Science and Technology Policy to le-
verage existing data and programs to better
support veterans in their transition to the
STEM workforce. We need all hands on deck
if we are to maintain our standing as the glob-
al leader in innovation. H.R. 425 is a good
step in that direction. I urge my colleagues to
join me in support of this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LIPIN-
SKI) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 425.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECOGNIZING ACHIEVEMENT IN
CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES
ACT
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 276) to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing
Inspiring School Employees (RISE)
Award Program recognizing excellence
exhibited by classified school employ-
ees providing services to students in
prekindergarten through high school.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 276
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Recognizing
Achievement in Classified School Employees
Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Classified school employees provide val-
uable service in the United States.
(2) Classified school employees provide es-
sential services, such as transportation, fa-
cilities maintenance and operations, food
service, safety, and health care.
(3) Classified school employees play a vital
role in providing for the welfare and safety
of students.
(4) Classified school employees strive for
excellence in all areas of service to the edu-
cation community.
(5) Exemplary classified school employees
should be recognized for their outstanding
contributions to quality education in the
United States.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEE.—The
term ‘‘classified school employee’’ means an
employee of a State or of any political sub-
division of a State, or an employee of a non-
profit entity, who works in any grade from
prekindergarten through high school in any
of the following occupational specialties:
(A) Paraprofessional, including
paraeducator services.
(B) Clerical and administrative services.
(C) Transportation services.
(D) Food and nutrition services.
(E) Custodial and maintenance services.
(F) Security services.
(G) Health and student services.
(H) Technical services.
(I) Skilled trades.
(2) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—The terms used in
this Act have the meanings given the terms
in section 8101 of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
SEC. 4. RECOGNITION PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Edu-
cation shall establish a national recognition
program to be known as the ‘‘Recognizing
Inspiring School Employees Award Pro-
gram’’ or the ‘‘award program’’. The purpose
of the award program shall be to recognize
and promote the commitment and excellence
exhibited by classified school employees who
provide exemplary service to students in pre-
kindergarten through high school.
(b) AWARD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Prior to May 31 of each
year (beginning with the second calendar
year that begins after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act), the Secretary shall select
a classified school employee to receive the
Recognizing Inspiring School Employees
Award for the year.
(2) NON-MONETARY VALUE.—The award and
recognition provided under this Act shall
have no monetary value.
(c) SELECTION PROCESS.—
(1) NOMINATION PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than November
1 of each year (beginning with the first cal-
endar year that begins after the date of the
enactment of this Act), the Secretary shall
solicit nominations of classified school em-
ployees from the occupational specialties de-
scribed in section 3(1) from the Governor of
each State.
(B) NOMINATION SUBMISSIONS.—In order for
individuals in a State to be eligible to re-
ceive recognition under this section, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.020 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2061
February 25, 2019
Governor of the State shall consider nomina-
tions submitted by the following:
(i) Local educational agencies.
(ii) School administrators.
(iii) Professional associations.
(iv) Labor organizations.
(v) Educational service agencies.
(vi) Nonprofit entities.
(vii) Parents and students.
(viii) Any other group determined appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(2) DEMONSTRATION.—Each Governor of a
State who desires individuals in the State to
receive recognition under this section shall
submit the nominations described in para-
graph (1) to the Secretary in such manner as
may be required by the Secretary. Each such
nomination shall contain, at a minimum,
demonstrations of excellence in the fol-
lowing areas:
(A) Work performance.
(B) School and community involvement.
(C) Leadership and commitment.
(D) Local support.
(E) Enhancement of classified school em-
ployees’ image in the community and
schools.
(3) SELECTION.—The Secretary shall de-
velop uniform national guidelines for evalu-
ating nominations submitted under para-
graph (2) in order to select the most deserv-
ing nominees based on the demonstrations
made in the areas described in such para-
graph.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Nevada (Mrs. LEE) and the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Nevada.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Nevada?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, despite being under the
weather, I decided to come down here
to thank my colleague and the dean of
our delegation, Congresswoman DINA
TITUS, for leading this bipartisan ef-
fort.
This legislation would establish the
Classified School Employee of the Year
RISE Award Program to recognize the
achievements and contributions of
classified school employees to student
education in schools across the coun-
try.
Classified school employees are crit-
ical members of the education work-
force, making up one out of every three
public school employees who assist stu-
dents in our Nation’s public schools.
Classified school employees provide es-
sential services, such as transpor-
tation, facilities maintenance and op-
erations, food service, safety, and
healthcare.
It is past time that the U.S. Depart-
ment of Education recognize the tire-
less efforts of our Nation’s outstanding
classified school employees. The stat-
ure of the Secretary of Education in
recognizing the RISE Award will pro-
vide national leadership and partner-
ship to encourage broad participation
in the development, selection, and rec-
ognition process.
Classified school employees across
the country do extraordinary and in-
spirational things in their schools and
communities to promote quality edu-
cation, foster positive learning envi-
ronments, and ensure student success.
The RISE Award will recognize the
contributions of classified school em-
ployees to student success.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes,’’ and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 276. I thank my colleagues
across the aisle, the gentlewoman from
Nevada, and also all those who are
original cosponsors in support of this
bill.
It is not uncommon for a school em-
ployee to make a lasting impression on
a student or even on entire generations
of students. Front office attendants,
school custodians, school safety per-
sonnel, food service workers, and oth-
ers all interface directly with countless
students every day. Many of these
school employees make lifelong im-
pacts on the students who they serve.
Ask any student and they will prob-
ably tell you about a particular school
employee who may not have been their
teacher, but, nevertheless, imparted
crucial life lessons upon them or in-
spired joy and confidence in students
who struggled to find either. Schools
are made better by these leaders, and
students benefit from their kindness,
thoughtfulness, compassion, and re-
spect that they show to others around
them.
Mr. Speaker, these employees truly
go above and beyond the call of duty to
serve American students, and their
steadfast devotion deserves our appre-
ciation and recognition.
H.R. 276, the Recognizing Achieve-
ment in Classified School Employees
Act, will direct the Secretary of Edu-
cation to establish the Recognizing In-
spiring School Employees Award, oth-
erwise known as the RISE Award. The
RISE Award will be presented each
year to a classified school employee in
a nonteaching position in recognition
of their invaluable contribution to the
lives of students at the schools that
they serve.
The award will be nonmonetary and
will go to employees who demonstrate
excellent work performance, school
and community involvement, leader-
ship, and commitment, and who exem-
plify the very best of what it means to
be a classified school employee.
H.R. 276 is just one small way to
honor the men and women in our com-
munities who demonstrate to students
what it means to be outstanding citi-
zens and civic leaders. Their tireless ef-
forts deserve our recognition and
thanks. I urge my colleagues in the
House to support this commonsense
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Nevada (Ms. TITUS), the lead
sponsor of H.R. 276.
Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend for yielding and for her support
of this bill that creates the RISE
Award.
I would like to address the bill before
you by telling you the story of Ms. Vir-
ginia Mills. Ms. Mills started her ca-
reer as a security guard at William E.
Orr Middle School in District One in
Las Vegas over two decades ago.
Almost immediately upon getting to
the school, she saw that children were
going to school without backpacks on
their shoulders to carry their books
and equipment. She saw athletes try-
ing out for the basketball team with-
out having the proper shoes on their
feet. She saw children who didn’t have
enough clothes to make it through the
whole week without changing.
So in her very first month on the job,
taking old items from her own daugh-
ter’s closet, she started a clothes closet
for middle school students in need. She
first enlisted the help of friends, then
teachers, and then community mem-
bers. Eventually, the closet grew to in-
clude school supplies and even food for
children to take home on the week-
ends, when they might otherwise go
hungry.
Ms. Mills has watched these students
grow over the years to become assem-
blymen and -women in the legislature,
business leaders, and community orga-
nizers. She said: ‘‘Giving a helping
hand to these students has inspired
them to become better adults . . . .
They now understand the importance
of paying it forward.’’
Virginia Mills has improved the lives
of so many middle school students in
my district, and she has filled a gap
that too many young people are in dan-
ger of falling into. And she wanted me
to tell you that she didn’t do it alone.
There are countless people in our
schools, including security guards who
do more than keep students safe; they
keep them motivated. There are bus
drivers who provide more than just a
ride; they offer friendship. There are
counselors and nurses and cafeteria
workers who strive tirelessly behind
the scenes to ensure the success of our
students in our schools. Yet, too often,
their contributions go unrecognized.
That is why I introduced this bipar-
tisan legislation to celebrate the crit-
ical role that school staff plays in help-
ing our students learn and enabling our
teachers to teach.
b 1730
The contributions of these vital
school employees can’t really be meas-
ured, but they can and should be recog-
nized.
It is in our children’s interest and
certainly in our national interest for
the Department of Education to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.016 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2062 February 25, 2019
present these RISE Awards to people
like Virginia Mills who have made such
a profound impact on our Nation’s
youth. So for those who work so hard
to help our students become the best
versions of themselves, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance
of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the story
that was shared about the woman
working in that school district. I think
we all probably have those stories as
we think fondly back on our school ex-
periences, whether it was elementary
or high school, about individuals who
weren’t necessarily teachers but were
still very influential in making an im-
pression and setting a great example to
be followed in so many different ways.
That is why I am so pleased to be able
to support this piece of legislation.
I have had the privilege and honor to
be in our schools that are recognized as
the Blue Ribbon Schools and Schools
to Watch, and those are wonderful.
They are wonderful not just because of
what has been accomplished for those
kids, but they do become an inspira-
tion to other schools to strive for and
to achieve.
What this piece of legislation does,
Mr. Speaker, is to take that down to
the staff level, because we know that
the most valuable resource and asset
that we have in our schools are peo-
ple—not necessarily the classroom or
anything that is physical like that, but
it is the teachers, the faculty, and the
staff. Being able to recognize the staff
who work so hard each and every day
there who are not necessarily teachers
is a great opportunity.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I certainly
am very excited about supporting this
piece of legislation, H.R. 276. I urge my
colleagues to vote ‘‘yes,’’ and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
In closing, I would like to thank Rep-
resentative TITUS for her leadership in
bringing forth this bipartisan piece of
legislation.
When it comes to delivering the
promise of a great public school for
every child, it is a team effort. Classi-
fied employees keep the lights on, stu-
dents fed, and learning environments
safe and welcoming.
This past year, we have seen unprece-
dented activism from teachers and
school staff demanding better support
for public schools across the country.
While the media often speaks first
about the contributions and working
conditions for classroom teachers, it is
important to recognize that behind
every teacher is an army of classified
school employees.
Passing this bill to recognize the con-
tributions of classified school employ-
ees is an important first step, but I
urge this body to do more. We must
come together and continue to work
across the aisle to invest in public edu-
cation. We must invest in the staff who
support our public schools and in stu-
dents who count on public schools to
reach their academic potential.
Mr. Speaker, I hope that swift pas-
sage of H.R. 276 is just the beginning,
and I look forward to future action in
this Chamber in support of public
schools. I urge my colleagues to vote
‘‘yes,’’ and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Nevada (Mrs.
LEE) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 276.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
MSPB TEMPORARY TERM
EXTENSION ACT
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1235) to provide that the term of
office of certain members of the Merit
Systems Protection Board shall be ex-
tended by a period of 1 year, to limit
such members from concurrently hold-
ing positions within the Federal Gov-
ernment, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1235
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘MSPB Tem-
porary Term Extension Act’’.
SEC. 2. MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
MEMBERS: TERM EXTENSION AND
LIMITATION ON SERVICE.
The term of office of any member of the
Merit Systems Protection Board appointed
under section 1202 of title 5, United States
Code, serving as such a member on the date
of enactment of this Act shall be extended
for a period of one year beyond the date the
member’s service would otherwise end under
subsection (c) of such section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. HICE) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Virginia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank House leader-
ship for bringing H.R. 1235, the MSPB
Temporary Term Extension Act, so
quickly to the floor at the request of
the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
Chairman CUMMINGS and I introduced
this bill to prevent a potential crisis at
the Merit Systems Protection Board, a
vacant Board without any members.
Acting Chairman Mark Robbins is and
has been the sole member on the Board
since January 2017. His holdover term
expires at the end of this month, the
28th of February, and it cannot be ex-
tended without legislation. We planned
to address this issue through regular
order, but circumstances arose that
prevented us from doing so.
The subcommittee I am going to
chair originally scheduled a hearing to
examine the problem on February 14,
but the hearing was postponed to the
end of this month to allow all Members
to attend the funerals of our colleagues
John Dingell and Walter Jones.
We hoped that the Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee would take action to ad-
dress the problem during its business
meeting on February 20. Although the
Senate committee was able to approve
two nominees for the Board, Chairman
JOHNSON indicated he would withhold
those nominations from the Senate
floor pending the naming of a third
nominee by the White House.
The Senate committee was also re-
portedly working on language to ex-
tend Mr. Robbins’ holdover term for
another year, but no legislation was
considered at the markup, thus our ac-
tion today.
Given these events, it appears less
and less likely that the Senate will be
able to confirm new Board members be-
fore time runs out this Thursday. That
is why the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, Chairman CUMMINGS and I, in-
troduced this stopgap measure, H.R.
1235, to ensure some work by the MSPB
will continue. The legislation will pro-
vide a one-time, 1-year extension for
Mr. Robbins’ term to give the Senate
more time to confirm the additional
Board members.
This version of the bill before us
eliminates the provision prohibiting
dual appointments because Mr. Rob-
bins assured us he would continue to
recuse himself from working on mat-
ters related to OPM and that he would
recuse himself from OPM matters that
related to votes he had taken at MSPB
if this bill is enacted.
This amendment is in response to
many of the concerns raised by our Re-
publican friends.
We urgently need to pass this bill be-
cause we need to ensure that MSPB
can continue its operations. If Mr. Rob-
bins’ term expires without new mem-
bers confirmed, it will be the first time
in the agency’s history that the Board
has no members at all. We will be en-
tering uncharted new territory, and
not good territory.
If there is no principal officer to lead
the agency, not only is it unclear
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.024 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2063
February 25, 2019
which agency functions may continue
and which ones must be suspended, but,
also, whether the entire agency must
shut down completely. Mr. Speaker, I
urge my colleagues not to risk that
shutdown.
There is a lot at stake here. MSPB
protects whistleblowers from retalia-
tion, veterans from job discrimination,
and Federal employees from prohibited
personnel practices. The agency en-
sures that the Federal civil service is
nonpartisan and complies with the
merit system principles.
Since 2017, MSPB has been operating
under certain constraints without a
quorum on the Board. This has pre-
vented the Board from hearing final ap-
peals of agency adverse actions.
The absence of a quorum has also
prevented the Board from issuing spe-
cial studies of the civil service and re-
views of OPM rules and regulations, as
is required. This has resulted in a back-
log, Mr. Speaker, of 2,000 final appeals
which will take more than 3 years to
process and eight Merit Systems stud-
ies pending issuance by the Board.
The current situation is certainly
less than ideal, but let’s not make it
worse by doing nothing and creating a
complete vacancy on the Board.
This would cause decisions made by
Mr. Robbins, by the way, to be voided,
exacerbating the backlog, and any new
Board members who are finally con-
firmed would have to start again from
square one.
We should not and cannot allow that
to happen. Addressing the problem
should be a bipartisan concern, and I
believe it is. We cannot let politics pre-
vent MSPB from doing its job.
The bill in front of us is supported by
the American Federation of Govern-
ment Employees, the National Treas-
ury Employees Union, the National
Federation of Federal Employees, the
Government Accountability Project,
Public Citizen, Project on Government
Oversight, the Make It Safe Coalition,
the Senior Executives Association, and
the National Taxpayers Union.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
letters of support from those organiza-
tions and a coalition of other stake-
holders.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GOVERN-
MENT EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO,
Washington, DC, February 22, 2019.
Hon. ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS,
Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and
Reform, Washington, DC.
Hon. JIM JORDAN,
Ranking Member, House Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN CUMMINGS AND RANKING
MEMBER JORDAN: On behalf of the American
Federation of Government Employees. AFL-
CIO (AFGE), I am writing to urge support for
the ‘‘Merit Systems Protection Board
(MSPB) Temporary Term Extension Act,’’
introduced by Congressman Elijah Cum-
mings (D-MD). This legislation would allow
the term of the current and only MSPB
member to be extended and avoid having a
vacant Board.
An employee may appeal an adverse action
to the MSPB, a third-party agency that
hears and adjudicates civil service appeals.
MSPB administrative judges (AJs) hear the
matter in an adversarial setting and decide
the case in accordance with established legal
precedents. If dissatisfied with the AJ’s deci-
sion. either the agency or the employee may
appeal the decision to the full three Member
MSPB. Currently, the Board does not have a
quorum. Mark Robbins is the only member
on the Board and his term expires on Feb-
ruary 28, 2019. Robbins’ original term ended
in March 2018, and he is currently serving
under a maximum one-year statutory exten-
sion.
When Robbins’ term expires, the Board will
have no Presidentially-appointed members.
The ‘‘MSPB Temporary Term Extension
Act.’’ would allow for Robbins to extend his
term for one additional year and avoid hav-
ing an MSPB with no members. AFGE be-
lieves that the MSPB serves an important
role in upholding the Merit Systems Prin-
ciples and the rights of federal employees.
Therefore, AFGE strongly urges you to sup-
port the ‘‘MSPB Temporary Term Extension
Act.’’ to allow a temporary carryover of the
current and only member of the MSPB.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
J. DAVID COX, SR.,
National President.
NTEU, THE NATIONAL TREASURY
EMPLOYEES UNION,
Washington, DC, February 19, 2019.
Hon. ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS,
Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and
Reform,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN CUMMINGS: On behalf of
the National Treasury Employees Union
(NTEU), representing over 150,000 federal em-
ployees in 33 agencies, 1 write to applaud
your efforts to support the important work
performed by the Merit Systems Protection
Board (MSBP or Board) and ensure that it
can continue. We believe that your bill, the
MSPB Temporary Term Extension Act, is
the appropriate response to address the im-
pending loss of leadership at the Board.
As you know, Mark Robbins is the Acting
Chairman and the only Member left on the
Board. His original term expired last year
and his holdover year will expire on Feb-
ruary 28, 2019. Given the uncertainty regard-
ing the operations of the Board once Mr.
Robbins’ term ends, we appreciate that your
bill would temporarily allow Mr. Robbins to
remain on the Board for a short period of
time while the President’s nominees for the
MSPB undergo Senate consideration. We
also appreciate that the bill stipulates that
the individual who would be allowed to ex-
tend their term would be unable to hold an-
other position in the government at the
same time.
NTEU fully supports your carefully crafted
temporary extension bill and we appreciate
your efforts to safeguard the employee pro-
tections envisioned in the Civil Service Re-
form Act. Thank you.
Sincerely,
ANTHONY M. REARDON
National President.
February 25, 2019.
Hon. ELIJAH CUMMINGS,
Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Reform,
Washington, DC.
Hon. GERALD CONNOLLY,
Chairman, Subcommittee on Government Oper-
ations, Washington, DC.
Hon, JIM JORDAN,
Ranking Member, Committee on Oversight and
Reform, Washington, DC.
Hon. MARK MEADOWS,
Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Government
Operations, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN CUMMINGS, RANKING MEM-
BER JORDAN, CHAIRMAN CONNOLLY, AND RANK-
ING MEMBER MEADOWS: On behalf of the un-
dersigned organizations, who all strongly
value and support our nation’s professional
nonpartisan civil service, we write to express
our concerns about the future of the Merit
Systems Protection Board (MSPB) and con-
vey our support for H.R. 1235.
As you know, the Board has already oper-
ated under unprecedented circumstances,
lacking a quorum for nearly two full years.
The result has been a backlog of nearly 2,000
cases and a delay in justice for federal em-
ployees, whistleblowers, veterans, and fed-
eral annuitants with matters before the
Board, as well as a lack of closure for agen-
cies in personnel matters. Moreover, due to
the lack of quorum the Board has been un-
able to issue official reports or studies to
Congress and the President during a critical
time in which there is growing appreciation
for the imperative of modernizing our civil
service.
On February 13 the Senate Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs Committee
advanced two of the President’s MSPB nomi-
nees, yet they are still awaiting floor action
pending nomination of a third Board member
by the President. Should the Senate be un-
able to approve the Board nominees and re-
store a quorum, effective March 1 the Board
would be without any Senate-confirmed
leadership for the first time in its history,
due to the expiration of acting chairman
Mark Robbins’ holdover period.
In order to ensure that the Board can con-
tinue operations at the most basic levels, in-
cluding the critical role in issuing stays in
whistleblower cases, passage of legislation to
extend the holdover period for the Board is
imperative. We strongly urge passage of H.R.
1235 to prevent the current crisis with the
Board from doing permanent damage to the
merit system and the civil service.
Thank you for your consideration of our
perspective on this critical matter.
Sincerely,
FAA Managers Association (FAAMA),
Federal Managers Association (FMA),
Government Accountability Project
(GAP), Tom Devine, Liberty Coalition,
National Council of Social Security
Management Associations (NCSSMA),
National Federation of Federal Em-
ployees (NFFE), National Taxpayers
Union, National Whistleblower Center,
Professional Managers Association
(PMA), Project on Government Over-
sight (POGO), Public Citizen, Senior
Executives Association (SEA), Tax-
payer Protection Alliance, Union of
Concerned Scientists, Whistleblowers
of America.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
H.R. 1235, a commonsense stopgap
measure to prevent serious injury to
hardworking civil servants who expect
the Merit Systems Protection Board to
function.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on
H.R. 1235, the MSPB Temporary Term
Extension Act.
My colleagues on the other side of
the aisle know that I personally am
committed to ensuring the successful
operation of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board, also known as MSPB. In
fact, last Congress, I introduced H.R.
6391, the MSPB Reauthorization Act of
2018. My bill would have reauthorized
the Board and made other vital re-
forms. The Committee on Oversight
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.026 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2064 February 25, 2019
and Government Reform reported the
bill favorably, but without a single
vote from my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle.
We all know an effective and func-
tional MSPB is important to the
health of our Federal workforce.
MSPB’s primary responsibility is to
adjudicate appeals of Federal personnel
actions. MSPB also plays a vital role in
Federal whistleblower protections.
To be effective and issue decisions,
MSPB needs at least a two-member
quorum, but the Board has not had a
quorum for over 2 years. In January
2017, Mark Robbins, as my friend men-
tioned, become the sole remaining
member of MSPB.
Last year, Mr. Robbins’ 7-year term
came to an end, and he was granted a
1-year extension as authorized by law,
but that extension ends this week.
Starting Friday, the MSPB will be
without a single Board member.
My colleagues claim this bill is an
emergency measure to prevent the
MSPB from extending this crisis of
leadership, but I disagree. The real
problem is the lack of a quorum.
Without a quorum for the last 2
years, a backlog of undecided appeals
has grown to over 1,700 cases. Mr. Rob-
bins cannot fix that problem on his
own. His continued tenure will not re-
solve those cases.
In December, the President selected
Mr. Robbins to serve as the general
counsel at the Office of Personnel Man-
agement, so for the last 10 weeks, he
has served in both capacities at OPM
and MSPB. Mr. Robbins is planning to
serve at OPM in his full capacity begin-
ning this Friday.
Mr. Robbins has stayed at MSPB as
long as he has out of a sense of duty to
MSPB and its mission. I trust that my
colleagues do not intend to use this bill
to coerce Mr. Robbins to stay any
longer than he wants to.
b 1745
I urge my colleagues to join me in
applauding Mr. Robbins for his dedica-
tion to MSPB, the Federal workforce,
the President, and our country. I also
urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting the Senate’s confirmation of
President Trump’s nominees.
We owe it to our Federal workers to
give MSPB a quorum so the board can
do the important job that Congress
gave it to do.
In the future, I certainly hope we can
work together to provide certainty to
Federal workers and whistleblowers by
making MSPB operational once again.
Mr. Speaker, I have no further speak-
ers, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Briefly, in responding to my friend: I
agree with him. I think we need a full
board. Our problem is the Senate. They
didn’t get around to acting in a timely
fashion, and so we are faced with this.
I think it is also important to note
that, although a quorum is necessary
for most work of MSPB, it isn’t nec-
essary for all of it.
So Mr. Robbins, in a caretaker, in-
terim position, can still do some of the
work of the board, including issuing
stays, reviewing some of the work, and
helping to avoid adding to the backlog.
He can’t substitute himself fully, ob-
viously, for a quorum in the board. My
colleague is quite right about that.
What we are trying to do here is not
to compel him or coerce him to stay
against his wishes; it is to try to buy
some time and have the board at least
do some of its basic functions so that
we don’t come to a complete standstill.
That would not be necessary, frankly,
had the Senate acted.
I think my friend is right in sug-
gesting that is the ultimate answer,
and I would join him in calling on the
Senate to act as swiftly as possible.
But I think we have no choice but to
act on this bill now.
With that, Mr. Speaker, I urge pas-
sage of the bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CON-
NOLLY) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1235, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘To provide that the term
of office of certain members of the
Merit Systems Protection Board shall
be extended by a period of 1 year, and
for other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 46 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. PETERS) at 6 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 539, by the yeas and nays;
H.R. 276, by the yeas and nays; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
INNOVATORS TO ENTREPRENEURS
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 539) to require the Director of
the National Science Foundation to de-
velop an I-Corps course to support com-
mercialization-ready innovation com-
panies, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LIPIN-
SKI) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 385, nays 18,
not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 88]
YEAS—385
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.027 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2065
February 25, 2019
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—18
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Cline
Ferguson
Foxx (NC)
Gohmert
Gosar
Griffith
Grothman
Hern, Kevin
Massie
McClintock
Rice (SC)
Roy
Steube
Yoho
NOT VOTING—28
Abraham
Babin
Bilirakis
Bonamici
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Cohen
Costa
Davis, Danny K.
DeFazio
Frankel
Gomez
Herrera Beutler
Horn, Kendra S.
Katko
King (IA)
Lawson (FL)
Lowey
Matsui
Morelle
Pocan
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Schrader
Smith (WA)
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Trone
b 1900
Messrs. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma,
FERGUSON, RICE of South Carolina,
GOSAR, STEUBE, BUCK, GRIFFITH,
and BROOKS of Alabama changed their
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. HICE of Georgia and PALM-
ER changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RESIGNATION AS CLERK OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 25, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to inform
you that I am resigning my position as Clerk
of the House effective midnight on February
25, 2019. Thank you for the honor of renomi-
nating me to serve in the position of Clerk of
the House in the 116th Congress.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the resignation is accepted.
There was no objection.
f
THANKING KAREN L. HAAS FOR
HER SERVICE AS CLERK OF THE
HOUSE, AND WELCOMING CLERK-
DESIGNATE CHERYL L. JOHNSON
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
thank and congratulate Karen Haas,
and say how very appreciative this
House is for the extraordinary service
that has been given to us for many
years, and to the people of this coun-
try, by Karen Haas.
Karen, thank you so much.
She has been the Clerk of the House
for a very long time. She was the Clerk
of the House in the 109th and 110th Con-
gresses as well.
Throughout her tenure, she served
with distinction, working hard to en-
sure that the Office of the Clerk always
acted in a nonpartisan, bipartisan way,
which brought credit on this House and
great service to every Member.
Thank you for that, Karen.
Many of us serving in the House have
known her even longer, going back to
her service on the staff of former
Speaker Hastert and former Repub-
lican Leader Bob Michel.
I might say of the latter, Bob Michel
was one of the finest human beings I
have ever known and one of the best
Members that I have ever served with.
Karen was proud to serve with him, and
he, I know, was so fond of Karen and
her service to him and to the House.
Now, I may not be totally objective.
Karen is a native Marylander. Karen is
also a graduate of the University of
Maryland, so Karen and I share a lot in
common. We live in Maryland; we grad-
uated from Maryland; and we love this
House.
I offer her the thanks of the House,
its Members, and our staff, as she steps
down from this position. I am not sure
where Karen is going, but I guarantee
you, our loss will be somebody else’s
gain, because she has the kind of tal-
ent, commitment, energy, and faithful-
ness that will make a real difference
wherever she goes.
I also congratulate Cheryl Johnson
for becoming the 36th Clerk of the
House of Representatives.
Ladies and gentlemen of the House,
Cheryl returns to the House where she
served for 20 years with the Committee
on Education and Labor, as well as the
Committee on House Administration.
She will bring an extraordinary
amount of experience to her job as the
Clerk of the House. I know she will do
an outstanding job, and I welcome her
back to this House, which she has
served so ably before.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to yield to
the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
SCALISE), the Republican whip.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Maryland, the Ter-
rapin from Maryland, for yielding.
I want to say, first, we are going to
miss Karen Haas. Karen Haas served
this body so well, as the majority lead-
er talked about, and in such a fair way,
treating all Members with the dignity
and respect that they all deserve as we
all carry out the work of the people’s
House.
When you think about the different
roles that she has played, serving this
Chamber, this body, for decades in a
number of different roles, but, of
course, most notably to all of us, twice
as Clerk of the House. She was actually
here once before, left, realized just how
much fun it is to be in this House and
work for this great body, and came
back.
We thank you for coming back again
and for your great service during these
times.
So much work goes into the oper-
ations of the House. The things that we
do on a daily basis, whether it is a
Member filing a bill, when you go down
to drop your bill in the hopper, it is
Karen and the entire team that she has
put together at the Office of the Clerk
that receives the bills, that processes
the bills.
When we all vote for and sometimes
against the Journal, it is the Clerk
that puts together the Journal of the
House to make sure that the things
that we do are properly recorded
throughout time for people to go re-
view.
It is an important job. But it is the
work that she has done that we all see
on a daily basis that we are going to
miss.
As Cheryl Johnson takes her place,
best of luck to you as well. We wish
you all the best, but we are going to
miss Karen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.013 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2066 February 25, 2019
We wish you the best in your next en-
deavor. You can come visit us from
time to time.
Karen, thank you so much for the
work that you have done on behalf of
not just us as Members of Congress,
but on behalf of all the American peo-
ple who count on this institution to
function properly, for helping us make
sure that it is done in a proper, effi-
cient, fair, and impartial way. Best of
luck to you, Karen.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the whip for his comments, and I cer-
tainly share his views. I am now
pleased to yield to my friend, the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. MCCAR-
THY), the Republican leader.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend for yielding, and I rise
to congratulate Karen Haas, who after
five terms as Clerk of the House, is re-
tiring.
I would like to remind all Members
in this body that fewer than 11,000 peo-
ple have ever had the privilege to serve
in this House. It is even fewer for a
Clerk.
Karen was our 34th Clerk and only
the second woman to hold that posi-
tion. We thank you for that leadership.
When we think about the role of the
House Clerk, you think of roll calls and
recorded votes. But the Office of the
Clerk is really about continuity. With-
out the Clerk, Congress could not ful-
fill its obligation to the American peo-
ple and move in a smooth manner,
which many people don’t see the chal-
lenge.
Few individuals are more committed
to preserving the continuity than
Karen. She has done that as Clerk and
as a trusted staff member and floor as-
sistant. Always, she has been a friend
and counselor to Members, regardless
of what side of the aisle you sat on.
Karen Haas also equipped and mod-
ernized this House for the 21st century.
Oftentimes, you won’t see that because
it is behind the scenes, but it makes
the legislative process more accessible
to the people it serves.
Mr. Speaker, we are grateful to
Karen for her dedication, her team’s
professionalism, and her steady hand
on the tiller. Her service reminds us of
an important fact: The people’s House
is only as good as its people.
You rose to the occasion. On behalf
of a very grateful House, and a grateful
Nation, we say thank you, Karen.
And to Cheryl, we wish you the best.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, it is my
privilege to yield to the Speaker of the
House, Ms. PELOSI.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the distinguished leader for recognition
and calling us together to salute two
great women in this Chamber.
Mr. Speaker, I rise for the great
honor of swearing in Cheryl Lynn
Johnson as the 36th Clerk of the House
of Representatives. This is a very dis-
tinguished and prestigious role.
Mr. MCCARTHY, I was pleased to ap-
point the first African American
woman Clerk of the House, Lorraine
Miller, when I was Speaker before, and
now I am happy to be appointing the
second.
We are privileged to be joined by
Cheryl’s parents, the Reverend Charlie
Davis and Cynthia Davis of New Orle-
ans, who are with us in the Chamber.
Thank you for being with us.
We are also pleased to welcome
Cheryl’s husband, Clarence Ellison, and
her son, Bradford, to this Chamber
today as well. Welcome to you, and
thank you.
I join our colleagues, the distin-
guished Democratic leader, the Repub-
lican leader, and distinguished Repub-
lican whip in saluting House Clerk
Karen Haas for her many years of dis-
tinguished service to this institution.
Anyone who knows her is proud of
her service. On behalf of the U.S. House
of Representatives, I thank you, Karen,
for the great integrity and dedication
for which you have served the people’s
House. Thank you so much.
She has been magnificent.
Cheryl Johnson embodies public serv-
ice and has dedicated her career to
strengthening many of the most impor-
tant institutions of our democracy, in-
cluding our own.
Indeed, today is a homecoming, as
Leader HOYER has mentioned, as
Cheryl returns to the House of Rep-
resentatives where she worked with
distinction and honor for Chairman
Lacy Clay, Sr.—I emphasize senior—of
the Committee on House Administra-
tion’s Subcommittee on Libraries and
Memorials; and the House Committee
on Post Offices and Civil Service Sub-
committee on Investigations.
Our country is stronger for her work
on the then-Committee on Education
and the Workforce to secure justice
and progress for our children and ad-
vance fairness and respect for our
workers.
In the Congress, she earned the re-
spect of all—Members and staff, Demo-
crats and Republicans—for being a
leader of compassion, courage, and
commitment.
Cheryl returns to the House after
more than a decade at the Smithsonian
Institution. Her great dedication to
that American treasure—which is the
largest museum in the world—has en-
sured that it will remain a source of
creativity, innovation, and research for
generations to come.
Our Nation is particularly grateful
for her extraordinary vision and per-
sistence in helping transform the
dream of the National Museum of Afri-
can American History and Culture into
a reality.
Cheryl has made a difference empow-
ering millions of Americans and visi-
tors from abroad to explore and be in-
spired by the beauty and richness of
American culture and history.
Cheryl’s strong leadership and deep
love and respect for the institutions of
our democracy will be vital in her role
as House Clerk, strengthening and safe-
guarding the Congress in the tradition
of Karen and the Congress, the first
branch of government, Article I.
I thank Cheryl for her commitment
to our institution and to our democ-
racy; and with great, again, recogni-
tion and appreciation to Karen Haas
for her service.
It is now my privilege to administer
the oath of office to Cheryl Johnson.
f
ELECTING THE CLERK OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I offer
a privileged resolution (H. Res. 143) and
ask for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 143
Resolved, That Cheryl L. Johnson of the
State of Louisiana, be, and is hereby, chosen
Clerk of the House of Representatives, effec-
tive February 26, 2019.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SWEARING IN OF THE CLERK OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
The SPEAKER. Will the Clerk-des-
ignate please take the well and all
Members please rise.
The Chair will now swear in the
Clerk-designate of the House.
The Clerk-designate took the oath of
office as follows:
Do you solemnly swear or affirm that you
will support and defend the Constitution of
the United States against all enemies, for-
eign and domestic; that you will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that you
take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion;
and that you will well and faithfully dis-
charge the duties of the office on which you
are about to enter, so help you God.
The SPEAKER. Congratulations.
f
WELCOMING CHERYL L. JOHNSON
AS THE 36TH CLERK OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
(Mr. CLAY asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CLAY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the newly in-
stalled Clerk of the U.S. House, Cheryl
Lynn Johnson.
She is the 36th American to be elect-
ed to this critical position. The Clerk,
as we know, serves as the legislative
official in the House, a position that
goes back to the first Clerk and to the
first Congress in 1789. As was men-
tioned, she comes to us from the
Smithsonian Institution where she
served as the Director of Government
Relations.
Among her many achievements, as
was mentioned, Cheryl helped to make
the National Museum of African Amer-
ican History and Culture a brilliant re-
ality.
But this is not her first tour of duty
on Capitol Hill. In fact, she previously
spent almost two decades in service to
this institution, and as was mentioned,
her first position was serving on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.033 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2067
February 25, 2019
committee staff of my father, former
Congressman Bill Clay.
She spent 10 years as the chief edu-
cation and investigative counsel for
the Committee on Education and the
Workforce where she advanced reforms
in elementary and secondary edu-
cation, juvenile justice, child nutri-
tion, labor issues, and employment and
nutrition programs for seniors.
Prior to that, she served as staff di-
rector and counsel for the Committee
on House Administration’s Sub-
committee on Libraries and Memorials
and then Subcommittee on the Post Of-
fice and Civil Service.
Ms. Johnson is a distinguished grad-
uate of Howard University Law School
and the University of Iowa. She is mar-
ried to Clarence and has a son, Brad-
ford.
I go back with Cheryl as a friend for
40 years. Our families are close. Grow-
ing up around this institution that we
all love, I was fortunate to be in the
company of and witness the examples
set by many great public servants—
Members and staff—who devoted them-
selves to representing their constitu-
ents in the true spirit of public service.
Cheryl Johnson exemplifies the high-
est standards of public service, honor,
and integrity that will elevate the
116th Congress. I am pleased to wel-
come her as our new Clerk, and I am
prouder still to call her my good friend.
She will be an enormous resource for
Members and staff, and I am proud to
welcome her home.
Welcome back, Cheryl. Congratula-
tions.
f
RECOGNIZING ACHIEVEMENT IN
CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PETERS). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the unfinished business is the vote
on the motion to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 276) to direct the
Secretary of Education to establish the
Recognizing Inspiring School Employ-
ees (RISE) Award Program recognizing
excellence exhibited by classified
school employees providing services to
students in prekindergarten through
high school, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Nevada (Mrs.
LEE) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 387, nays 19,
not voting 25, as follows:
[Roll No. 89]
YEAS—387
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—19
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Davidson (OH)
Gohmert
Gosar
Grothman
Harris
Hice (GA)
Hunter
Massie
Mitchell
Olson
Perry
Rice (SC)
Roy
Weber (TX)
Yoho
NOT VOTING—25
Abraham
Babin
Beyer
Bilirakis
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Cohen
Davis, Danny K.
DeFazio
Frankel
Herrera Beutler
Horn, Kendra S.
Katko
King (IA)
Lawson (FL)
Lowey
Matsui
Morelle
Pocan
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Schrader
Smith (WA)
Swalwell (CA)
Trone
b 1930
Mr. GROTHMAN changed his vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. CLINE changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoid-
ably detained due to inclement weather in
New York and missed votes. Had I been
present, I would have voted YEA on Roll Call
No. 88 regarding the ‘‘Innovators to Entre-
preneurs Act of 2019 (H.R. 539)’’ and YEA on
Roll Call No. 89 regarding the ‘‘Recognizing
Achievement in Classified School Employees
Act (H.R. 276).’’
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
able to vote on February 25, 2019 due to in-
clement weather preventing my scheduled air
travel from Iowa to Washington, D.C. Had I
been present, I would have voted as follows:
YES on Roll Call No. 88, and YES on Roll
Call No. 89.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.036 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2068 February 25, 2019
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.J. RES. 46, TERMINATION OF
NATIONAL EMERGENCY DE-
CLARED BY THE PRESIDENT ON
FEBRUARY 15, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–13) on the
resolution (H. Res. 144) providing for
consideration of the joint resolution
(H.J. Res 46) relating to a national
emergency declared by the President
on February 15, 2019, which was re-
ferred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 8, BIPARTISAN BACK-
GROUND CHECKS ACT OF 2019,
AND PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 1112, ENHANCED
BACKGROUND CHECKS ACT OF
2019
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–14) on the
resolution (H. Res. 145) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 8) to re-
quire a background check for every
firearm sale, and providing for consid-
eration of the bill (H.R. 1112) to amend
chapter 44 of title 18, United States
Code, to strengthen the background
check procedures to be followed before
a Federal firearms licensee may trans-
fer a firearm to a person who is not
such a licensee, which was referred to
the House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
ENACTING INTO LAW A BILL BY
REFERENCE
Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker’s table the bill (S. 483) to
enact into law a bill by reference, and
ask for its immediate consideration in
the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Minnesota?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 483
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. (a) H.R. 1029 of the 115th Con-
gress, as passed by the Senate on June 28,
2018, is enacted into law.
(b) In publishing this Act in slip form and
in the United States Statutes at Large pur-
suant to section 112 of title 1, United States
Code, the Archivist of the United States
shall include after the date of approval at
the end an appendix setting forth the text of
the bill referred to in subsection (a).
AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MR. PETERSON
Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Speaker, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amendment offered by Mr. PETER-
SON:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Pesticide Registration Improvement
Extension Act of 2018’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Extension and modification of main-
tenance fee authority.
Sec. 3. Reregistration and Expedited Proc-
essing Fund.
Sec. 4. Experimental use permits for pes-
ticides.
Sec. 5. Pesticide registration service fees.
Sec. 6. Revision of tables regarding covered
pesticide registration applica-
tions and other covered actions
and their corresponding reg-
istration service fees.
Sec. 7. Agricultural worker protection
standard; certification of pes-
ticide applicators.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF MAIN-
TENANCE FEE AUTHORITY.
(a) MAINTENANCE FEE.—Section 4(i)(1) of
the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(i)(1)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘an ag-
gregate amount of $27,800,000 for each of fis-
cal years 2013 through 2017’’ and inserting
‘‘an average amount of $31,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2019 through 2023’’;
(2) in subparagraph (D)—
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘$115,500 for
each of fiscal years 2013 through 2017’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$129,400 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023’’; and
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘$184,800 for
each of fiscal years 2013 through 2017’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$207,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023’’;
(3) in subparagraph (E)(i)—
(A) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘$70,600 for
each of fiscal years 2013 through 2017’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$79,100 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023’’; and
(B) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘$122,100
for each of fiscal years 2013 through 2017’’
and inserting ‘‘$136,800 for each of fiscal
years 2019 through 2023’’; and
(4) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘2017..’’
and inserting ‘‘2023.’’.
(b) PROHIBITION ON OTHER FEES.—Section
4(i)(2) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(i)(2)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘the date of enactment of
this section and ending on September 30,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘the effective date of the
Pesticide Registration Improvement Exten-
sion Act of 2018 and ending on September 30,
2025’’; and
(2) by inserting after ‘‘registration of a pes-
ticide under this Act’’ the following: ‘‘or any
other action covered under a table specified
in section 33(b)(3),’’.
(c) EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON TOLER-
ANCE FEES.—Section 408(m)(3) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
346a(m)(3)) is amended by striking ‘‘2017’’ and
inserting ‘‘2023’’.
SEC. 3. REREGISTRATION AND EXPEDITED PROC-
ESSING FUND.
(a) AUTHORIZED USE OF FUND.—Section
4(k)(2)(A) of the Federal Insecticide, Fun-
gicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a–
1(k)(2)(A)) is amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘the
fund’’ and inserting ‘‘the Reregistration and
Expedited Processing Fund’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘paragraph (3),’’ in the first
sentence and all that follows through the pe-
riod at the end of the second sentence and in-
serting the following: ‘‘paragraph (3), to off-
set the costs of registration review under
section 3(g), including the costs associated
with any review under the Endangered Spe-
cies Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) re-
quired as part of the registration review, to
offset the costs associated with tracking and
implementing registration review decisions,
including registration review decisions de-
signed to reduce risk, for the purposes speci-
fied in paragraphs (4) and (5), and to enhance
the information systems capabilities to im-
prove the tracking of pesticide registration
decisions.’’;
(3) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘are allocated
solely’’ and all that follows through ‘‘3(g);’’
and inserting the following: ‘‘are allocated
solely for the purposes specified in the first
sentence of this subparagraph;’’; and
(4) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘necessary to
achieve’’ and all that follows through ‘‘3(g);’’
and inserting the following: ‘‘necessary to
achieve the purposes specified in the first
sentence of this subparagraph;’’.
(b) SET-ASIDE FOR REVIEW OF INERT INGRE-
DIENTS AND EXPEDITED PROCESSING OF SIMI-
LAR APPLICATIONS.—Section 4(k)(3)(A) of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(k)(3)(A)) is
amended, in the matter preceding clause (i),
by striking ‘‘The Administrator shall use’’
and all that follows through ‘‘personnel and
resources—’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘For each of fiscal years 2018 through 2023,
the Administrator shall use between 1⁄9 and
1⁄8 of the maintenance fees collected in such
fiscal year to obtain sufficient personnel and
resources—’’.
(c) SET-ASIDE FOR EXPEDITED RULEMAKING
AND GUIDANCE DEVELOPMENT FOR CERTAIN
PURPOSES.—Paragraph (4) of section 4(k) of
the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(k)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(4) EXPEDITED RULEMAKING AND GUIDANCE
DEVELOPMENT FOR CERTAIN PRODUCT PER-
FORMANCE DATA REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) SET-ASIDE.—For each of fiscal years
2018 through 2023, the Administrator shall
use not more than $500,000 of the amounts
made available to the Administrator in the
Reregistration and Expedited Processing
Fund for the activities described in subpara-
graph (B).
‘‘(B) PRODUCTS CLAIMING EFFICACY AGAINST
INVERTEBRATE PESTS OF SIGNIFICANT PUBLIC
HEALTH OR ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE.—The Ad-
ministrator shall use amounts made avail-
able under subparagraph (A) to develop, re-
ceive comments with respect to, finalize, and
implement the necessary rulemaking and
guidance for product performance data re-
quirements to evaluate products claiming ef-
ficacy against the following invertebrate
pests of significant public health or eco-
nomic importance (in order of importance):
‘‘(i) Bed bugs.
‘‘(ii) Premise (including crawling insects,
flying insects, and baits).
‘‘(iii) Pests of pets (including pet pests con-
trolled by spot-ons, collars, shampoos, pow-
ders, or dips).
‘‘(iv) Fire ants.
‘‘(C) DEADLINES FOR GUIDANCE.—The Ad-
ministrator shall develop, and publish guid-
ance required by subparagraph (B), with re-
spect to claims of efficacy against pests de-
scribed in such subparagraph as follows:
‘‘(i) With respect to bed bugs, issue final
guidance not later than 30 days after the ef-
fective date of the Pesticide Registration
Improvement Extension Act of 2018.
‘‘(ii) With respect to pests specified in
clause (ii) of such subparagraph—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.039 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2069
February 25, 2019
‘‘(I) submit draft guidance to the Scientific
Advisory Panel and for public comment not
later than June 30, 2018; and
‘‘(II) complete any response to comments
received with respect to such draft guidance
and finalize the guidance not later than Sep-
tember 30, 2019.
‘‘(iii) With respect to pests specified in
clauses (iii) and (iv) of such subparagraph—
‘‘(I) submit draft guidance to the Scientific
Advisory Panel and for public comment not
later than June 30, 2019; and
‘‘(II) complete any response to comments
received with respect to such draft guidance
and finalize the guidance not later than
March 31, 2021.
‘‘(D) REVISION.—The Administrator shall
revise the guidance required by subpara-
graph (B) from time to time, but shall per-
mit applicants and registrants sufficient
time to obtain data that meet the require-
ments specified in such revised guidance.
‘‘(E) DEADLINE FOR PRODUCT PERFORMANCE
DATA REQUIREMENTS.—The Administrator
shall, not later than September 30, 2021, issue
regulations prescribing product performance
data requirements for any pesticide intended
for preventing, destroying, repelling, or
mitigating any invertebrate pest of signifi-
cant public health or economic importance
specified in clauses (i) through (iv) of sub-
paragraph (B).’’.
(d) SET-ASIDE FOR GOOD LABORATORY PRAC-
TICES INSPECTIONS.—Section 4(k) of the Fed-
eral Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
Act (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(k)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6)
as paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively;
(2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(5) GOOD LABORATORY PRACTICES INSPEC-
TIONS.—
‘‘(A) SET-ASIDE.—For each of fiscal years
2018 through 2023, the Administrator shall
use not more than $500,000 of the amounts
made available to the Administrator in the
Reregistration and Expedited Processing
Fund for the activities described in subpara-
graph (B).
‘‘(B) ACTIVITIES.—The Administrator shall
use amounts made available under subpara-
graph (A) for enhancements to the good lab-
oratory practices standards compliance mon-
itoring program established under part 160 of
title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations
(or successor regulations), with respect to
laboratory inspections and data audits con-
ducted in support of pesticide product reg-
istrations under this Act. As part of such
monitoring program, the Administrator
shall make available to each laboratory in-
spected under such program in support of
such registrations a preliminary summary of
inspection observations not later than 60
days after the date on which such an inspec-
tion is completed.’’; and
(3) in paragraph (7), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘paragraphs (2), (3), and (4)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5)’’.
SEC. 4. EXPERIMENTAL USE PERMITS FOR PES-
TICIDES.
Section 5(a) of the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C.
136c(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘permit for a pesticide.’’
and inserting ‘‘permit for a pesticide. An ap-
plication for an experimental use permit for
a covered application under section 33(b)
shall conform with the requirements of that
section.’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘(or in the case of an appli-
cation for an experimental use permit for a
covered application under section 33(b), not
later than the last day of the applicable
timeframe for such application specified in
such section)’’ after ‘‘all required supporting
data’’.
SEC. 5. PESTICIDE REGISTRATION SERVICE FEES.
(a) EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF FEE
AUTHORITY.—Section 33(b) of the Federal In-
secticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7
U.S.C. 136w–8(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘PESTICIDE
REGISTRATION’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or
for any other action covered by a table speci-
fied in paragraph (3)’’ after ‘‘covered by this
Act that is received by the Administrator on
or after the effective date of the Pesticide
Registration Improvement Act of 2003’’;
(2) in paragraph (5)—
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘PESTICIDE
REGISTRATION APPLICATIONS’’ and inserting
‘‘COVERED APPLICATIONS’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘pesticide registration ap-
plication’’ both places it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘covered application’’;
(3) in paragraph (6)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘pesticide registration’’;
and
(ii) by striking ‘‘October 1, 2013, and ending
on September 30, 2015’’ and inserting ‘‘Octo-
ber 1, 2019, and ending on September 30,
2021’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘pesticide registration’’;
and
(ii) by striking ‘‘2015’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘2021’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘re-
vised registration service fee schedules’’ and
inserting ‘‘service fee schedules revised pur-
suant to this paragraph’’;
(4) in paragraph (7)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘covered pesticide registra-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘covered application’’;
and
(ii) by inserting before the period at the
end the following: ‘‘, except that no waiver
or fee reduction shall be provided in connec-
tion with a request for a letter of certifi-
cation (commonly referred to as a Gold Seal
letter)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (F)(i), by striking
‘‘pesticide registration’’; and
(5) in paragraph (8)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘pes-
ticide registration’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking
‘‘pesticide registration’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘pesticide reg-
istration’’ and inserting ‘‘covered’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii)(I), by striking ‘‘pesticide
registration’’ and inserting ‘‘covered’’.
(b) PESTICIDE REGISTRATION FUND SET-
ASIDES FOR WORKER PROTECTION, PARTNER-
SHIP GRANTS, AND PESTICIDE SAFETY EDU-
CATION.—Section 33(c)(3)(B) of the Federal
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
(7 U.S.C. 136w–8(c)(3)(B)) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by inserting ‘‘, PARTNER-
SHIP GRANTS, AND PESTICIDE SAFETY EDU-
CATION’’ after ‘‘WORKER PROTECTION’’;
(2) in clause (i)—
(A) by striking ‘‘2017’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’;
and
(B) by inserting before the period at the
end the following:‘‘, with an emphasis on
field-worker populations in the United
States’’;
(3) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘2017’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2023’’; and
(4) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘2017’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2023’’.
(c) REFORMS TO REDUCE DECISION TIME RE-
VIEW PERIODS.—Section 33(e) of the Federal
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
(7 U.S.C. 136w–8(e)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Pesticide Registration Im-
provement Extension Act of 2012’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Pesticide Registration Improvement
Extension Act of 2018’’; and
(2) by inserting at the end the following
new sentence: ‘‘Such reforms shall include
identifying opportunities for streamlining
review processes for applications for a new
active ingredient or a new use and providing
prompt feedback to applicants during such
review process.’’.
(d) DECISION TIME REVIEW PERIODS.—Sec-
tion 33(f) of the Federal Insecticide, Fun-
gicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(f)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Pesticide Registration Im-
provement Extension Act of 2012’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Pesticide Registration Improvement
Extension Act of 2018’’; and
(B) by inserting after ‘‘covered pesticide
registration actions’’ the following: ‘‘or for
any other action covered by a table specified
in subsection (b)(3)’’;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking subpara-
graph (C) and inserting the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(C) applications for any other action cov-
ered by a table specified in subsection
(b)(3).’’; and
(3) in paragraph (4)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘a pesticide registration
application’’ and inserting ‘‘a covered appli-
cation’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘covered pesticide registra-
tion application’’ and inserting ‘‘covered ap-
plication’’.
(e) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Section
33(k) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–8(k)) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘2017’’ and
inserting ‘‘2023’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (D), by striking clause
(i) and inserting the following new clause:
‘‘(i) the number of pesticides or pesticide
cases reviewed and the number of registra-
tion review decisions completed, including—
‘‘(I) the number of cases cancelled;
‘‘(II) the number of cases requiring risk
mitigation measures;
‘‘(III) the number of cases removing risk
mitigation measures;
‘‘(IV) the number of cases with no risk
mitigation needed; and
‘‘(V) the number of cases in which risk
mitigation has been fully implemented;’’;
(B) in subparagraph (G)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) by striking ‘‘section 4(k)(4)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 4(k)’’;
and
(II) by striking ‘‘that section’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘such paragraphs’’;
(ii) by striking clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), (v),
and (vi);
(iii) by inserting after clause (i) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(ii) implementing enhancements to—
‘‘(I) the electronic tracking of covered ap-
plications;
‘‘(II) the electronic tracking of conditional
registrations;
‘‘(III) the endangered species database;
‘‘(IV) the electronic review of labels sub-
mitted with covered applications; and
‘‘(V) the electronic review and assessment
of confidential statements of formula sub-
mitted with covered applications; and’’; and
(iv) by redesignating clause (vii) as clause
(iii);
(C) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(D) in subparagraph (J), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting a semicolon;
and
(E) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraphs:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2070 February 25, 2019
‘‘(K) a review of the progress made in de-
veloping, updating, and implementing prod-
uct performance test guidelines for pesticide
products that are intended to control inver-
tebrate pests of significant public health im-
portance and, by regulation, prescribing
product performance data requirements for
such pesticide products registered under sec-
tion 3;
‘‘(L) a review of the progress made in the
priority review and approval of new pes-
ticides to control invertebrate public health
pests that may transmit vector-borne dis-
ease for use in the United States, including
each territory or possession of the United
States, and United States military installa-
tions globally;
‘‘(M) a review of the progress made in im-
plementing enhancements to the good lab-
oratory practices standards compliance mon-
itoring program established under part 160 of
title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations
(or successor regulations);
‘‘(N) the number of approvals for active in-
gredients, new uses, and pesticide end use
products granted in connection with the De-
sign for the Environment program (or any
successor program) of the Environmental
Protection Agency; and
‘‘(O) with respect to funds in the Pesticide
Registration Fund reserved under subsection
(c)(3), a review that includes—
‘‘(i) a description of the amount and use of
such funds—
‘‘(I) to carry out activities relating to
worker protection under clause (i) of sub-
section (c)(3)(B);
‘‘(II) to award partnership grants under
clause (ii) of such subsection; and
‘‘(III) to carry out the pesticide safety edu-
cation program under clause (iii) of such sub-
section;
‘‘(ii) an evaluation of the appropriateness
and effectiveness of the activities, grants,
and program described in clause (i);
‘‘(iii) a description of how stakeholders are
engaged in the decision to fund such activi-
ties, grants, and program; and
‘‘(iv) with respect to activities relating to
worker protection carried out under subpara-
graph (B)(i) of such subsection, a summary of
the analyses from stakeholders, including
from worker community-based organiza-
tions, on the appropriateness and effective-
ness of such activities.’’.
(f) TERMINATION OF EFFECTIVENESS.—Sec-
tion 33(m) of the Federal Insecticide, Fun-
gicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(m)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘2017’’ and
inserting ‘‘2023’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘FISCAL YEAR 2018.—During
fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘FISCAL YEAR
2024.—During fiscal year 2024’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘2017’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘FISCAL YEAR 2019.—During
fiscal year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘FISCAL YEAR
2025.—During fiscal year 2025’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘2017’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’;
(C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—Effective September 30,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘SEPTEMBER 30, 2025.—Ef-
fective September 30, 2025’’; and
(D) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘2017’’
both places it appears and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
SEC. 6. REVISION OF TABLES REGARDING COV-
ERED PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AP-
PLICATIONS AND OTHER COVERED
ACTIONS AND THEIR COR-
RESPONDING REGISTRATION SERV-
ICE FEES.
Paragraph (3) of section 33(b) of the Fed-
eral Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–8(b)) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) SCHEDULE OF COVERED APPLICATIONS
AND OTHER ACTIONS AND THEIR REGISTRATION
SERVICE FEES.—Subject to paragraph (6), the
schedule of registration applications and
other covered actions and their cor-
responding registration service fees shall be
as follows:
‘‘TABLE 1. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — NEW ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review
Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R010 1 New Active Ingredient, Food use. (2)(3) 24 753,082
R020 2 New Active Ingredient, Food use; reduced risk. (2)(3) 18 627,568
R040 3 New Active Ingredient, Food use; Experimental Use Permit application; establish tem-
porary tolerance; submitted before application for registration; credit 45% of fee to-
ward new active ingredient application that follows. (3) 18 462,502
R060 4 New Active Ingredient, Non-food use; outdoor. (2)(3) 21 523,205
R070 5 New Active Ingredient, Non-food use; outdoor; reduced risk. (2)(3) 16 436,004
R090 6 New Active Ingredient, Non-food use; outdoor; Experimental Use Permit application;
submitted before application for registration; credit 45% of fee toward new active in-
gredient application that follows. (3) 16 323,690
R110 7 New Active Ingredient, Non-food use; indoor. (2)(3) 20 290,994
R120 8 New Active Ingredient, Non-food use; indoor; reduced risk. (2)(3) 14 242,495
R121 9 New Active Ingredient, Non-food use; indoor; Experimental Use Permit application; sub-
mitted before application for registration; credit 45% of fee toward new active ingre-
dient application that follows. (3) 18 182,327
R122 10 Enriched isomer(s) of registered mixed-isomer active ingredient. (2)(3) 18 317,128
R123 11 New Active Ingredient, Seed treatment only; includes agricultural and non-agricultural
seeds; residues not expected in raw agricultural commodities. (2)(3) 18 471,861
R125 12 New Active Ingredient, Seed treatment; Experimental Use Permit application; sub-
mitted before application for registration; credit 45% of fee toward new active ingre-
dient application that follows. (3) 16 323,690
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2071
February 25, 2019
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 2. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — NEW USES
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R130 13 First food use; indoor; food/food handling. (2) (3) 21 191,444
R140 14 Additional food use; Indoor; food/food handling. (3) (4) 15 44,672
R150 15 First food use. (2)(3) 21 317,104
R155 16
(new)
First food use, Experimental Use Permit application; a.i. registered for non-
food outdoor use. (3)(4)
21 264,253
R160 17 First food use; reduced risk. (2)(3) 16 264,253
R170 18 Additional food use. (3) (4) 15 79,349
R175 19 Additional food uses covered within a crop group resulting from the conversion
of existing approved crop group(s) to one or more revised crop groups. (3)(4)
10 66,124
R180 20 Additional food use; reduced risk. (3)(4) 10 66,124
R190 21 Additional food uses; 6 or more submitted in one application. (3)(4) 15 476,090
R200 22 Additional Food Use; 6 or more submitted in one application; Reduced Risk.
(3)(4)
10 396,742
R210 23 Additional food use; Experimental Use Permit application; establish temporary
tolerance; no credit toward new use registration. (3)(4)
12 48,986
R220 24 Additional food use; Experimental Use Permit application; crop destruct basis;
no credit toward new use registration. (3)(4)
6 19,838
R230 25 Additional use; non-food; outdoor. (3) (4) 15 31,713
R240 26 Additional use; non-food; outdoor; reduced risk. (3)(4) 10 26,427
R250 27 Additional use; non-food; outdoor; Experimental Use Permit application; no
credit toward new use registration. (3)(4)
6 19,838
R251 28 Experimental Use Permit application which requires no changes to the toler-
ance(s); non-crop destruct basis. (3)
8 19,838
R260 29 New use; non-food; indoor. (3) (4) 12 15,317
R270 30 New use; non-food; indoor; reduced risk. (3)(4) 9 12,764
R271 31 New use; non-food; indoor; Experimental Use Permit application; no credit to-
ward new use registration. (3)(4)
6 9,725
R273 32 Additional use; seed treatment; limited uptake into Raw Agricultural Com-
modities; includes crops with established tolerances (e.g., for soil or foliar ap-
plication); includes food and/or non-food uses. (3)(4)
12 50,445
R274 33 Additional uses; seed treatment only; 6 or more submitted in one application;
limited uptake into raw agricultural commodities; includes crops with estab-
lished tolerances (e.g., for soil or foliar application); includes food and/or non-
food uses. (3)(4)
12 302,663
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2072 February 25, 2019
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
(4) Amendment applications to add the new use(s) to registered product labels are covered by the base fee for the new use(s). All items in
the covered application must be submitted together in one package. Each application for an additional new product registration and new
inert approval(s) that is submitted in the new use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new product or a new
inert approval. However, if a new use application only proposes to register the new use for a new product and there are no amendments in
the application, then review of one new product application is covered by the new use fee. All such associated applications that are sub-
mitted together will be subject to the new use decision review time. Any application for a new product or an amendment to the proposed la-
beling (a) submitted subsequent to submission of the new use application and (b) prior to conclusion of its decision review time and (c) con-
taining the same new uses, will be deemed a separate new-use application, subject to a separate registration service fee and new decision re-
view time for a new use. If the new-use application includes non-food (indoor and/or outdoor), and food (outdoor and/or indoor) uses, the ap-
propriate fee is due for each type of new use and the longest decision review time applies to all of the new uses requested in the application.
Any information that (a) was neither requested nor required by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initia-
tive to support the application after completion of the technical deficiency screen, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application,
must be assessed 25% of the full registration service fee for the new use application.
‘‘TABLE 3. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — IMPORT AND OTHER TOLERANCES
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R280 34 Establish import tolerance; new active ingredient or first food use. (2) 21 319,072
R290 35 Establish Import tolerance; Additional new food use. 15 63,816
R291 36 Establish import tolerances; additional food uses; 6 or more crops submitted in
one petition.
15 382,886
R292 37 Amend an established tolerance (e.g., decrease or increase) and/or harmonize
established tolerances with Codex MRLs; domestic or import; applicant-initi-
ated.
11 45,341
R293 38 Establish tolerance(s) for inadvertent residues in one crop; applicant-initiated. 12 53,483
R294 39 Establish tolerances for inadvertent residues; 6 or more crops submitted in one
application; applicant-initiated.
12 320,894
R295 40 Establish tolerance(s) for residues in one rotational crop in response to a spe-
cific rotational crop application; submission of corresponding label amend-
ments which specify the necessary plant-back restrictions; applicant-initi-
ated. (3) (4)
15 66,124
R296 41 Establish tolerances for residues in rotational crops in response to a specific
rotational crop petition; 6 or more crops submitted in one application; sub-
mission of corresponding label amendments which specify the necessary
plant-back restrictions; applicant-initiated. (3) (4)
15 396,742
R297 42 Amend 6 or more established tolerances (e.g., decrease or increase) in one peti-
tion; domestic or import; applicant-initiated.
11 272,037
R298 43 Amend an established tolerance (e.g., decrease or increase); domestic or im-
port; submission of corresponding amended labels (requiring science review).
(3) (4)
13 58,565
R299 44 Amend 6 or more established tolerances (e.g., decrease or increase); domestic or
import; submission of corresponding amended labels (requiring science re-
view). (3) (4)
13 285,261
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2073
February 25, 2019
(4) Amendment applications to add the revised use pattern(s) to registered product labels are covered by the base fee for the category. All
items in the covered application must be submitted together in one package. Each application for an additional new product registration
and new inert approval(s) that is submitted in the amendment application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. However, if an amendment application only proposes to register the amendment for a new product and there are
no amendments in the application, then review of one new product application is covered by the base fee. All such associated applications
that are submitted together will be subject to the category decision review time.
‘‘TABLE 4. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — NEW PRODUCTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R300 45 New product; or similar combination product (already registered) to an
identical or substantially similar in composition and use to a registered
product; registered source of active ingredient; no data review on acute
toxicity, efficacy or CRP – only product chemistry data; cite-all data cita-
tion, or selective data citation where applicant owns all required data, or
applicant submits specific authorization letter from data owner. Category
also includes 100% re-package of registered end-use or manufacturing-use
product that requires no data submission nor data matrix. (2)(3)
4 1,582
R301 46 New product; or similar combination product (already registered) to an
identical or substantially similar in composition and use to a registered
product; registered source of active ingredient; selective data citation
only for data on product chemistry and/or acute toxicity and/or public
health pest efficacy (identical data citation and claims to cited prod-
uct(s)), where applicant does not own all required data and does not have a
specific authorization letter from data owner. (2)(3)
4 1,897
R310 47 New end-use or manufacturing-use product with registered source(s) of ac-
tive ingredient(s); includes products containing two or more registered ac-
tive ingredients previously combined in other registered products; ex-
cludes products requiring or citing an animal safety study; requires review
of data package within RD only; includes data and/or waivers of data for
only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging and/or
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) - for up to 3 target pests. (2)(3)
7 7,301
R314 48 New end use product containing up to three registered active ingredients
never before registered as this combination in a formulated product; new
product label is identical or substantially similar to the labels of cur-
rently registered products which separately contain the respective compo-
nent active ingredients; excludes products requiring or citing an animal
safety study; requires review of data package within RD only; includes
data and/or waivers of data for only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging and/or
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) - for up to 3 target pests. (2)(3)
8 8,626
R319 49 New end use product containing up to three registered active ingredients
never before registered as this combination in a formulated product; new
product label is identical or substantially similar to the labels of cur-
rently registered products which separately contain the respective compo-
nent active ingredients; excludes products requiring or citing an animal
safety study; requires review of data package within RD only; includes
data and/or waivers of data for only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging and/or
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) - for 4 to 7 target pests. (2)(3)
10 12,626
R318 50
(new)
New end use product containing four or more registered active ingredients
never before registered as this combination in a formulated product; new
product label is identical or substantially similar to the labels of cur-
rently registered products which separately contain the respective compo-
nent active ingredients; excludes products requiring or citing an animal
safety study; requires review of data package within RD only; includes
data and/or waivers of data for only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging and/or
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) - for up to 3 target pests. (2)(3)
9 13,252
R321 51
(new)
New end use product containing four or more registered active ingredients
never before registered as this combination in a formulated product; new
product label is identical or substantially similar to the labels of cur-
rently registered products which separately contain the respective compo-
nent active ingredients; excludes products requiring or citing an animal
safety study; requires review of data package within RD only; includes
data and/or waivers of data for only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging and/or
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) - for 4 to 7 target pests. (2)(3)
11 17,252
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:10 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2074 February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 4. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — NEW PRODUCTS—Continued
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R315 52 New end-use, on-animal product, registered source of active ingredient(s),
with the submission of data and/or waivers for only:
∑ animal safety and
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) and/or
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging. (2) (3)
9 9,820
R316 53
(new)
New end-use or manufacturing product with registered source(s) of active
ingredient(s) including products containing two or more registered active
ingredients previously combined in other registered products; excludes
products requiring or citing an animal safety study; and requires review of
data and/or waivers for only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging and/or
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) - for greater than 3 and up to 7 target pests.
(2)(3)
9 11,301
R317 54
(new)
New end-use or manufacturing product with registered source(s) of active
ingredient(s) including products containing 2 or more registered active in-
gredients previously combined in other registered products; excludes prod-
ucts requiring or citing an animal safety study; and requires review of
data and/or waivers for only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging and/or
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) - for greater than 7 target pests. (2)(3)
10 15,301
R320 55 New product; new physical form; requires data review in science divisions.
(2)(3)
12 13,226
R331 56 New product; repack of identical registered end-use product as a manufac-
turing-use product, or identical registered manufacturing-use product as
an end use product; same registered uses only. (2)(3)
3 2,530
R332 57 New manufacturing-use product; registered active ingredient; unregistered
source of active ingredient; submission of completely new generic data
package; registered uses only; requires review in RD and science divisions.
(2)(3)
24 283,215
R333 58 New product; MUP or End use product with unregistered source of active in-
gredient; requires science data review; new physical form; etc. Cite-all or
selective data citation where applicant owns all required data. (2)(3)
10 19,838
R334 59 New product; MUP or End use product with unregistered source of the active
ingredient; requires science data review; new physical form; etc. Selective
data citation. (2)(3)
11 23,100
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) An application for a new end-use product using a source of active ingredient that (a) is not yet registered but (b) has an application
pending with the Agency for review, will be considered an application for a new product with an unregistered source of active ingredient.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
(4) For the purposes of classifying proposed registration actions into PRIA categories, ‘‘pest(s) requiring efficacy’’ are: public health pests
listed in PR Notice 2002-1, livestock pests (e.g. Horn flies, Stable flies), wood-destroying pests (e.g. termites, carpenter ants, wood-boring
beetles) and certain invasive species (e.g. Asian Longhorned beetle, Emerald Ashborer). This list may be updated/refined as invasive pest
needs arise. To determine the number of pests for the PRIA categories, pests have been placed into groups (general; e.g., cockroaches) and
pest specific (specifically a test species). If seeking a label claim against a pest group (general), use the group listing below and each group
will count as 1. The general pests groups are: mites, dust mites, chiggers, ticks, hard ticks, soft ticks, cattle ticks, scorpions, spiders,
centipedes, lice, fleas, cockroaches, keds, bot flies, screwworms, filth flies, blow flies, house flies, flesh flies, mosquitoes, biting flies, horse
flies, stable flies, deer flies, sand flies, biting midges, black flies, true bugs, bed bugs, stinging bees, wasps, yellow jackets, hornets, ants (ex-
cluding carpenter ants), fire and harvester ants, wood destroying beetles, carpenter ants, termites, subterranean termites, dry wood ter-
mites, arboreal termites, damp wood termites and invasive species. If seeking a claim against a specific pest without a general claim then
each specific pest will count as 1.
‘‘TABLE 5. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — AMENDMENTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision Review
Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R340 60 Amendment requiring data review within RD (e.g., changes to precautionary
label statements); includes adding/modifying pest(s) claims for up to 2 target
pests, excludes products requiring or citing an animal safety study. (2)(3)(4)
4 4,988
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:10 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2075
February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 5. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — AMENDMENTS—Continued
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision Review
Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R341 61
(New)
Amendment requiring data review within RD (e.g., changes to precautionary
label statements), includes adding/modifying pest(s) claims for greater than 2
target pests, excludes products requiring or citing an animal safety study.
(2)(3)(4)
6 5,988
R345 62 Amending on-animal products previously registered, with the submission of
data and/or waivers for only:
∑ animal safety and
∑ pest(s) requiring efficacy (4) and/or
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ child resistant packaging. (2)(3)
7 8,820
R350 63 Amendment requiring data review in science divisions (e.g., changes to REI, or
PPE, or PHI, or use rate, or number of applications; or add aerial application;
or modify GW/SW advisory statement). (2)(3)
9 13,226
R351 64 Amendment adding a new unregistered source of active ingredient. (2)(3) 8 13,226
R352 65 Amendment adding already approved uses; selective method of support; does
not apply if the applicant owns all cited data. (2) (3)
8 13,226
R371 66 Amendment to Experimental Use Permit; (does not include extending a per-
mit’s time period). (3)
6 10,090
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) (a) EPA-initiated amendments shall not be charged registration service fees. (b) Registrant-initiated fast-track amendments are to be
completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(c)(3)(B) and are not subject to registration service fees. (c) Registrant-initiated
fast-track amendments handled by the Antimicrobials Division are to be completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(h)
and are not subject to registration service fees. (d) Registrant initiated amendments submitted by notification under PR Notices, such as
PR Notice 98-10, continue under PR Notice timelines and are not subject to registration service fees. (e) Submissions with data and requir-
ing data review are subject to registration service fees.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
(4) For the purposes of classifying proposed registration actions into PRIA categories, ‘‘pest(s) requiring efficacy’’ are: public health pests
listed in PR Notice 2002-1, livestock pests (e.g. Horn flies, Stable flies), wood-destroying pests (e.g. termites, carpenter ants, wood-boring
beetles) and certain invasive species (e.g. Asian Longhorned beetle, Emerald Ashborer). This list may be updated/refined as invasive pest
needs arise. To determine the number of pests for the PRIA categories, pests have been placed into groups (general; e.g., cockroaches) and
pest specific (specifically a test species). If seeking a label claim against a pest group (general), use the group listing below and each group
will count as 1. The general pests groups are: mites, dust mites, chiggers, ticks, hard ticks, soft ticks, cattle ticks, scorpions, spiders,
centipedes, lice, fleas, cockroaches, keds, bot flies, screwworms, filth flies, blow flies, house flies, flesh flies, mosquitoes, biting flies, horse
flies, stable flies, deer flies, sand flies, biting midges, black flies, true bugs, bed bugs, stinging bees, wasps, yellow jackets, hornets, ants (ex-
cluding carpenter ants), fire and harvester ants, wood destroying beetles, carpenter ants, termites, subterranean termites, dry wood ter-
mites, arboreal termites, damp wood termites and invasive species. If seeking a claim against a specific pest without a general claim then
each specific pest will count as 1.
‘‘TABLE 6. — REGISTRATION DIVISION — OTHER ACTIONS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision Review
Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
R124 67 Conditional Ruling on Pre-application Study Waivers; applicant-initiated. 6 2,530
R272 68 Review of Study Protocol applicant-initiated; excludes DART, pre-registration
conference, Rapid Response review, DNT protocol review, protocol needing
HSRB review.
3 2,530
R275 69 Rebuttal of agency reviewed protocol, applicant initiated. 3 2,530
R370 70 Cancer reassessment; applicant-initiated. 18 198,250
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
‘‘TABLE 7. — ANTIMICROBIALS DIVISION — NEW ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
A380 71 New Active Ingredient; Indirect Food use; establish tolerance or tolerance ex-
emption if required. (2)(3)
24 137,841
A390 72 New Active Ingredient; Direct Food use; establish tolerance or tolerance ex-
emption if required. (2)(3)
24 229,733
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2076 February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 7. — ANTIMICROBIALS DIVISION — NEW ACTIVE INGREDIENTS—Continued
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
A410 73 New Active Ingredient Non-food use.(2)(3) 21 229,733
A431 74 New Active Ingredient, Non-food use; low-risk. (2)(3) 12 80,225
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 8. — ANTIMICROBIALS DIVISION — NEW USES
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
A440 75 New Use, Indirect Food Use, establish tolerance or tolerance exemption.
(2)(3)(4)
21 31,910
A441 76 Additional Indirect food uses; establish tolerances or tolerance exemptions if
required; 6 or more submitted in one application. (3)(4)(5)
21 114,870
A450 77 New use, Direct food use, establish tolerance or tolerance exemption. (2)(3)(4) 21 95,724
A451 78 Additional Direct food uses; establish tolerances or tolerance exemptions if re-
quired; 6 or more submitted in one application. (3)(4)(5)
21 182,335
A500 79 New use, non-food. (4)(5) 12 31,910
A501 80 New use, non-food; 6 or more submitted in one application. (4)(5) 15 76,583
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
(3) If EPA data rules are amended to newly require clearance under section 408 of the FFDCA for an ingredient of an antimicrobial product
where such ingredient was not previously subject to such a clearance, then review of the data for such clearance of such product is not sub-
ject to a registration service fee for the tolerance action for two years from the effective date of the rule.
(4) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2077
February 25, 2019
(5) Amendment applications to add the new use(s) to registered product labels are covered by the base fee for the new use(s). All items in
the covered application must be submitted together in one package. Each application for an additional new product registration and new
inert approval(s) that is submitted in the new use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new product or a new
inert approval. However, if a new use application only proposes to register the new use for a new product and there are no amendments in
the application, then review of one new product application is covered by the new use fee. All such associated applications that are sub-
mitted together will be subject to the new use decision review time. Any application for a new product or an amendment to the proposed la-
beling (a) submitted subsequent to submission of the new use application and (b) prior to conclusion of its decision review time and (c) con-
taining the same new uses, will be deemed a separate new-use application, subject to a separate registration service fee and new decision re-
view time for a new use. If the new-use application includes non-food (indoor and/or outdoor), and food (outdoor and/or indoor) uses, the ap-
propriate fee is due for each type of new use and the longest decision review time applies to all of the new uses requested in the application.
Any information that (a) was neither requested nor required by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initia-
tive to support the application after completion of the technical deficiency screen, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application,
must be assessed 25% of the full registration service fee for the new use application.
‘‘TABLE 9. — ANTIMICROBIALS DIVISION — NEW PRODUCTS AND AMENDMENTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
A530 81 New product, identical or substantially similar in composition and use to a reg-
istered product; no data review or only product chemistry data; cite all data
citation or selective data citation where applicant owns all required data; or
applicant submits specific authorization letter from data owner. Category
also includes 100% re-package of registered end-use or manufacturing use
product that requires no data submission nor data matrix. (2)(3)
4 1,278
A531 82 New product; identical or substantially similar in composition and use to a reg-
istered product; registered source of active ingredient: selective data citation
only for data on product chemistry and/or acute toxicity and/or public health
pest efficacy, where applicant does not own all required data and does not
have a specific authorization letter from data owner. (2)(3)
4 1,824
A532 83 New product; identical or substantially similar in composition and use to a reg-
istered product; registered active ingredient; unregistered source of active in-
gredient; cite-all data citation except for product chemistry; product chem-
istry data submitted. (2)(3)
5 5,107
A540 84 New end use product; FIFRA §2(mm) uses only; up to 25 public health orga-
nisms. (2)(3)(5)(6)
5 5,107
A541 85
(new)
New end use product; FIFRA §2(mm) uses only; 26-50 public health organisms.
(2)(3)(5)(6)
7 8,500
A542 86
(new)
New end use product; FIFRA §2(mm) uses only; ≥ 51 public health organisms.
(2)(3)(5)
10 15,000
A550 87 New end-use product; uses other than FIFRA §2(mm); non-FQPA product.
(2)(3)(5)
9 13,226
A560 88 New manufacturing use product; registered active ingredient; selective data ci-
tation. (2)(3)
6 12,596
A565 89
(new)
New manufacturing-use product; registered active ingredient; unregistered
source of active ingredient; submission of new generic data package; reg-
istered uses only; requires science review. (2)(3)
12 18,234
A570 90 Label amendment requiring data review; up to 25 public health organisms.
(3)(4)(5)(6)
4 3,831
A573 91
(new)
Label amendment requiring data review; 26-50 public health organisms.
(2)(3)(5)(7)
6 6,350
A574 92
(new)
Label amendment requiring data review; ≥ 51 public health organisms.
(2)(3)(5)(7)
9 11,000
A572 93 New Product or amendment requiring data review for risk assessment by
Science Branch (e.g., changes to REI, or PPE, or use rate). (2)(3)(4)
9 13,226
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) An application for a new end-use product using a source of active ingredient that (a) is not yet registered but (b) has an application
pending with the Agency for review, will be considered an application for a new product with an unregistered source of active ingredient.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
(4)(a) EPA-initiated amendments shall not be charged registration service fees. (b) Registrant-initiated fast-track amendments are to be
completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(c)(3)(B) and are not subject to registration service fees. (c) Registrant-initiated
fast-track amendments handled by the Antimicrobials Division are to be completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(h)
and are not subject to registration service fees. (d) Registrant initiated amendments submitted by notification under PR Notices, such as
PR Notice 98–10, continue under PR Notice timelines and are not subject to registration service fees. (e) Submissions with data and requir-
ing data review are subject to registration service fees.
(5) The applicant must identify the substantially similar product if opting to use cite-all or the selective method to support acute toxicity
data requirements.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2078 February 25, 2019
(6) Once a submission for a new product with public health organisms has been submitted and classified in either A540 or A541, additional
organisms submitted for the same product before expiration of the first submission’s original decision review time period will result in re-
classification of both the original and subsequent submission into the appropriate new category based on the sum of the number of orga-
nisms in both submissions. A reclassification would result in a new PRIA start date and require additional fees to meet the fee of the new
category.
(7) Once a submission for a label amendment with public health organisms has been submitted and classified in either A570 or A573, addi-
tional organisms submitted for the same product before expiration of the first submission’s original decision review time period will result
in reclassification of both the original and subsequent submission into the appropriate new category based on the sum of the number of or-
ganisms in both submissions. A reclassification would result in a new PRIA start date and require additional fees to meet the fee of the new
category.
‘‘TABLE 10. — ANTIMICROBIALS DIVISION — EXPERIMENTAL USE PERMITS AND OTHER ACTIONS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
A520 94 Experimental Use Permit application, non-food use. (2) 9 6,383
A521 95 Review of public health efficacy study protocol within AD, per AD Internal
Guidance for the Efficacy Protocol Review Process; Code will also include re-
view of public health efficacy study protocol and data review for devices
making pesticidal claims; applicant-initiated; Tier 1.
4 4,726
A522 96 Review of public health efficacy study protocol outside AD by members of AD
Efficacy Protocol Review Expert Panel; Code will also include review of pub-
lic health efficacy study protocol and data review for devices making pes-
ticidal claims; applicant-initiated; Tier 2.
12 12,156
A537 97
(new)
New Active Ingredient/New Use, Experimental Use Permit application; Direct
food use; Establish tolerance or tolerance exemption if required. Credit 45%
of fee toward new active ingredient/new use application that follows.
18 153,156
A538 98
(new)
New Active Ingredient/New Use, Experimental Use Permit application; Indirect
food use; Establish tolerance or tolerance exemption if required Credit 45% of
fee toward new active ingredient/new use application that follows.
18 95,724
A539 99
(new)
New Active Ingredient/New Use, Experimental Use Permit application; Nonfood
use. Credit 45% of fee toward new active ingredient/new use application that
follows.
15 92,163
A529 100 Amendment to Experimental Use Permit; requires data review or risk assess-
ment. (2)
9 11,429
A523 101 Review of protocol other than a public health efficacy study (i.e., Toxicology or
Exposure Protocols).
9 12,156
A571 102 Science reassessment: Cancer risk, refined ecological risk, and/or endangered
species; applicant-initiated.
18 95,724
A533 103
(new)
Exemption from the requirement of an Experimental Use Permit. (2) 4 2,482
A534 104
(new)
Rebuttal of agency reviewed protocol, applicant initiated. 4 4,726
A535 105
(new)
Conditional Ruling on Pre-application Study Waiver or Data Bridging Argu-
ment; applicant-initiated.
6 2,409
A536 106
(new)
Conditional Ruling on Pre-application Direct Food, Indirect Food, Nonfood use
determination; applicant-initiated.
4 2,482
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 11. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — NEW ACTIVE INGREDIENTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B580 107 New active ingredient; food use; petition to establish a tolerance. (2)(3) 20 51,053
B590 108 New active ingredient; food use; petition to establish a tolerance exemption.
(2)(3)
18 31,910
B600 109 New active ingredient; non-food use. (2)(3) 13 19,146
B610 110 New active ingredient; Experimental Use Permit application; petition to estab-
lish a temporary tolerance or temporary tolerance exemption. (3)
10 12,764
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2079
February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 11. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — NEW ACTIVE INGREDIENTS—Continued
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B611 111 New active ingredient; Experimental Use Permit application; petition to estab-
lish permanent tolerance exemption. (3)
12 12,764
B612 112 New active ingredient; no change to a permanent tolerance exemption. (2)(3) 10 17,550
B613 113 New active ingredient; petition to convert a temporary tolerance or a tem-
porary tolerance exemption to a permanent tolerance or tolerance exemp-
tion. (2)(3)
11 17,550
B620 114 New active ingredient; Experimental Use Permit application; non-food use in-
cluding crop destruct. (3)
7 6,383
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 12. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — NEW USES
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B630 115 First food use; petition to establish a tolerance exemption. (2)(4) 13 12,764
B631 116 New food use; petition to amend an established tolerance. (3)(4) 12 12,764
B640 117 First food use; petition to establish a tolerance. (2)(4) 19 19,146
B643 118 New Food use; petition to amend an established tolerance exemption. (3)(4) 10 12,764
B642 119 First food use; indoor; food/food handling. (2)(4) 12 31,910
B644 120 New use, no change to an established tolerance or tolerance exemption. (3)(4) 8 12,764
B650 121 New use; non-food. (3)(4) 7 6,383
B645 122
(new)
New food use; Experimental Use Permit application; petition to amend or add a
tolerance exemption. (4)
12 12,764
B646 123
(new)
New use; non-food use including crop destruct; Experimental Use Permit appli-
cation. (4)
7 6,383
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2080 February 25, 2019
(3) Amendment applications to add the new use(s) to registered product labels are covered by the base fee for the new use(s). All items in
the covered application must be submitted together in one package. Each application for an additional new product registration and new
inert approval(s) that is submitted in the new use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new product or a new
inert approval. However, if a new use application only proposes to register the new use for a new product and there are no amendments in
the application, then review of one new product application is covered by the new use fee. All such associated applications that are sub-
mitted together will be subject to the new use decision review time. Any application for a new product or an amendment to the proposed la-
beling (a) submitted subsequent to submission of the new use application and (b) prior to conclusion of its decision review time and (c) con-
taining the same new uses, will be deemed a separate new-use application, subject to a separate registration service fee and new decision re-
view time for a new use. If the new-use application includes non-food (indoor and/or outdoor), and food (outdoor and/or indoor) uses, the ap-
propriate fee is due for each type of new use and the longest decision review time applies to all of the new uses requested in the application.
Any information that (a) was neither requested nor required by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initia-
tive to support the application after completion of the technical deficiency screen, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application,
must be assessed 25% of the full registration service fee for the new use application.
(4) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 13. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — NEW PRODUCTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B652 124 New product; registered source of active ingredient; requires petition to amend
established tolerance or tolerance exemption; requires 1) submission of prod-
uct specific data; or 2) citation of previously reviewed and accepted data; or
3) submission or citation of data generated at government expense; or 4) sub-
mission or citation of scientifically-sound rationale based on publicly avail-
able literature or other relevant information that addresses the data require-
ment; or 5) submission of a request for a data requirement to be waived sup-
ported by a scientifically-sound rationale explaining why the data require-
ment does not apply. (2)(3)
13 12,764
B660 125 New product; registered source of active ingredient(s); identical or substan-
tially similar in composition and use to a registered product. No data review,
or only product chemistry data; cite-all data citation, or selective data cita-
tion where applicant owns all required data or authorization from data owner
is demonstrated. Category includes 100% re-package of registered end-use or
manufacturing-use product that requires no data submission or data matrix.
For microbial pesticides, the active ingredient(s) must not be re-isolated.
(2)(3)
4 1,278
B670 126 New product; registered source of active ingredient(s); requires: 1) submission
of product specific data; or 2) citation of previously reviewed and accepted
data; or 3) submission or citation of data generated at government expense;
or 4) submission or citation of a scientifically-sound rationale based on pub-
licly available literature or other relevant information that addresses the
data requirement; or 5) submission of a request for a data requirement to be
waived supported by a scientifically-sound rationale explaining why the data
requirement does not apply. (2)(3)
7 5,107
B671 127 New product; unregistered source of active ingredient(s); requires a petition to
amend an established tolerance or tolerance exemption; requires: 1) submis-
sion of product specific data; or 2) citation of previously reviewed and accept-
ed data; or 3) submission or citation of data generated at government ex-
pense; or 4) submission or citation of a scientifically-sound rationale based on
publicly available literature or other relevant information that addresses the
data requirement; or 5) submission of a request for a data requirement to be
waived supported by a scientifically-sound rationale explaining why the data
requirement does not apply. (2)(3)
17 12,764
B672 128 New product; unregistered source of active ingredient(s); non-food use or food
use requires: 1) submission of product specific data; or 2) citation of pre-
viously reviewed and accepted data; or 3) submission or citation of data gen-
erated at government expense; or 4) submission or citation of a scientifically-
sound rationale based on publicly available literature or other relevant infor-
mation that addresses the data requirement; or 5) submission of a request for
a data requirement to be waived supported by a scientifically-sound rationale
explaining why the data requirement does not apply. (2)(3)
13 9,118
B673 129 New product MUP/EP; unregistered source of active ingredient(s); citation of
Technical Grade Active Ingredient (TGAI) data previously reviewed and ac-
cepted by the Agency. Requires an Agency determination that the cited data
supports the new product. (2)(3)
10 5,107
B674 130 New product MUP; Repack of identical registered end-use product as a manu-
facturing-use product; same registered uses only. (2)(3)
4 1,278
B675 131 New Product MUP; registered source of active ingredient; submission of com-
pletely new generic data package; registered uses only. (2)(3)
10 9,118
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2081
February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 13. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — NEW PRODUCTS—Continued
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B676 132 New product; more than one active ingredient where one active ingredient is an
unregistered source; product chemistry data must be submitted; requires: 1)
submission of product specific data, and 2) citation of previously reviewed
and accepted data; or 3) submission or citation of data generated at govern-
ment expense; or 4) submission or citation of a scientifically-sound rationale
based on publicly available literature or other relevant information that ad-
dresses the data requirement; or 5) submission of a request for a data require-
ment to be waived supported by a scientifically-sound rationale explaining
why the data requirement does not apply. (2)(3)
13 9,118
B677 133 New end-use non-food animal product with submission of two or more target
animal safety studies; includes data and/or waivers of data for only:
∑ product chemistry and/or
∑ acute toxicity and/or
∑ public health pest efficacy and/or
∑ animal safety studies and/or
∑ child resistant packaging. (2)(3)
10 8,820
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) An application for a new end-use product using a source of active ingredient that (a) is not yet registered but (b) has an application
pending with the Agency for review, will be considered an application for a new product with an unregistered source of active ingredient.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 14. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — AMENDMENTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B621 134 Amendment; Experimental Use Permit; no change to an established temporary
tolerance or tolerance exemption. (3)
7 5,107
B622 135 Amendment; Experimental Use Permit; petition to amend an established or
temporary tolerance or tolerance exemption. (3)
11 12,764
B641 136 Amendment of an established tolerance or tolerance exemption. 13 12,764
B680 137 Amendment; registered sources of active ingredient(s); no new use(s); no
changes to an established tolerance or tolerance exemption. Requires data
submission. (2)(3)
5 5,107
B681 138 Amendment; unregistered source of active ingredient(s). Requires data submis-
sion. (2)(3)
7 6,079
B683 139 Label amendment; requires review/update of previous risk assessment(s) with-
out data submission (e.g., labeling changes to REI, PPE, PHI). (2)(3)
6 5,107
B684 140 Amending non-food animal product that includes submission of target animal
safety data; previously registered. (2)(3)
8 8,820
B685 141
(new)
Amendment; add a new biochemical unregistered source of active ingredient or
a new microbial production site. Requires submission of analysis of samples
data and source/production site-specific manufacturing process description.
(3)
5 5,107
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) (a) EPA-initiated amendments shall not be charged registration service fees. (b) Registrant-initiated fast-track amendments are to be
completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(c)(3)(B) and are not subject to registration service fees. (c) Registrant-initiated
fast-track amendments handled by the Antimicrobials Division are to be completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(h)
and are not subject to registration service fees. (d) Registrant initiated amendments submitted by notification under PR Notices, such as
PR Notice 98-10, continue under PR Notice timelines and are not subject to registration service fees. (e) Submissions with data and requir-
ing data review are subject to registration service fees.
(3) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2082 February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 15. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — SCLP
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B690 142 New active ingredient; food or non-food use. (2)(6) 7 2,554
B700 143 Experimental Use Permit application; new active ingredient or new use. (6) 7 1,278
B701 144 Extend or amend Experimental Use Permit. (6) 4 1,278
B710 145 New product; registered source of active ingredient(s); identical or substan-
tially similar in composition and use to a registered product; no change in an
established tolerance or tolerance exemption. No data review, or only prod-
uct chemistry data; cite-all data citation, or selective data citation where
applicant owns all required data or authorization from data owner is dem-
onstrated. Category includes 100% re-package of registered end-use or manu-
facturing-use product that requires no data submission or data matrix. (3)(6)
4 1,278
B720 146 New product; registered source of active ingredient(s); requires: 1) submission
of product specific data; or 2) citation of previously reviewed and accepted
data; or 3) submission or citation of data generated at government expense;
or 4) submission or citation of a scientifically-sound rationale based on pub-
licly available literature or other relevant information that addresses the
data requirement; or 5) submission of a request for a data requirement to be
waived supported by a scientifically-sound rationale explaining why the data
requirement does not apply. (3)(6)
5 1,278
B721 147 New product; unregistered source of active ingredient. (3)(6) 7 2,676
B722 148 New use and/or amendment; petition to establish a tolerance or tolerance ex-
emption. (4)(5)(6)
7 2,477
B730 149 Label amendment requiring data submission. (4)(6) 5 1,278
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) All requests for new uses (food and/or nonfood) contained in any application for a new active ingredient or a first food use are covered
by the base fee for that new active ingredient or first food use application and retain the same decision time review period as the new active
ingredient or first food use application. The application must be received by the agency in one package. The base fee for the category covers
a maximum of five new products. Each application for an additional new product registration and new inert approval that is submitted in
the new active ingredient application package or first food use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new prod-
uct or a new inert approval. All such associated applications that are submitted together will be subject to the new active ingredient or first
food use decision review time. In the case of a new active ingredient application, until that new active ingredient is approved, any subse-
quent application for another new product containing the same active ingredient or an amendment to the proposed labeling will be deemed
a new active ingredient application, subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a new active ingredient. In the case
of a first food use application, until that first food use is approved, any subsequent application for an additional new food use or uses will be
subject to the registration service fee and decision review time for a first food use. Any information that (a) was neither requested nor re-
quired by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initiative to support the application after completion of the
technical deficiency screening, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application, must be assessed 25% of the full registration service
fee for the new active ingredient or first food use application.
(3) An application for a new end-use product using a source of active ingredient that (a) is not yet registered but (b) has an application
pending with the Agency for review, will be considered an application for a new product with an unregistered source of active ingredient.
(4) (a) EPA-initiated amendments shall not be charged registration service fees. (b) Registrant-initiated fast-track amendments are to be
completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(c)(3)(B) and are not subject to registration service fees. (c) Registrant-initiated
fast-track amendments handled by the Antimicrobials Division are to be completed within the timelines specified in FIFRA Section 3(h)
and are not subject to registration service fees. (d) Registrant initiated amendments submitted by notification under PR Notices, such as
PR Notice 98-10, continue under PR Notice timelines and are not subject to registration service fees. (e) Submissions with data and requir-
ing data review are subject to registration service fees.
(5) Amendment applications to add the new use(s) to registered product labels are covered by the base fee for the new use(s). All items in
the covered application must be submitted together in one package. Each application for an additional new product registration and new
inert approval(s) that is submitted in the new use application package is subject to the registration service fee for a new product or a new
inert approval. However, if a new use application only proposes to register the new use for a new product and there are no amendments in
the application, then review of one new product application is covered by the new use fee. All such associated applications that are sub-
mitted together will be subject to the new use decision review time. Any application for a new product or an amendment to the proposed la-
beling (a) submitted subsequent to submission of the new use application and (b) prior to conclusion of its decision review time and (c) con-
taining the same new uses, will be deemed a separate new-use application, subject to a separate registration service fee and new decision re-
view time for a new use. If the new-use application includes non-food (indoor and/or outdoor), and food (outdoor and/or indoor) uses, the ap-
propriate fee is due for each type of new use and the longest decision review time applies to all of the new uses requested in the application.
Any information that (a) was neither requested nor required by the Agency, and (b) is submitted by the applicant at the applicant’s initia-
tive to support the application after completion of the technical deficiency screen, and (c) is not itself a covered registration application,
must be assessed 25% of the full registration service fee for the new use application.
(6) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 16. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — OTHER ACTIONS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B614 150 Pre-application; Conditional Ruling on rationales for addressing a data require-
ment in lieu of data; applicant-initiated; applies to one rationale at a time.
3 2,530
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2083
February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 16. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — OTHER ACTIONS—Continued
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B615 151 Rebuttal of agency reviewed protocol, applicant initiated. 3 2,530
B682 152 Protocol review; applicant initiated; excludes time for HSRB review. 3 2,432
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
‘‘TABLE 17. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — PIP
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B740 153 Experimental Use Permit application; no petition for tolerance/tolerance ex-
emption. Includes:
1. non-food/feed use(s) for a new (2) or registered (3) PIP (12);
2. food/feed use(s) for a new or registered PIP with crop destruct (12);
3. food/feed use(s) for a new or registered PIP in which an established tolerance/
tolerance exemption exists for the intended use(s). (4)(12)
6 95,724
B741 154
(new)
Experimental Use Permit application; no petition for tolerance/tolerance ex-
emption. Includes:
1. non-food/feed use(s) for a new (2) or registered (3) PIP;
2. food/feed use(s) for a new or registered PIP with crop destruct;
3. food/feed use(s) for a new or registered PIP in which an established tolerance/
tolerance exemption exists for the intended use(s);
SAP Review. (12)
12 159,538
B750 155 Experimental Use Permit application; with a petition to establish a temporary
or permanent tolerance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient. In-
cludes new food/feed use for a registered (3) PIP. (4)(12)
9 127,630
B770 156 Experimental Use Permit application; new (2) PIP; with petition to establish a
temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient; credit
75% of B771 fee toward registration application for a new active ingredient
that follows; SAP review. (5)(12)
15 191,444
B771 157 Experimental Use Permit application; new (2) PIP; with petition to establish a
temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient; credit
75% of B771 fee toward registration application for a new active ingredient
that follows. (12)
10 127,630
B772 158 Application to amend or extend an Experimental Use Permit; no petition since
the established tolerance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient is un-
affected. (12)
3 12,764
B773 159 Application to amend or extend an Experimental Use Permit; with petition to
extend a temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient.
(12)
5 31,910
B780 160 Registration application; new (2) PIP; non-food/feed. (12) 12 159,537
B790 161 Registration application; new (2) PIP; non-food/feed; SAP review. (5)(12) 18 223,351
B800 162 Registration application; new (2) PIP; with petition to establish permanent tol-
erance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient based on an existing
temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption. (12)
13 172,300
B810 163 Registration application; new (2) PIP; with petition to establish permanent tol-
erance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient based on an existing
temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption. SAP review. (5)(12)
19 236,114
B820 164 Registration application; new (2) PIP; with petition to establish or amend a
permanent tolerance/tolerance exemption of an active ingredient. (12)
15 204,208
B840 165 Registration application; new (2) PIP; with petition to establish or amend a
permanent tolerance/tolerance exemption of an active ingredient. SAP re-
view. (5)(12)
21 268,022
B851 166 Registration application; new event of a previously registered PIP active ingre-
dient(s); no petition since permanent tolerance/tolerance exemption is al-
ready established for the active ingredient(s). (12)
9 127,630
B870 167 Registration application; registered (3) PIP; new product; new use; no petition
since a permanent tolerance/tolerance exemption is already established for
the active ingredient(s). (4) (12)
9 38,290
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2084 February 25, 2019
‘‘TABLE 17. — BIOPESTICIDES DIVISION — PIP—Continued
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
B880 168 Registration application; registered (3) PIP; new product or new terms of reg-
istration; additional data submitted; no petition since a permanent tolerance/
tolerance exemption is already established for the active ingredient(s). (6) (7)
(12)
9 31,910
B881 169 Registration application; registered (3) PIP; new product or new terms of reg-
istration; additional data submitted; no petition since a permanent tolerance/
tolerance exemption is already established for the active ingredient(s). SAP
review. (5)(6)(7)(12)
15 95,724
B882 170
(new)
Registration application; new (2) PIP, seed increase with negotiated acreage
cap and time-limited registration; with petition to establish a permanent tol-
erance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient based on an existing
temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption; SAP Review. (8)(12)
15 191,444
B883 171 Registration application; new (2) PIP, seed increase with negotiated acreage
cap and time-limited registration; with petition to establish a permanent tol-
erance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient based on an existing
temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption. (8) (12)
9 127,630
B884 172 Registration application; new (2) PIP, seed increase with negotiated acreage
cap and time-limited registration; with petition to establish a permanent tol-
erance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient. (8)(12)
12 159,537
B885 173 Registration application; registered (3) PIP, seed increase; breeding stack of
previously approved PIPs, same crop; no petition since a permanent toler-
ance/tolerance exemption is already established for the active ingredient(s).
(9)(12)
6 31,910
B886 174
(new)
Registration application; new (2) PIP, seed increase with negotiated acreage
cap and time-limited registration; with petition to establish a permanent tol-
erance/tolerance exemption for the active ingredient. SAP Review. (8) (12)
18 223,351
B890 175 Application to amend a seed increase registration; converts registration to
commercial registration; no petition since permanent tolerance/tolerance ex-
emption is already established for the active ingredient(s). (12)
9 63,816
B891 176 Application to amend a seed increase registration; converts registration to a
commercial registration; no petition since a permanent tolerance/tolerance
exemption already established for the active ingredient(s); SAP review. (5)(12)
15 127,630
B900 177 Application to amend a registration, including actions such as extending an ex-
piration date, modifying an IRM plan, or adding an insect to be controlled.
(10)(11)(12)
6 12,764
B901 178 Application to amend a registration, including actions such as extending an ex-
piration date, modifying an IRM plan, or adding an insect to be controlled.
SAP review. (10) (11) (12)
12 76,578
B902 179 PIP Protocol review. 3 6,383
B903 180 Inert ingredient tolerance exemption; e.g., a marker such as NPT II; reviewed
in BPPD.
6 63,816
B904 181 Import tolerance or tolerance exemption; processed commodities/food only
(inert or active ingredient).
9 127,630
B905 182
(new)
SAP Review. 6 63,816
B906 183
(new)
Petition to establish a temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption for one or
more active ingredients.
3 31,907
B907 184
(new)
Petition to establish a temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption for one or
more active ingredients based on an existing temporary tolerance/tolerance
exemption.
3 12,764
B908 185
(new)
Petition to establish a temporary tolerance/tolerance exemption for one or
more active ingredients or inert ingredients.
3 44,671
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) New PIP = a PIP with an active ingredient that has not been registered.
(3) Registered PIP = a PIP with an active ingredient that is currently registered.
(4) Transfer registered PIP through conventional breeding for new food/feed use, such as from field corn to sweet corn.
(5) The scientific data involved in this category are complex. EPA often seeks technical advice from the Scientific Advisory Panel on risks
that pesticides pose to wildlife, farm workers, pesticide applicators, non-target species, as well as insect resistance, and novel scientific
issues surrounding new technologies. The scientists of the SAP neither make nor recommend policy decisions. They provide advice on the
science used to make these decisions. Their advice is invaluable to the EPA as it strives to protect humans and the environment from risks
posed by pesticides. Due to the time it takes to schedule and prepare for meetings with the SAP, additional time and costs are needed.
(6) Registered PIPs stacked through conventional breeding.
(7) Deployment of a registered PIP with a different IRM plan (e.g., seed blend).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2085
February 25, 2019
(8) The negotiated acreage cap will depend upon EPA’s determination of the potential environmental exposure, risk(s) to non-target orga-
nisms, and the risk of targeted pest developing resistance to the pesticidal substance. The uncertainty of these risks may reduce the allow-
able acreage, based upon the quantity and type of non-target organism data submitted and the lack of insect resistance management data,
which is usually not required for seed-increase registrations. Registrants are encouraged to consult with EPA prior to submission of a reg-
istration application in this category.
(9) Application can be submitted prior to or concurrently with an application for commercial registration.
(10) For example, IRM plan modifications that are applicant-initiated.
(11) EPA-initiated amendments shall not be charged fees.
(12) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
‘‘TABLE 18. — INERT INGREDIENTS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
I001 186 Approval of new food use inert ingredient. (2)(3) 13 27,000
I002 187 Amend currently approved inert ingredient tolerance or exemption from toler-
ance; new data. (2)
11 7,500
I003 188 Amend currently approved inert ingredient tolerance or exemption from toler-
ance; no new data. (2)
9 3,308
I004 189 Approval of new non-food use inert ingredient. (2) 6 11,025
I005 190 Amend currently approved non-food use inert ingredient with new use pattern;
new data. (2)
6 5,513
I006 191 Amend currently approved non-food use inert ingredient with new use pattern;
no new data. (2)
3 3,308
I007 192 Approval of substantially similar non-food use inert ingredients when original
inert is compositionally similar with similar use pattern. (2)
4 1,654
I008 193 Approval of new or amended polymer inert ingredient, food use. (2) 5 3,749
I009 194 Approval of new or amended polymer inert ingredient, non-food use. (2) 4 3,087
I010 195 Petition to amend a single tolerance exemption descriptor, or single non-food
use descriptor, to add ≤ 10 CASRNs; no new data. (2)
6 1,654
I011 196
(new)
Approval of new food use safener with tolerance or exemption from tolerance.
(2)(8)
24 597,683
I012 197
(new)
Approval of new non-food use safener. (2)(8) 21 415,241
I013 198
(new)
Approval of additional food use for previously approved safener with tolerance
or exemption from tolerance. (2)
15 62,975
I014 199
(new)
Approval of additional non-food use for previously approved safener. (2) 15 25,168
I015 200
(new)
Approval of new generic data for previously approved food use safener. (2) 24 269,728
I016 201
(new)
Approval of amendment(s) to tolerance and label for previously approved
safener. (2)
13 55,776
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) If another covered application is submitted that depends upon an application to approve an inert ingredient, each application will be
subject to its respective registration service fee. The decision review time line for both submissions will be the longest of the associated ap-
plications. If the application covers multiple ingredients grouped by EPA into one chemical class, a single registration service fee will be
assessed for approval of those ingredients.
(3) If EPA data rules are amended to newly require clearance under section 408 of the FFDCA for an ingredient of an antimicrobial product
where such ingredient was not previously subject to such a clearance, then review of the data for such clearance of such product is not sub-
ject to a registration service fee for the tolerance action for two years from the effective date of the rule.
(4) Any other covered application that is associated with and dependent on the HSRB review will be subject to its separate registration
service fee. The decision review times for the associated actions run concurrently, but will end at the date of the latest review time.
(5) Any other covered application that is associated with and dependent on the SAP review will be subject to its separate registration
service fee. The decision review time for the associated action will be extended by the decision review time for the SAP review.
(6) An application for a new end-use product using a source of active ingredient that (a) is not yet registered but (b) has an application
pending with the Agency for review, will be considered an application for a new product with an unregistered source of active ingredient.
(7) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2086 February 25, 2019
(8) If a new safener is submitted in the same package as a new active ingredient, and that new active ingredient is determined to be re-
duced risk, then the safener would get the same reduced timeframe as the new active ingredient.
‘‘TABLE 19. — EXTERNAL REVIEW AND MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS
EPA
No.
New
CR
No.
Action
Decision
Review Time
(Months)(1)
Registration
Service Fee
($)
M001 202 Study protocol requiring Human Studies Review Board review as defined in 40
CFR Part 26 in support of an active ingredient. (4)
9 7,938
M002 203 Completed study requiring Human Studies Review Board review as defined in 40
CFR Part 26 in support of an active ingredient. (4)
9 7,938
M003 204 External technical peer review of new active ingredient, product, or amend-
ment (e.g., consultation with FIFRA Scientific Advisory Panel) for an action
with a decision timeframe of less than 12 months. Applicant initiated request
based on a requirement of the Administrator, as defined by FIFRA § 25(d), in
support of a novel active ingredient, or unique use pattern or application
technology. Excludes PIP active ingredients. (5)
12 63,945
M004 205 External technical peer review of new active ingredient, product, or amend-
ment (e.g., consultation with FIFRA Scientific Advisory Panel) for an action
with a decision timeframe of greater than 12 months. Applicant initiated re-
quest based on a requirement of the Administrator, as defined by FIFRA §
25(d), in support of a novel active ingredient, or unique use pattern or appli-
cation technology. Excludes PIP active ingredients. (5)
18 63,945
M005 206 New Product: Combination, Contains a combination of active ingredients from
a registered and/or unregistered source; conventional, antimicrobial and/or
biopesticide. Requires coordination with other regulatory divisions to con-
duct review of data, label and/or verify the validity of existing data as cited.
Only existing uses for each active ingredient in the combination product.
(6)(7)
9 22,050
M006 207 Request for up to 5 letters of certification (Gold Seal) for one actively reg-
istered product (excludes distributor products). (8)
1 277
M007 208 Request to extend Exclusive Use of data as provided by FIFRA Section
3(c)(1)(F)(ii).
12 5,513
M008 209 Request to grant Exclusive Use of data as provided by FIFRA Section
3(c)(1)(F)(vi) for a minor use, when a FIFRA Section 2(ll)(2) determination is
required.
15 1,654
M009 210
(new)
Non-FIFRA Regulated Determination: Applicant initiated, per product. 4 2,363
M010 211
(new)
Conditional ruling on pre-application, product substantial similarity. 4 2,363
M011 212
(new)
Label amendment to add the DfE logo; requires data review; no other label
changes. (9)
4 3,648
(1) A decision review time that would otherwise end on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, will be extended to end on the next busi-
ness day.
(2) If another covered application is submitted that depends upon an application to approve an inert ingredient, each application will be
subject to its respective registration service fee. The decision review time line for both submissions will be the longest of the associated ap-
plications. If the application covers multiple ingredients grouped by EPA into one chemical class, a single registration service fee will be
assessed for approval of those ingredients.
(3) If EPA data rules are amended to newly require clearance under section 408 of the FFDCA for an ingredient of an antimicrobial product
where such ingredient was not previously subject to such a clearance, then review of the data for such clearance of such product is not sub-
ject to a registration service fee for the tolerance action for two years from the effective date of the rule.
(4) Any other covered application that is associated with and dependent on the HSRB review will be subject to its separate registration
service fee. The decision review times for the associated actions run concurrently, but will end at the date of the latest review time.
(5) Any other covered application that is associated with and dependent on the SAP review will be subject to its separate registration
service fee. The decision review time for the associated action will be extended by the decision review time for the SAP review.
(6) An application for a new end-use product using a source of active ingredient that (a) is not yet registered but (b) has an application
pending with the Agency for review, will be considered an application for a new product with an unregistered source of active ingredient.
(7) Where the action involves approval of a new or amended label, on or before the end date of the decision review time, the Agency shall
provide to the applicant a draft accepted label, including any changes made by the Agency that differ from the applicant-submitted label
and relevant supporting data reviewed by the Agency. The applicant will notify the Agency that the applicant either (a) agrees to all of the
terms associated with the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests that it be issued as the accepted final Agency-
stamped label; or (b) does not agree to one or more of the terms of the draft accepted label as amended by the Agency and requests addi-
tional time to resolve the difference(s); or (c) withdraws the application without prejudice for subsequent resubmission, but forfeits the as-
sociated registration service fee. For cases described in (b), the applicant shall have up to 30 calendar days to reach agreement with the
Agency on the final terms of the Agency-accepted label. If the applicant agrees to all of the terms of the accepted label as in (a), including
upon resolution of differences in (b), the Agency shall provide an accepted final Agency-stamped label to the registrant within 2 business
days following the registrant’s written or electronic confirmation of agreement to the Agency.
(8) Due to low fee and short time frame this category is not eligible for small business waivers. Gold seal applies to one registered product.
(9) This category includes amendments the sole purpose of which is to add DfE (or equivalent terms that do not use ‘‘safe’’ or derivatives
of ‘‘safe’’) logos to a label. DfE is a voluntary program. A label bearing a DfE logo is not considered an Agency endorsement because the in-
gredients in the qualifying product must meet objective, scientific criteria established and widely publicized by EPA.’’.
SEC. 7. AGRICULTURAL WORKER PROTECTION
STANDARD; CERTIFICATION OF PES-
TICIDE APPLICATORS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), during the period beginning
on the date of enactment of this Act and
ending not earlier than October 1, 2021, the
Administrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency (referred to in this section as
the ‘‘Administrator’’)—
(1) shall carry out—
(A) the final rule of the Administrator en-
titled ‘‘Pesticides; Agricultural Worker Pro-
tection Standard Revisions’’ (80 Fed. Reg.
67496 (November 2, 2015)); and
(B) the final rule of the Administrator en-
titled ‘‘Pesticides; Certification of Pesticide
Applicators’’ (82 Fed. Reg. 952 (January 4,
2017)); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2087
February 25, 2019
(2) shall not revise or develop revisions to
the rules described in subparagraphs (A) and
(B) of paragraph (1).
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—Prior to October 1, 2021,
the Administrator may propose, and after a
notice and public comment period of not less
than 90 days, promulgate revisions to the
final rule described in subsection (a)(1)(A)
addressing application exclusion zones under
part 170 of title 40, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, consistent with the Federal Insecti-
cide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7
U.S.C. 136 et seq.).
(c) GAO REPORT.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall—
(1) conduct a study on the use of the des-
ignated representative, including the effect
of that use on the availability of pesticide
application and hazard information and
worker health and safety; and
(2) not later than October 1, 2021, make
publically available a report describing the
study under paragraph (1), including any rec-
ommendations to prevent the misuse of pes-
ticide application and hazard information, if
that misuse is identified.
Mr. PETERSON (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to dispense with the reading of the
amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Minnesota?
There was no objection.
The amendment was agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be read a
third time, was read the third time,
and passed, and a motion to reconsider
was laid on the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that the
Committee on the Judiciary be dis-
charged from further consideration of
the bill (H.R. 962) the Born-Alive Abor-
tion Survivors Protection Act, and ask
for its immediate consideration in the
House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE IN REMEM-
BRANCE OF THE LIVES LOST TO
GUN VIOLENCE IN AURORA, ILLI-
NOIS
(Mr. FOSTER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. FOSTER. Mr. Speaker, we rise
today to honor the lives that we lost to
gun violence in Aurora, Illinois, earlier
this month.
This is, unfortunately, not the first
time that we have mourned the unnec-
essary loss of life from gun violence.
Eleven years ago, when I first took of-
fice, I inherited a community in
mourning: 17 students were injured and
5 were killed in the Cole Hall mass
shooting at Northern Illinois Univer-
sity. So I spent my first weeks and
months in office doing what I could to
help my community recover.
Now, 11 years later, on February 15,
the call went out from Aurora, Illinois:
Workplace shooting at Henry Pratt.
Active gunman. Officers down.
More than 200 police units from
across the western suburbs of Chicago
responded to contain the situation.
They were running toward the sound of
gunfire, as they do countless times
each day in our country.
Six officers were injured during that
response, and, in the aftermath, we
learned that we lost five members of
our community:
Josh Pinkard, the plant manager at
Henry Pratt, who, when fatally shot,
sent a final text message to his wife,
Terra, to say ‘‘I love you’’;
Trevor Wehner, on his first day at
work at Pratt as an intern from North-
ern Illinois University;
Clayton Parks, Trevor’s supervisor
and also a graduate of NIU;
Vicente Juarez, a hardworking fam-
ily man who lived with his wife, daugh-
ter, and grandchildren on a quiet street
in Oswego;
Russell Beyer, a mold operator and
union committee chairman from Ma-
chinists Local 1202 and the father of
two children.
Now, as we have done so many times
before in Congress, I will soon ask that
we pause for a moment of silence; but
this time, I would ask each of you to
also think of the voting card that each
of us carries on the House floor and the
responsibility that you carry with that
card, because this week we will finally
be voting on legislation for effective
and universal background checks for
all gun sales. This is legislation sup-
ported by both Republicans and Demo-
crats in Congress and supported by 97
percent of the American people.
So, our hearts go out to the family
and friends of the victims left behind,
and now I ask that we pause for a mo-
ment of silence.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All
Members will rise for a moment of si-
lence.
f
HONORING SHERIFF MIKE YEAGER
(Mr. FERGUSON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Coweta County Sheriff
Mike Yeager.
Sheriff Yeager has dedicated over 35
years in law enforcement to keeping
his community safe and serving his
neighbors, both on and off of the job.
In fact, it would take far longer than
I have here tonight to list all of the
many organizations—such as the Geor-
gia and National Sheriff’s Association,
the Newnan-Coweta Public Safety
Board, and the Boy Scouts—so many
organizations that he has served to
make his community and State a bet-
ter place.
It is no understatement that Sheriff
Yeager is a pillar of his community and
a model public servant. It is a testa-
ment to his hard work that President
Trump appointed him to be the U.S.
marshal for the Northern District of
Georgia. I cannot think of anyone who
is better suited for this position.
We are awfully proud of Sheriff
Yeager and his accomplishments, and I
know that he will continue to serve his
State and our Nation well.
f
REMEMBERING THE AURORA
VICTIMS
(Ms. UNDERWOOD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, 10
days ago, five people, four of whom
were my constituents, left their homes
for work at the Henry Pratt Company
in Aurora, Illinois, and never returned.
Their lives were taken by an unspeak-
ably horrible act, gun violence, which
happens heartbreakingly frequently in
this country.
As we consider legislation this week
that is a critical first step towards pre-
venting gun violence, I would like to
take a few moments to honor the lives
our community lost this month.
I wish to remember Russell Beyer.
Proud chair of his union and a 20-year
employee of Henry Pratt, Russell was
the father of two and a steadfast Patri-
ots fan.
We remember Clayton Parks, a
Northern Illinois University grad
whose wife, Abby, describes as an in-
credible father to their young son,
Axel.
We remember Josh Pinkard. ‘‘I want
to shout from the rooftops about how
amazing Josh was,’’ his wife, Terra,
wrote about a man who loved God, fam-
ily, and college football.
We remember Trevor Wehner, a col-
lege student at Northern Illinois Uni-
versity, killed on the very first day of
his internship. He was described by a
friend as someone who would go out of
his way for others.
We remember Vicente Juarez. The
patriarch of a tight-knit family,
Vicente was a caring husband, father,
and grandfather to eight. His neighbors
loved him for his efforts ridding the
neighborhood of dandelions each sum-
mer.
We will never forget our five neigh-
bors, and we will never forget the brav-
ery of law enforcement and first re-
sponders who rushed toward the vio-
lence and undoubtedly saved countless
lives.
May we honor them with our actions,
and may our community come back
stronger than ever before.
f
HONORING DR. MANDERLINE
SCALES
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.037 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2088 February 25, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to honor the life of Dr.
Manderline Scales of Winston-Salem,
North Carolina.
During Black History Month, we es-
pecially remember the enduring con-
tributions of great Americans like Dr.
Scales, who is one of four Black teach-
ers to integrate Winston-Salem
schools.
Dr. Scales worked in the Winston-
Salem/Forsyth County Schools for over
20 years and spent nearly 30 years in
various roles at Winston-Salem State
University. She brought the first Span-
ish programs to these schools and was
known for her belief that every encoun-
ter was an opportunity to impact stu-
dents in a positive way.
Additionally, she served on numerous
boards, including the YMCA of North-
west North Carolina, Delta Fine Arts
Center, and Northwest Child Develop-
ment Center.
Dr. Scales passed away last month,
but her legacy as a dedicated educator
and selfless community leader will en-
dure through the many lives she
touched in her 91 years.
f
BLACK HISTORY MONTH AND
MEDICINE
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, some of
the greatest contributions to medicine
have been made by African Americans
in this country.
The first open-heart surgery in the
United States was successfully com-
pleted by Dr. Daniel Hale Williams, a
Black man. Not only was he a pioneer
of this lifesaving surgery, but also, in
the late 1800s, he opened the country’s
first hospital with an interracial staff,
Provident Hospital in Chicago.
Then, in the 1930s, Dr. Helen Dickens
did her internship at Provident Hos-
pital before becoming the first Black
woman admitted to the American Col-
lege of Surgeons.
And then, while Dr. Dickens was
doing her internship at Provident, a
young Black girl growing up in seg-
regated Arkansas dreamed of becoming
a doctor. Sixty years later, in 1993, Dr.
Joycelyn Elders became America’s
first African American Surgeon Gen-
eral.
Mr. Speaker, Black history is not
something that is in the past. It is con-
stantly unfolding. It is American his-
tory.
Our stories are being written and ex-
panded upon all the time. That is why
Black History Month is so important—
not just to honor our past, but to cele-
brate our present and prepare for our
future.
f
b 1945
CONDEMNING THE FEBRUARY 14,
2019, TERRORIST ATTACK IN INDIA
(Mr. PERRY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I stand
here today to condemn the senseless,
cowardly, and horrific terrorist attack
in India, the deadliest in three decades.
On February 14 of this year, a suicide
bomber rammed an explosive-packed
vehicle into a convoy, claiming the
lives of 40 Indian paramilitary forces
and wounding at least 44 others. The
Pakistan-based militant group, Jaish-
e-Muhammad, later claimed responsi-
bility for the attack.
We mourn the victims of this act of
terror and call for continued action
against any nation, to include Paki-
stan, that harbors terrorists and pro-
motes violent extremism.
India has announced its plans to dip-
lomatically isolate Pakistan and can-
cel its preferential trade status. We
support these efforts, Mr. Speaker.
This attack only further strengthens
our U.S.-India counterterrorism co-
operation.
To the nation of India, we mourn
with you, we pray for you, and we
stand in solidarity with you during
this difficult time.
f
RARE DISEASE WEEK
(Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in recognition of Rare
Disease Week.
Around 350 million people, worldwide,
suffer from a rare disease. That is more
than the number of people who live in
the United States, alone, and it is par-
ticularly alarming when we consider
how few resources are available to
those battling a rare disease.
In fact, of the 7,000 rare diseases in
existence, half of them don’t have a
designated foundation or research sup-
port group, and nearly 90 percent lack
an FDA-approved treatment.
As a member of the Rare Disease
Congressional Caucus, I urge my col-
leagues to support measures that
would increase funding for research
and put our resources into the develop-
ment and accessibility of lifesaving
treatments. Treatments should not be
as rare as the diseases they heal.
f
TEXANS FROM SWEDEN
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, there is a
force of nature that all Texans know:
Texans from Sweden. I am one. But the
most powerful one is a 17-year-old
Cinco Ranch Cougar. Her name is Jen-
nifer Lindgren.
As you can see, Jennifer was born
without a left hand. Not a problem.
Jennifer says: ‘‘Most of the time, I for-
get that I have one hand. I have always
just done pretty much what everybody
else has done.’’
Jennifer, you are wrong. You have
done more than anyone else ever could
do.
Jennifer is the president of the Cinco
Ranch FFA. Her sheep, Lou, won third
place at the recent FFA livestock
show.
Jennifer, you are awesome. As you go
off to the great Aggie school, Texas
A&M University, you must change a
little bit. You have to say ‘‘howdy,’’
‘‘gig em,’’ and ‘‘whoop’’ a lot.
f
JUVENILE JUSTICE
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
just recently, I was very proud and
pleased that this body passed my legis-
lation, the Juvenile Block Grant Anti-
Bullying and Intervention Act, dealing
with the prevention of bullying but,
more importantly, dealing with the op-
portunities for communities across
America to begin to think more cre-
atively about how you deal with juve-
nile justice, how you deal with young
people of juvenile age who have gone
awry of school laws, regular actions of
criminal activities. How do you deal
with these young people?
It is clear that the juvenile justice
system needs to be reformed. As a sen-
ior member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, it is my commitment to listen
to people from across the Nation.
Many people don’t realize that once
you are committed to a juvenile deten-
tion center or facility or jail, under ju-
venile laws in most States, and many
of them receiving Federal dollars, you
will find that there is no definitive sen-
tence. They are sentenced and could be
there from age 14 to 21.
It may be that their parents do not
have resources to get them out; it may
be that they do not have an alternative
place to go; and it may be that they
have no representation. That is not the
way to treat young people.
So we will be looking for legislation
to incentivize our States to change the
juvenile justice and the criminal jus-
tice system, and we look forward to
working with all of our colleagues.
f
CONGRATULATING MAUREEN
MCFADDEN ON HER RETIREMENT
(Mrs. WALORSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Maureen McFad-
den on a remarkable 40-year career at
WNDU-TV. I want to take a moment to
honor the iconic legacy Maureen is
leaving behind and thank her for all
she has done for Michiana commu-
nities.
A lifelong Hoosier, Maureen has been
a fixture in South Bend as a reporter
and anchor at WNDU Newscenter 16 for
the past four decades. She has played a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.042 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2089
February 25, 2019
vital role in making northern Indiana
stronger not only by bringing us the
day’s news, but always finding ways to
serve her neighbors and give back to
the community she loves to call home.
I am grateful to Maureen not only for
her excellence in journalism, but also
for the incredible example she has set
for aspiring journalists and young Hoo-
sier women who are always looking for
ways to give back to build a brighter
future.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in recognizing the exceptional
character, leadership, and compassion
Maureen has demonstrated both on and
off the air.
Mo, I wish you the very best.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT
(Mr. MCADAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of S. 47, the Natural Resources
Management Act, which we will vote
on tomorrow. This comprehensive pub-
lic lands package has numerous provi-
sions that benefit my State of Utah
and makes permanent the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
In my district, this legislation pro-
vides an important land conveyance to
Juab County that will be used to house
personnel to prevent and fight
wildfires. This bill also facilitates a
land transfer in Utah County to Utah’s
School and Institutional Trust Lands
Administration, or SITLA.
SITLA holds lands in trust, proceeds
which support Utah’s education sys-
tem. This land transfer will ultimately
benefit Utah State University and its
students.
I also want to congratulate my col-
league, Representative JOHN CURTIS,
for his work in bringing together and
working with State, city, and county
stakeholders in Emery County. The
Emery County title in this bill has
broad local support and will protect
over 600,000 acres of wilderness, the
largest wilderness designation in 25
years.
This legislation is good for Utah’s
economy. The Land and Water Con-
servation Fund should never have been
allowed to expire because it is such a
vital program.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF COMMISSIONER MARCUS
HARDY
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in sadness, but also to honor a commis-
sioner, Commissioner Marcus Hardy,
who was a highly respected leader in
his community.
Marcus served as a city commis-
sioner in the town of Crescent City,
Florida, which is located in the district
which I am proud to represent. I was
fortunate enough to work alongside
Mr. Hardy in efforts to improve Cres-
cent City and the greater community.
Beyond being a devoted public serv-
ant, a coach, and a role model, Marcus
was a family man and a friend to
many. Anyone who knew him knew his
heart and his passion for serving oth-
ers. He often spent his free time serv-
ing as a mentor for the Boys II Men or-
ganization in Crescent City or working
to revitalize Putnam County for the
benefit of the whole community.
Marcus will be remembered for his
compassion, his leadership, his friend-
ship, his large, firm hand grip and con-
tagious smile.
Thank you for your service, Marcus.
You will be missed by many.
f
AMERICANS’ SHIFTING VIEWS ON
ABORTION
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak about a recent shift we
have seen in this country over the re-
cent weeks—that is Americans’ views
on abortion.
Not long ago, a Marist poll found
that 55 percent of Americans were like-
ly to identify as pro-choice compared
to about 38 percent identifying as pro-
life—indeed, a 17-point gap. Now, the
polls are tied.
As reported this week by Axios, a
similar Marist poll found that Ameri-
cans are now, for the first time, equal-
ly likely to be pro-life as they are to be
pro-choice, both registering at 47 per-
cent.
Why the sudden change? The horrific
rhetoric offered by some of the left,
that is why, including the Virginia
Governor’s indefensible remarks that
he would support the murder of a baby
post-birth. It is inconceivable to me
that someone could differentiate a
post-birth ‘‘abortion’’ from actual mur-
der.
The good news is I think most Ameri-
cans agree with me. That is why we are
seeing, finally, this dramatic shift.
My colleague from Missouri, Rep-
resentative ANN WAGNER, has intro-
duced the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act in order to end
infanticide taking place after failed
abortion attempts. The Democrats
have repeatedly blocked the effort, in-
cluding tonight. We need to have a vote
on this bill.
f
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
(Mr. FULCHER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, my
Democratic colleagues have made pub-
lic the details of the so-called Green
New Deal. Among other things, if im-
plemented over the next 10 years, it
would eliminate the use of fossil fuels
and nuclear power. That means our
gasoline-powered vehicles and imple-
ments would be useless, and there
would be no air travel.
It would also require that virtually
all building structures would be rebuilt
or need to be remodeled. Every facet of
life would be forced to change.
The most frightening thing about
this is that my colleagues sponsoring it
are actually serious.
Furthermore, the architects failed to
explain how they are going to rebuild
the economy they would decimate.
Mr. Speaker, I would suggest the ar-
chitects of this legislation change the
color of the Green New Deal and call it
the Red—as in stop sign red—New Dis-
aster.
f
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
ROSE of New York). Under the Speak-
er’s announced policy of January 3,
2019, the gentleman from Washington
(Mr. NEWHOUSE) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, before
I begin, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous mate-
rials on the topic of my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Washington?
There was no objection.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
this evening to lead a Special Order
alongside my colleagues to discuss,
frankly, a reckless and misguided and
radical proposal recently introduced by
some of my Democratic colleagues, the
Green New Deal.
Tonight, together with many of my
fellow members of the Congressional
Western Caucus, we will be taking the
time to share with the American peo-
ple the details of the ill-advised and bi-
zarre provisions included in this green
manifesto and the grave impacts that
they would have on our Nation’s econ-
omy.
b 2000
We will also share what we, as Re-
publicans in the people’s House, believe
when it comes to our national strategy
to innovate, diversify, and strengthen
America’s energy sector.
Mr. Speaker, the Green New Deal is a
bad deal for the American people. This
so-called deal calls for cutting of
greenhouse gas emissions to net zero in
only 10 years.
And while many studies are still
working to grasp the perilous impacts
and the enormous costs of this pro-
posal, one independent estimate, led by
a team of Stanford engineers, suggests
it would cost our Nation in the neigh-
borhood of $7 trillion to convert all of
America’s power to renewable power
sources.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.045 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2090 February 25, 2019
To quote the former Secretary of En-
ergy under President Obama, Ernest
Moniz, he said: ‘‘I’m afraid I just can-
not see how we could possibly go to
zero carbon in the 10-year timeframe.
It is just impractical.’’
Mr. Speaker, the Green New Deal
goes much further than just the energy
sector, however. It also mandates the
guarantee of a job for everyone, paid
vacations for everyone, free college for
everyone. It dictates that every exist-
ing building in this country must be
upgraded and retrofitted for ‘‘com-
fort.’’
It calls for a drastic overhaul of our
transportation systems across the
country, threatening not only our
trucking and airline industries, but
also the daily lives of the 85 percent of
Americans who drive every morning or
evening to get to work.
Mr. Speaker, while calling for all of
these implausible mandates, the Green
New Deal would also insert the Federal
Government into seemingly every as-
pect of our daily lives.
By expanding our Federal bureauc-
racy far beyond anything we have ever
seen in history and undermining the
federalist principles our country was
founded upon in the Constitution, this
proposal would jeopardize the future of
America as we know it. It would sac-
rifice the American energy, manufac-
turing, and transportation sectors;
jeopardize businesses small and large
across the Nation; and lead our country
down the path of socialist nations like
Venezuela, North Korea, and Cuba.
As the Senate Democratic Whip DICK
DURBIN said after reading the proposal:
‘‘What in the heck is this?’’
Mr. Speaker, I couldn’t agree more.
My State, the great State of Wash-
ington, consistently ranks among the
top of the list of States with the clean-
est energy production. Do you know
why that is? It is because of the strong
reliance on our incredible system of
hydroelectric dams, many of which are
in my congressional district along the
Columbia and the Snake Rivers.
Nearly 70 percent of our power comes
from hydropower, a clean, renewable,
reliable, and affordable source of base-
load energy.
It also comes from our use of nuclear
power. The Columbia Generating Sta-
tion, which is also in the Fourth Con-
gressional District which I represent, is
the only nuclear power plant in the
greater Northwest region. It too pro-
vides clean, reliable power for the Pa-
cific Northwest.
On top of these sources, Washington
State uses a variety of other energy
sources, including natural gas, coal,
wind, solar, and biomass.
It is because we use an all-of-the-
above mix of energy sources, but large-
ly concentrated on clean, renewable,
reliable hydropower, that Washington
State continues to demonstrate how we
can lead in the use of clean energy
while still diversifying and thereby
strengthening our energy portfolio.
Unfortunately, the Green New Deal
negates this ability to do so. Not once
is the word ‘‘hydropower’’ mentioned
in the legislation. And in the fre-
quently asked questions document that
was released to accompany the intro-
duction of the Green New Deal, it stat-
ed that ‘‘The plan is to transition off of
nuclear.’’
Mr. Speaker, if we are going to con-
tinue to strengthen America’s energy
independence and increase our use of
clean sources of energy, we must abso-
lutely include hydropower and nuclear
power. The science says so, the facts
say so.
So when Democrats in Congress re-
lease a sweeping, colossal overhaul of
our Nation’s energy policies and do not
include these clean energy sources, it
is clear that this is far more about pol-
itics and not about sound science.
Mr. Speaker, my fellow House Repub-
licans and I continue to advocate for
sound, comprehensive approaches to
energy policy. We must continue to ex-
plore every opportunity to develop via-
ble alternative energy sources, which is
why under Republican control of the
House in recent Congresses, we have
made serious investments in advanced
nuclear and basic science research,
grid-scale energy storage, and equipped
our national laboratories with robust
resources to lead the way in research,
development, and innovation.
National laboratories, like the Pa-
cific Northwest National Laboratory in
my district, play a crucial role in de-
veloping the basic science research
needed to pave the way for these alter-
native sources. Then when private in-
dustry can utilize this research, the
open marketplace can put these new
sources to use.
That is exactly what our country
needs: more collaboration, more inno-
vation; not a top-down mandated sys-
tem of bureaucratic dictates based
upon a green manifesto.
Mr. Speaker, I often share with my
constituents that as a third generation
farmer, I consider myself to be a con-
servationist and on the front lines of
being a good steward of our natural re-
sources. I know that we must respect
our environment, we must ensure clean
air and clean water for our citizens,
and we must encourage innovative
ways to produce energy through a vari-
ety of reliable, renewable traditional
and alternative sources.
Tonight I am looking forward to
hearing from my friends and my col-
leagues in the Congressional Western
Caucus on why the Green New Deal
would be catastrophic for their con-
stituents and what we in our Nation’s
capital should really be prioritizing in
order to continue America’s energy
independence dominance.
So with that, Mr. Speaker, I yield to
my first speaker, the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. STAUBER), the gen-
tleman that represents the Eighth Dis-
trict of that great State.
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today with my colleagues in opposition
to the Green New Deal.
This disastrous plan, cooked up by
out-of-touch Washington elites, simply
does not work for Minnesota families.
According to the Energy Information
Administration, 68 percent of Min-
nesota’s energy consumption comes
from a combination of coal, natural
gas, nuclear, hydropower, and gasoline,
all of which are to be banned com-
pletely by the Green New Deal in 10
years.
Allowed under this radical pipe
dream are wind, solar, and biomass,
which barely account for 15 percent of
Minnesota’s energy consumption.
Picture a family in Ely, Minnesota,
where wind chill temperatures reached
71 below zero this January, waking up
in a warm house heated by natural gas.
They start a hot pot of coffee, pow-
ered by our affordable electric grid;
take a hot shower, again, heated by
natural gas; drive their kids to school
in their van, powered by reliable, af-
fordable gasoline; go to work, possibly
at a mine or a local hospital; drive
home again in that same gasoline-pow-
ered car; make dinner for their family,
using their gas-powered stove; and then
wake up again and do it all over.
The little things that we take for
granted every day are powered by con-
ventional energy.
The Green New Deal would have a se-
vere impact on our everyday lives,
something that northern Minnesotans
do not want or need.
The Green New Deal would force
every Minnesota family to turn in
their cars for electric vehicles and ret-
rofit their homes to run on renewable
sources, like solar or wind.
I understand elites from D.C. and
New York City may love this plan, but
I know the reality. I encourage my col-
leagues, especially those who support
this plan, to go back to their districts,
like I did last week and really listen to
their constituents, listen to their con-
cerns, listen to how this plan would
devastate the middle class and dev-
astate hardworking Minnesota fami-
lies.
Retrofitting homes, buying electric
cars, and ending the mining, airline,
and much of the shipping industries
may be fun ideas for the ultra-wealthy,
but I know what it really means for
middle-class families in northern Min-
nesota.
We cannot let these unrealistic ideas
get in the way of actual progress. We
must develop renewable forms of en-
ergy, but at the same time, not shut
out conventional, affordable energy
sources on which millions rely.
Do not let the Green New Deal dis-
tract from what northern Minnesotans
care about: expanding rural broadband
for better internet access, bringing
good paying jobs back to our commu-
nities, and protecting Social Security
and Medicare.
With the projected cost of tens of
trillions of dollars, the Green New Deal
puts all of this at risk.
I will not risk the future of Medicare
and Social Security. I will not risk the
future of middle-class families.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.048 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2091
February 25, 2019
However, I will stand up for the farm-
ers, our miners, our small business
owners, manufacturers, and workers
threatened by this Green New Deal.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman from Min-
nesota for expressing so eloquently
how Americans around the country
would be affected by this if this legisla-
tion was adopted into law. People from
different parts of the country with ex-
treme weather, as you have heard, de-
pend on reliable sources of energy.
From minus 71 to hopefully a little
warmer climate, the next speaker I am
going to yield to is the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. GOSAR), the chairman of
our Western Caucus and the represent-
ative from the Fourth Congressional
District.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend, the gentleman from Wash-
ington, for organizing this important
Special Order on the Green New Deal.
Mr. Speaker, America’s energy ren-
aissance is the backbone of our econ-
omy. It is a story of freedom, pros-
perity, and opportunity.
After decades of reliance on other
countries to meet our energy needs,
the U.S. Energy Information Adminis-
tration projects that America will ex-
port more energy than it imports start-
ing in 2020. We are no longer dependent
on volatile foreign sources produced in
Russia or Saudi Arabia.
Recent innovation and technology
improvements associated with fracking
and horizontal drilling have allowed
shale resources, previously deemed un-
economical, to be developed, and are
the main reason the U.S. was the world
leader in carbon emissions reductions
in 2015, 2016, and 2017.
That is right. Fracking, demonized
by environmental extremists without
justification, has proven to be the best
energy solution for our environment.
Abundant oil and natural gas has re-
duced electricity bills, kept gas prices
low, and provided the largest share of
U.S. electric power generation in re-
cent years.
The oil and gas industry supports
more than 10.3 million jobs and nearly
8 percent of our economy.
The United States is the world’s top
energy producer, and the American
Dream is thriving.
January 2019 saw the hundredth con-
secutive month of positive jobs growth
in America, the longest period of con-
tinuous jobs growth on record.
The U.S. job market is strong, and in
December, employers posted 7.3 million
open jobs, a new record.
Now, despite America’s energy ren-
aissance and the aforementioned emis-
sions reductions, we continue to hear
hyperbolic statements about pending
climate catastrophe and the need for
radical change to stave off future dis-
aster.
The Democrat socialists pushing the
Green New Deal want to get rid of all
energy sources except wind, solar, and
batteries by 2030. How are we going to
do that when wind and solar only pro-
duced 7.6 percent of our electricity in
2017?
The Green New Deal would drive en-
ergy production and jobs to countries
like China and India that have much
worse environmental standards. Global
greenhouse gas emissions will increase
as a result, in direct contradiction to
the main talking point of the Green
New Deal.
The socialist Green New Deal says it
will provide higher education, higher
quality healthcare, and affordable,
safe, and adequate housing to all.
b 2015
The Mercatus Center estimates that
the cost of the single-payer healthcare
provision alone would cost $32 trillion
in the first 10 years, something that I
think is probably on the low side.
The Green New Deal is an alarmist
pipe dream that seeks to fundamen-
tally transform America without a
blueprint. This socialist manifesto
changes by the day, and important de-
tails on how a transition of the Green
New Deal’s magnitude will occur are
missing, including how we will pay for
this pie in the sky aspiration.
If one needs to have more evidence
that the Green New Deal is not plau-
sible, look no further than the country
of Australia where electricity prices
are the highest in the world and the
Aussies’ obsession with renewables has
destroyed their electric grid. Mass
blackouts and mass power cuts are the
new norm, and a massive Tesla battery
backup system ran dry this past month
as the Aussie power grid crashed in
summer temperatures. Ninety thou-
sand Aussie homes had no air-condi-
tioning for the next 2 weeks of blis-
tering heat.
Let’s learn from Australia’s mis-
takes. Let’s not repeat them.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to en-
lightening everyone on this legislation
further in the coming days.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the good gentleman from Ari-
zona for expressing his thoughts on
how this would impact the people not
only in Arizona, but also around the
country.
Mr. Speaker, many of my constitu-
ents continue to ask me what is actu-
ally in this Green New Deal legislation.
Unfortunately for the American people,
the Members of Congress who intro-
duced the resolution had, I guess, sev-
eral hiccups along the way during their
rollout and released conflicting docu-
ments to accompany the bill.
One significant piece of legislation
that my constituents have asked me
about is whether the related resolution
mandated a job for everyone in the
United States. Well, that is, in fact,
true. A part of the frequently asked
questions document that was released
with the legislation even stated that
economic security would be provided
for those who are ‘‘unwilling to work.’’
Many of my constituents think that is
an amazing statement.
After an adviser to the Green New
Deal accused Republicans of doctoring
this document, The Washington Post
later reported that he erroneously
made that accusation. In fact, this doc-
ument was released by Congresswoman
OCASIO-CORTEZ’s office.
Representative OCASIO-CORTEZ has
since retracted the frequently asked
questions document, but the message I
hope my constituents and the Amer-
ican people hear clearly is that we
know the motives behind this legisla-
tion. We know the intent. From ending
the airline industry to shutting down
all nuclear power, unfortunately, some
people on the other side of the aisle,
my colleagues on the Democratic side,
are threatening the American econ-
omy.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the frequently asked questions docu-
ment that was released by Congress-
woman OCASIO-CORTEZ’s office.
LAUNCH: Thursday, February 7, at 8:30 a.m.
OVERVIEW
We will begin work immediately on Green
New Deal bills to put the nuts and bolts on
the plan described in this resolution (impor-
tant to say so someone else can’t claim this
mantle).
This is a massive transformation of our so-
ciety with clear goals and a timeline.
The Green New Deal resolution a 10-year
plan to mobilize every aspect of American
society at a scale not seen since World War
2 to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emis-
sions and create economic prosperity for all.
It will:
Move America to 100% clean and renewable
energy
Create millions of family supporting-wage,
union jobs
Ensure a just transition for all commu-
nities and workers to ensure economic secu-
rity for people and communities that have
historically relied on fossil fuel industries
Ensure justice and equity for frontline
communities by prioritizing investment,
training, climate and community resiliency,
economic and environmental benefits in
these communities.
Build on FDR’s second bill of rights by
guaranteeing:
A job with a family-sustaining wage, fam-
ily and medical leave, vacations, and retire-
ment security
High-quality education, including higher
education and trade schools
Clean air and water and access to nature
Healthy food
High-quality health care
Safe, affordable, adequate housing
Economic environment free of monopolies
Economic security for all who are unable
or unwilling to work
There is no time to waste.
IPCC Report said global emissions must be
cut by 40–60% by 2030. US is 20% of total
emissions. We must get to 0 by 2030 and lead
the world in a global Green New Deal.
Americans love a challenge. This is our
moonshot.
When JFK said we’d go to the by the end
of the decade, people said impossible.
If Eisenhower wanted to build the inter-
state highway system today, people would
ask how we’d pay for it.
When FDR called on America to build
185,000 planes to fight World War 2, every
business leader, CEO, and general laughed at
him. At the time, the U.S. had produced 3,000
planes in the last year. By the end of the
war, we produced 300,000 planes. That’s what
we are capable of if we have real leadership
This is massive investment in our economy
and society, not expenditure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.049 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2092 February 25, 2019
We invested 40–50% of GDP into our econ-
omy during World War 2 and created the
greatest middle class the US has seen.
The interstate highway system has re-
turned more than $6 in economic produc-
tivity for every $1 it cost
This is massively expanding existing and
building new industries at a rapid pace—
growing our economy
The Green New Deal has momentum.
92 percent of Democrats and 64 percent of
Republicans support the Green New Deal
Nearly every major Democratic Presi-
dential contender say they back the Green
New Deal including: Elizabeth Warren, Cory
Booker, Kamala Harris, Jeff Merkeley, Ju-
lian Castro, Kirsten Gillibrand, Bernie Sand-
ers, Tulsi Gabbard, and Jay Inslee.
45 House Reps and 330+ groups backed the
original resolution for a select committee
Over 300 local and state politicians have
called for a federal Green New Deal
New Resolution has 20 co-sponsors, about
30 groups (numbers will change by Thurs-
day).
FAQ
Why 100% clean and renewable and not just
100% renewable? Are you saying we won’t
transition off fossil fuels?
Yes, we are calling for a full transition off
fossil fuels and zero greenhouse gases. Any-
one who has read the resolution sees that we
spell this out through a plan that calls for
eliminating greenhouse gas emissions from
every sector of the economy. Simply banning
fossil fuels immediately won’t build the new
economy to replace it—this is the plan to
build that new economy and spells out how
to do it technically. We do this through a
huge mobilization to create the renewable
energy economy as fast as possible. We set a
goal to get to net-zero, rather than zero
emissions, in 10 years because we aren’t sure
that we’ll be able to fully get rid of farting
cows and airplanes that fast, but we think
we can ramp up renewable manufacturing
and power production, retrofit every building
in America, build the smart grid, overhaul
transportation and agriculture, plant lots of
trees and restore our ecosystem to get to
net-zero.
Is nuclear a part of this?
A Green New Deal is a massive investment
in renewable energy production and would
not include creating new nuclear plants. It’s
unclear if we will be able to decommission
every nuclear plant within 10 years, but the
plan is to transition off of nuclear and all
fossil fuels as soon as possible. No one has
put the full 10-year plan together yet, and if
it is possible to get to fully 100% renewable
in 10 years, we will do that.
Does this include a carbon tax?
The Green New Deal is a massive invest-
ment in the production of renewable energy
industries and infrastructure. We cannot
simply tax gas and expect workers to figure
out another way to get to work unless we’ve
first created a better, more affordable op-
tion. So we’re not ruling a carbon tax out,
but a carbon tax would be a tiny part of a
Green New Deal in the face of the gigantic
expansion of our productive economy and
would have to be preceded by first creating
the solutions necessary so that workers and
working class communities are not affected.
While a carbon tax may be a part of the
Green New Deal, it misses the point and
would be off the table unless we create the
clean, affordable options first.
Does this include cap and trade?
The Green New Deal is about creating the
renewable energy economy through a mas-
sive investment in our society and economy.
Cap and trade assumes the existing market
will solve this problem for us, and that’s
simply not true. While cap and trade may be
a tiny part of the larger Green New Deal
plan to mobilize our economy, any cap and
trade legislation will pale in comparison to
the size of the mobilization and must recog-
nize that existing legislation can incentivize
companies to create toxic hotspots in front-
line communities, so anything here must en-
sure that frontline communities are
prioritized.
Does a GND ban all new fossil fuel infra-
structure or nuclear power plants?
The Green New Deal makes new fossil fuel
infrastructure or nuclear plants unneces-
sary. This is a massive mobilization of all
our resources into renewable energies. It
would simply not make sense to build new
fossil fuel infrastructure because we will be
creating a plan to reorient our entire econ-
omy to work off renewable energy. Simply
banning fossil fuels and nuclear plants im-
mediately won’t build the new economy to
replace it—this is the plan to build that new
economy and spells out how to do it tech-
nically.
Are you for CCUS?
We believe the right way to capture carbon
is to plant trees and restore our natural eco-
systems. CCUS technology to date has not
proven effective.
How will you pay for it?
The same way we paid for the New Deal,
the 2008 bank bailout and extended quan-
titative easing programs. The same way we
paid for World War II and all our current
wars. The Federal Reserve can extend credit
to power these projects and investments and
new public banks can be created to extend
credit. There is also space for the govern-
ment to take an equity stake in projects to
get a return on investment. At the end of the
day, this is an investment in our economy
that should grow our wealth as a nation, so
the question isn’t how will we pay for it, but
what will we do with our new shared pros-
perity.
Why do we need a sweeping Green New
Deal investment program? Why can’t we just
rely on regulations and taxes and the private
sector to invest alone such as a carbon tax or
a ban on fossil fuels?
The level of investment required is mas-
sive. Even if every billionaire and company
came together and were willing to pour all
the resources at their disposal into this in-
vestment, the aggregate value of the invest-
ments they could make would not be suffi-
cient.
The speed of investment required will be
massive. Even if all the billionaires and com-
panies could make the investments required,
they would not be able to pull together a co-
ordinated response in the narrow window of
time required to jump-start major new
projects and major new economic sectors.
Also, private companies are wary of making
massive investments in unproven research
and technologies; the government, however,
has the time horizon to be able to patiently
make investments in new tech and R&D,
without necessarily having a commercial
outcome or application in mind at the time
the investment is made. Major examples of
government investments in ‘‘new’’ tech that
subsequently spurred a boom in the private
section include DARPA-projects, the cre-
ation of the internet—and, perhaps most re-
cently, the government’s investment in
Tesla.
Simply put, we don’t need to just stop
doing some things we are doing (like using
fossil fuels for energy needs); we also need to
start doing new things (like overhauling
whole industries or retrofitting all buildings
to be energy efficient). Starting to do new
things requires some upfront investment. In
the same way that a company that is trying
to change how it does business may need to
make big upfront capital investments today
in order to reap future benefits (for e.g.,
building a new factory to increase produc-
tion or buying new hardware and software to
totally modernize its IT system), a country
that is trying to change how its economy
works will need to make big investments
today to jump-start and develop new projects
and sectors to power the new economy.
Merely incentivizing the private sector
doesn’t work—e.g. the tax incentives and
subsidies given to wind and solar projects
have been a valuable spur to growth in the
US renewables industry but, even with such
investment-promotion subsidies, the present
level of such projects is simply inadequate to
transition to a fully greenhouse gas neutral
economy as quickly as needed.
Once again, we’re not saying that there
isn’t a role for private sector investments;
we’re just saying that the level of invest-
ment required will need every actor to pitch
in and that the government is best placed to
be the prime driver.
RESOLUTION SUMMARY
Created in consultation with multiple
groups from environmental community, en-
vironmental justice community, and labor
community
5 goals in 10 years:
Net-zero greenhouse gas emissions through
a fair and just transition for all communities
and workers
Create millions of high-wage jobs and en-
sure prosperity and economic security for all
Invest in infrastructure and industry to
sustainably meet the challenges of the 21st
century
Clean air and water, climate and commu-
nity resiliency, healthy food, access to na-
ture, and a sustainable environment for all
Promote justice and equity by stopping
current, preventing future, and repairing his-
toric oppression of frontline and vulnerable
communities
National mobilization our economy
through 14 infrastructure and industrial
projects. Every project strives to remove
greenhouse gas emissions and pollution from
every sector of our economy:
Build infrastructure to create resiliency
against climate change-related disasters
Repair and upgrade U.S. infrastructure.
ASCE estimates this is $4.6 trillion at min-
imum.
Meet 100% of power demand through clean
and renewable energy sources
Build energy-efficient, distributed smart
grids and ensure affordable access to elec-
tricity
Upgrade or replace every building in US for
state-of-the-art energy efficiency
Massively expand clean manufacturing
(like solar panel factories, wind turbine fac-
tories, battery and storage manufacturing,
energy efficient manufacturing components)
and remove pollution and greenhouse gas
emissions from manufacturing
Work with farmers and ranchers to create
a sustainable, pollution and greenhouse gas
free, food system that ensures universal ac-
cess to healthy food and expands inde-
pendent family farming
Totally overhaul transportation by mas-
sively expanding electric vehicle manufac-
turing, build charging stations everywhere,
build out high-speed rail at a scale where air
travel stops becoming necessary, create af-
fordable public transit available to all, with
goal to replace every combustion-engine ve-
hicle
Mitigate long-term health effects of cli-
mate change and pollution
Remove greenhouse gases from our atmos-
phere and pollution through afforestation,
preservation, and other methods of restoring
our natural ecosystems
Restore all our damaged and threatened
ecosystems
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.039 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2093
February 25, 2019
Clean up all the existing hazardous waste
sites and abandoned sites
Identify new emission sources and create
solutions to eliminate those emissions
Make the US the leader in addressing cli-
mate change and share our technology, ex-
pertise and products with the rest of the
world to bring about a global Green New
Deal
Social and economic justice and security
through 15 requirements:
Massive federal investments and assistance
to organizations and businesses participating
in the green new deal and ensuring the pub-
lic gets a return on that investment
Ensure the environmental and social costs
of emissions are taken into account
Provide job training and education to all
Invest in R&D of new clean and renewable
energy technologies
Doing direct investments in frontline and
deindustrialized communities that would
otherwise be hurt by the transition to
prioritize economic benefits there
Use democratic and participatory proc-
esses led by frontline and vulnerable commu-
nities to implement GND projects locally
Ensure that all GND jobs are union jobs
that pay prevailing wages and hire local
Guarantee a job with family-sustaining
wages
Protect right of all workers to unionize
and organize
Strengthen and enforce labor, workplace
health and safety, antidiscrimination, and
wage and hour standards
Enact and enforce trade rules to stop the
transfer of jobs and pollution overseas and
grow domestic manufacturing
Ensure public lands, waters, and oceans are
protected and eminent domain is not abused
Obtain free, prior, and informed consent of
Indigenous peoples
Ensure an economic environment free of
monopolies and unfair competition
Provide high-quality health care, housing,
economic security, and clean air, clean
water, healthy food, and nature to all
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the other gentleman from the great
State of Arizona (Mr. BIGGS), who rep-
resents the Fifth District and I believe
served on the Science, Space, and Tech-
nology Committee very well.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I applaud
and give my thanks and gratitude to
the gentleman from Washington for his
efforts in leading this today, and to the
Congressional Western Caucus and the
members who are exposing what is
really not a Green New Deal, but really
is a green socialist manifesto.
Here is what we need to understand
about this. This is so broad and expan-
sive, as Mr. NEWHOUSE has said, it will,
basically, invade every aspect of every
American’s life, and it will cost tens of
trillions of dollars to implement.
How will we pay for that? We are
going to pay for that with crushing
new taxes on individuals, families, and
companies. We are going to destroy the
current foundation of our entire Amer-
ican economy.
There will be more borrowing, not
just from the public sector, but from
the private sector. The public sector is
in trouble because the Federal Govern-
ment just hit $22 trillion of national
debt.
The question is, what will the impact
of this be on the environment? It would
do little to solve the alleged problem of
carbon in the atmosphere because the
United States is no longer the primary
source of carbon emissions.
Between 2005 and 2017, our Nation has
reduced CO2 emissions by 862 million
tons. Today, the U.S. is responsible for
only 15 percent of global CO2 emissions.
During roughly the same period, China
increased its emissions by 4 billion
tons and India by 1.3 billion tons.
Needless to say, the GND doesn’t ex-
plain how we would compel other na-
tions to change their behavior. But do-
mestically, as I have said, we are going
to emasculate our economy. The coal,
nuclear, natural gas, petroleum, and
air travel industries will be wiped out,
and all of the industries that support
those industries. That means hundreds
of thousands of people will lose their
jobs almost instantly.
At the same time, the Green New
Deal, or the green socialist manifesto,
is going to guarantee a wage. It is
going to guarantee income for every-
one.
As Representative RYAN said, we
can’t green the economy without the
power of the free market system. He is
right. That is the ultimate point of
what I want to say today.
We know that science doesn’t support
the green socialist manifesto, but we
know something that is really critical
to understand. This proposal, which
today is so vast, so encompassing, and
so primitive in its creation, is also so
destructive to our economy and mul-
tiple industries, multiple sectors of our
economy, that I would say there is
only one way that you can implement
such an outlandish and reckless idea,
and that is to use the awesome, over-
reaching power of government to not
just induce, but to coerce implementa-
tion of this faulty idea.
In its scope, breadth, and depth, this
plan is authoritarian in nature. It will
require government flexing its muscles
to mandate activities and forbid other
actions in every American’s life.
We can’t afford this plan. This plan
will not provide what it says it is going
to do. Moreover, in a free, constitu-
tional Republic, you can never allow
this kind of socialism to be combined
with authoritarianism.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Mr. BIGGS for sharing his
thoughts on the direction that this
would take our Nation and the dan-
gerous path it would lead us upon.
Those are things that we need to make
sure that we don’t allow happen, and I
think the American people would agree
with us.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL), the good
doctor from Kansas’ First District who
serves on the Agriculture Committee. I
know this is going to have a huge im-
pact on many industries, but particu-
larly agriculture.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I must admit that, back
home, the Green New Deal means that
John Deere dealers are having a new
combine sale.
I stand before you this evening to tell
you exactly why the Green New Deal is
a sham. Rather than setting realistic
goals to reduce carbon emissions and
incentivize cleaner energy develop-
ment, this so-called deal stalls innova-
tion and drastically expands govern-
ment involvement in almost every as-
pect of everyday life, at a price tag of
more than $50 trillion.
Over the past 2 years, we have un-
leashed our economy by reducing gov-
ernment overregulation, allowing more
Americans to invest in their families,
futures, and pursuits. The Green New
Deal will throw the brakes on our econ-
omy, as well as the world’s economy.
Nothing will increase worldwide carbon
production more than a stalled econ-
omy.
Additionally, this Green New Deal re-
verses our success by imposing harsher
regulations that will put American
workers and American companies at an
extreme disadvantage. This socialist
proposal that Democrats are cham-
pioning completely ignores the cost to
American taxpayers and fails to ad-
dress the negative impacts that other
countries have on global climate
change. It implements policies that
will dramatically increase taxes, bur-
dens, and energy bills for families.
This deal will absolutely devastate
our economy with its outrageous de-
mands for new green infrastructure,
new green labor practices, and new
green taxes. It will crush American
manufacturing and transportation in-
dustries. It would completely halt do-
mestic energy production that has had
record exports under the Trump admin-
istration.
I am a firm believer that we must
focus on leaving this world better than
we found it for the next generation.
For my children, for your children, and
for our grandchildren, we need to be
good stewards of the resources and the
planet we have been given, but any rea-
sonable solution will require us to use
common sense when approaching the
issues.
We must also be careful not to fall
into the trap of believing that the U.S.
Government is the answer to correct
all our problems. America has always
been a nation of innovators, and in-
stead of imposing new regulations and
taxes, we must continue to lead the
world and partner with American in-
dustries to develop creative solutions
and new innovative technologies. Inno-
vation will do more to impact climate
change than any law Washington, D.C.,
can write.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Dr. MARSHALL for sharing with
us his thoughts from the great State of
Kansas.
Some of the proponents of the Green
New Deal have criticized others for
criticizing the Green New Deal, saying
that we don’t have any room to talk if
we are not going to offer something to-
ward the issues that we face as a world
and as a country.
Let me just say, Mr. Speaker, we do
have options, and we do have solutions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.041 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2094 February 25, 2019
that we have been offering. Let me
share a piece written by my Republican
colleagues just recently who lead the
Energy and Commerce Committee. Mr.
GREG WALDEN, Mr. FRED UPTON, and
Mr. JOHN SHIMKUS shared an article
that was published in several news-
papers around the country. Some of the
things that they say go like this:
‘‘America’s approach for tackling cli-
mate change should be built upon the
principles of innovation, conservation,
and adaptation. Republicans have long
championed realistic, innovative, and
free-market strategies to promote a
cleaner environment and to reduce
emissions. The results are clear: The
United States is leading the world in
reducing greenhouse gas emissions
thanks to vibrant energy sector com-
petition and innovation.’’
They go on to say: ‘‘We should con-
tinue to encourage innovation and re-
newable energy development. We
should promote carbon capture and uti-
lization, renewable hydropower, and
safe nuclear power, which is emissions-
free. We should also look to remove
barriers to energy storage and commer-
cial batteries to help make renewable
sources more viable and our electricity
grid more resilient. And we must en-
courage more research and business in-
vestments in new clean energy tech-
nologies. These are bipartisan solu-
tions that we must seize on to deliver
real results for the American people.’’
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. CLOUD) from the 27th
District.
b 2030
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from Washington (Mr.
NEWHOUSE).
Mr. Speaker, the Green New Deal is a
bad deal for the people of America.
Just days ago, we passed $22 trillion in
debt for which we have no plan to begin
paying off. The Green New Deal would
only add trillions more while simulta-
neously destroying the American econ-
omy, which not only means families
across our Nation would lose their abil-
ity to sustain themselves, but it would
also shut down the innovation engine
of the world.
The 27th District of Texas, which I
represent, has a better approach. We
are home to a diverse energy portfolio,
which includes wind, nuclear, LNG, oil
production—not to mention our fair
share of cows and airplanes.
We are home to a safe, reliable nu-
clear power plant in Matagorda County
that generates 2.7 gigawatts of power,
and that is a power of nearly 2 million
Texas homes and businesses. It would
take 8.4 million solar panels to replace
that kind of energy. Even President
Obama’s Secretary of Energy said,
‘‘It’s just impractical.’’
We are also home to the leading ex-
port energy port in the Nation. We
have been a great part in the success of
what we have seen as a nation of going
from an energy-dependent nation to an
energy-dominant nation. And what
that new American energy dominance
means, it means global stability and
peace in the world as our allies are able
to buy energy from us rather than from
countries who don’t have our best in-
tentions in mind.
But as the world’s need for energy
grows, American companies are more
likely to care about being good stew-
ards of our creation compared with
those from other energy-producing na-
tions.
The United States cut carbon emis-
sions by 14 percent since 2005 while
global emissions rose 26 percent over
the same period. Of all the G20 coun-
tries, we have the best record recently
on carbon emissions and reductions.
In Texas our market-based approach
to energy is leading the way even as
our economy continues to boom. Fur-
thermore, a thriving economy is abso-
lutely essential to creating and deploy-
ing the innovative solutions we need to
face the environmental challenges of
the future.
So when it comes to the Green New
Deal, let’s stop looking to socialism for
answers and start looking to places
like Texas.
This Green New Deal would be dev-
astating to American jobholders, harm-
ful to our allies around the world, and
it is also counterproductive to advanc-
ing protections to our environment.
Mr. Speaker, I will continue to firm-
ly oppose this outlandish and unreal-
istic idea.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
CLOUD) for giving us great thoughts
about the impacts of what the Green
New Deal would actually mean for
Americans and jobs in the United
States of America.
As the gentleman from Kansas (Mr.
ESTES) makes his way to the micro-
phone, I just want to share with you
one study that was released today by
the American Action Forum. It says
that the Green New Deal will cost a
startling $93 trillion over 10 years.
Now, put that into perspective: That
is equivalent to $600,000 per household.
To generate $93 trillion in income tax
revenue, we would have to tax every
household earning more than $30,000 at
a 100 percent rate for 10 years.
If every household earning over more
than $200,000 were taxed at 100 percent
for 10 years, it would still fall $58 tril-
lion short. So you can just see that this
does not work.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Kansas (Mr. ESTES), a member of
the powerful Ways and Means Com-
mittee.
Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from Washington (Mr.
NEWHOUSE).
You know, those numbers are just
shocking, as you related, in terms of
how it would devastate the American
economy and American families.
Mr. Speaker, tonight I rise to add my
voice in opposition to this so-called
Green New Deal.
You know, this outrageous proposal
would be a massive government take-
over of every facet of our daily lives.
From how we eat, to how we travel,
this so-called Green New Deal calls to
replace every building and car in
America within 10 years. It would cost
up to $93 trillion. That would cost
every American household an extra
$65,300 per year.
That might be crumbs in New York
and California, but it is not in Kansas,
where the average family income is
$56,422.
If the crushing tax increase on every
family isn’t bad enough, the plan also
calls for an eventual end to air travel.
As representative of the Air Capital
of the World, clearly, this is alarming.
According to the Kansas Department
of Transportation, aviation is respon-
sible for 91,300 jobs in Kansas and has
an economic impact on our state of
$20.6 billion.
Grounding air travel would decimate
jobs in Kansas, just as the entire Green
New Deal would devastate the economy
of our country.
The only thing this proposal accom-
plishes is exposing the priorities of
politicians who are determined to in-
crease taxes and expand government to
impose their agenda on every family,
farm, and business.
Kansans know how to protect our en-
vironment and quality of life without
being told to do so by government offi-
cials in Washington, D.C., and I stand
with them in opposing this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman
NEWHOUSE for leading this special
order.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Kansas (Mr.
ESTES). I appreciate very much him
sharing his thoughts about the Green
New Deal and the impacts it would
have on our country—something that
we just absolutely cannot afford. So I
appreciate very much his time this
evening, and I thank him.
Mr. Speaker, I recently read an arti-
cle from Reuters titled ‘‘Labor Unions
fear Democrats’ Green New Deal poses
job threat.’’
I didn’t write that title. That is what
they did. In it, a spokesman for a
major union in this country speaks on
the legislation’s language, calling for a
transition for union jobs. He says,
‘‘We’ve heard words like ‘just transi-
tion’ before, but what does that really
mean? Our Members are worried about
putting food on the table.’’
Another labor union, the Laborers’
International Union of North America
states, ‘‘We will never settle for ‘just
transition’ language as a solution to
the job losses that will surely come
from some of the policies in the resolu-
tion.’’
Mr. Speaker, hardworking Americans
across the country deserve to be heard.
Unfortunately, as this article states,
neither union was contacted for input
before the legislation was released.
And with that, Mr. Speaker, I yield
time to the gentleman from Califor-
nia’s First District (Mr. LAMALFA), my
good friend and a fellow farmer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.053 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2095
February 25, 2019
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, thank
you to the gentleman from Washington
(Mr. NEWHOUSE).
Indeed, what we know so far about
the Green New Deal, it is more like a
green pipe dream. It would lead to a
total government takeover of just
about every aspect of our lives.
Now, it is interesting to watch, since
the deal was proposed not that many
days ago, my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle, many of them are
starting to back away from it. There
were 67 coauthors on that. We are see-
ing some starting to back away, say-
ing, well, this really isn’t the dream or
the deal; it is more of an aspiration.
Well, by the time you freaked out
half the country with these ideas that
you put into legislation, maybe we
need a little more heads-up on what
really is the goal here.
Some of the guarantees in it:
A government paycheck for those un-
willing to work.
Is that really in there? What are we
talking about here?
The cost of this implementation? $93
trillion, quadruple of what our national
debt is right now. The cost will be
passed on, of course, to—as always—
the taxpayer, to families, to those
struggling—especially middle-income
folks—who could see their energy bills
going up from already at a high point
to an additional $4,000 annually per
family.
We should really have our supporters
of this bill benefit from the lessons
learned in California on the high-speed
rail boondoggle that tripled in a short
amount of time soon after it was bare-
ly approved, $10 billion by the tax-
payers to a nearly $100 billion project,
all under the guise of saving green-
house gases.
Except during the construction of the
high-speed rail in California, it will
make a whole bunch of greenhouse
gases with the equipment involved, so
we are going to plant trees to offset
that. Yet, at the same time, they are
running the rails through hundreds of
acres of almond trees in the middle of
California that they are supposed to be
offsetting.
It is a reckless attempt to undermine
America’s increasing dominance—not
just energy independence—but now
dominance in energy around the world.
It ignores the basic reality; a lot of
what America was built upon were in-
deed fossil fuels, those known reserves
that we have in this country.
Now, let’s talk a little bit about the
Paris accord that I think President
Trump rightfully withdrew the United
States from. The goal being greenhouse
gas reduction, CO2 reduction.
Well, when you look at the stats, who
is already leading the way outside of
the accord? The U.S.—of those western
countries—is the only one that has ac-
tually reduced its number of CO2 in
that amount of time.
We are the ones doing it. You know
why? Because we have freedom; be-
cause we have the ability to innovate
here, to invent the new technology, to
invent the things that are going to
help us do things better and cleaner
into the future.
I don’t hear a lot of talk on this
about new hydropower, which is clean
and ready to go any time you turn on
the switch to the gates to allow the
turbines to flow.
Biomass. In my area of the country—
the Western Caucus, my colleagues
here—we burn part of the west every
year. We should be putting that fuel
into clean burning power plants to
make electricity, cleaning our forest,
making it more fire-safe, better for the
wildlife, better for the environment,
not having all that CO2 go up. And then
creating jobs in our backyard to get
people to work from cleaning up the
over-inventory the U.S. forest and
BLM has from allowing their forest to
run rampant with no management for
the last 100 years.
These are things we should be talk-
ing about, not this green dream thing.
Instead, we are going to hear nothing
but climate change, climate change,
climate change, with solutions that
just harness or handcuff the economy,
the jobs, and the people of this country
inside this chamber and in the real
world out there where people actually
produce things.
We need to focus on the things that
we know can work, producing energy
with hydropower. Yes, with nuclear
power, no emissions. With biomass,
help clean that inventory that burns
hundreds of thousands of acres every
year of forest land, and put it to work
for us.
That is what we are going to be suc-
cessful at, because the United States is
always number one in developing the
new technology, the new ways to do
cleaner, better, more efficiently, in-
stead of handcuffing our economy and
that innovation and exporting it some-
where else.
I do agree with my colleagues that
have spoken here tonight. And in send-
ing the message, we need to strongly
oppose this bill and get back to some-
thing that actually works for the
working people of this country.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the time of
the gentleman.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from California
(Mr. LAMALFA). I appreciate very much
him sharing his thoughts—and Califor-
nia’s thoughts—about what we have in
front of us and the impact it would
have.
And if anyone is thinking that this is
just a bunch of Republicans that are
thinking this way and have these
thoughts, let me share with you some
quotes from some of my friends across
the aisle, Mr. Speaker.
Representative JEFF VAN DREW, a
Democrat from New Jersey. He says of
the Green New Deal, ‘‘It is not a seri-
ous policy proposal. It seeks the com-
plete reorganization of American soci-
ety, which took hundreds of years to
build, in a matter of 10 years.’’
Or the senior Senator from Cali-
fornia—Mr. LAMALFA’s state—just
stated last week that ‘‘There’s no way
to pay for it.’’
From my own State, my colleague,
Representative RICK LARSEN just said
recently, ‘‘It is difficult to support the
resolution right now when one of the
lead sponsors says one of the inten-
tions is to make air travel unneces-
sary.’’ He is the chairman of the House
Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure Subcommittee on Avia-
tion.
My neighbor from Oregon, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, chairman of the House Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure,
said, ‘‘The idea that in 5 or 10 years
we’re not going to consume any more
fossil fuels is technologically impos-
sible. We can have grand goals, but
let’s be realistic about how we get
there.’’
Even our own Speaker of the House,
Ms. PELOSI from California, said of the
proposal, ‘‘The green dream or what-
ever they call it, nobody knows what it
is, but they’re for it, right?’’
So you can see, it is not just us, this
is a bipartisan feeling about the Green
New Deal that it needs a lot more con-
sideration.
Mr. Speaker, at this point, I yield to
the gentleman from South Carolina
(Mr. NORMAN), my good friend from the
Palmetto State, Fifth District, and a
member of the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman NEWHOUSE for leading the
effort on this.
And I rise to oppose the Green New
Deal for many of the reasons that have
already been said, but this is the most
amateurish resolution that has come
before this Congress in a long time, not
from only my point of view but many
others who have served longer than I
have.
We were asked to consider a policy
that would change every aspect of
American life, deciding what we eat,
how we travel, how we stay warm, and
even what jobs we can take and what
homes we are allowed to live in.
We are presented with a total over-
haul of society, but with no expla-
nation how. There is no roadmap, no
method of implementation, and, of
course, no price tag. All we know is
that this will be dictated by a cabal of
better-knowing bureaucrats. Yet every
estimate shows just how unrealistic
this green deal really is.
According to the American Action
Forum, the total cost could run as high
as $93 trillion over 10 years.
b 2045
This totals 21 times our current Fed-
eral budget of $4.4 trillion. That can
only mean one thing for the American
people: taxes, taxes, and more taxes.
This resolution is so lacking in de-
tail, we might as well vote on the mer-
its of a scrap of paper that says, ‘‘solve
the problem.’’ This is no way to gov-
ern.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.055 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2096 February 25, 2019
The only details we do have are from
a survey that enjoyed a brief existence
online before it was removed out of em-
barrassment and has since been denied.
One source of embarrassment was the
call to get rid of cows. To my knowl-
edge, this is the first time that a Mem-
ber of this House has called for bovine
genocide.
That the deal’s supporters are now
hiding these facts reveals that the true
agenda behind the Green New Deal is
too horrifying to be shared with any of
the public. As a rule of thumb, any law
that cannot be shared with the people
cannot serve the people.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from South Caro-
lina for his input on this important
issue. It underscores the cost to the
Nation if this were adopted and its im-
pact on our economy. I thank the gen-
tleman for that tremendous help.
I thank all my colleagues, members
of the Congressional Western Caucus,
for participating tonight to point out
some of the fallacies of the Green New
Deal. Certainly, it is something that,
as legislation is proposed, this is the
process: We talk about what we like,
what we don’t like, and we offer alter-
natives, trying to find solutions in a bi-
partisan way.
Republicans have always advocated
to continue looking at these issues of
climate change, of energy use and pro-
duction, of issues facing the environ-
ment. We are always looking for ways
to innovate, to adequately fund re-
search, but, basically, underscoring all
of that, relying on the use of sound
science for any decisions that we make,
to make sure that the policies that we
adopt are those that will be sustaining
and good for not only our country, but
for the world.
So we base our decisions on science,
not politics. As Republicans, as mem-
bers of the Congressional Western Cau-
cus, which is a bipartisan organization,
we look forward to debating seriously
and making serious decisions in regard
to these very important issues that
face our country, face the next genera-
tion, and face the world.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to con-
tinuing debates on this important
topic, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. HOYER) for today.
Mr. DEFAZIO (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of inclem-
ent weather.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 47 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, February 26, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
BIENNIAL REPORT OF BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF OFFICE OF CON-
GRESSIONAL WORKPLACE
RIGHTS
U.S. CONGRESS, OFFICE OF CONGRES-
SIONAL WORKPLACE RIGHTS,
Washington, DC, February 25, 2019.
Speaker NANCY PELOSI,
Office of the Speaker,
The Capitol, Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI: Section 102(b) of the
Congressional Accountability Act of 1995
(CAA) requires the Board of Directors of the
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights
(OCWR) to biennially submit a report con-
taining recommendations regarding Federal
workplace rights, safety and health, and pub-
lic access laws and regulations that should
be made applicable to Congress and its agen-
cies. The purpose of this report is to ensure
that the rights afforded by the CAA to legis-
lative branch employees and visitors to Cap-
itol Hill and district offices remain equiva-
lent to those in the private sector and the
executive branch of the Federal government.
As such, these recommendations support the
intent of Congress to keep pace with ad-
vances in workplace rights and public access
laws.
Accompanying this letter is a copy of our
section 102(b) report—titled ‘‘Recommenda-
tions for Improvements to the Congressional
Accountability Act’’—for consideration by
the 116th Congress. We welcome discussion
on these issues and urge that Congress act on
these important recommendations.
Your office is receiving this initial copy
prior to it being uploaded to our public
website. On March 4, 2019, this report will be
disseminated to the larger Congressional
community and available on www.ocwr.gov.
As required by the Congressional Account-
ability Act, 2 U.S.C. § 1302(b), I request that
this publication be printed in the Congres-
sional Record, and referred to the commit-
tees of the House of Representatives and
Senate with jurisdiction.
Sincerely,
SUSAN TSUI GRUNDMANN,
Executive Director.
116TH CONGRESS—RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IM-
PROVEMENTS TO THE CONGRESSIONAL AC-
COUNTABILITY ACT
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights—
Board of Directors’ Biennial Report re-
quired by § 102(b) of the Congressional Ac-
countability Act issued at the conclusion of
the 115th Congress (2017–2018) for consid-
eration by the 116th Congress
Statement From the Board of Directors
The Congressional Accountability Act of
1995 (CAA) embodies a promise by Congress
to the American public that it will hold
itself accountable to the same federal work-
place and accessibility laws that it applies to
private sector employers and executive
branch agencies. This landmark legislation
was also crafted to provide for ongoing re-
view of the workplace and accessibility laws
that apply to Congress. Section 102(b) of the
CAA thus tasks the Board of Directors of the
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights
(OCWR)—formerly the Office of Compli-
ance—to review legislation and regulations
to ensure that workplace protections in the
legislative branch are on par with private
sector and executive branch agencies. Ac-
cordingly, every Congress, the Board reports
on: whether or to what degree [provisions of
Federal law (including regulations) relating
to (A) the terms and conditions of employ-
ment (including hiring, promotion, demo-
tion, termination, salary, wages, overtime
compensation, benefits, work assignments or
reassignments, grievance and disciplinary
procedures, protection from discrimination
in personnel actions, occupational health
and safety, and family and medical and other
leave) of employees; and (B) access to public
services and accommodations] . . . are appli-
cable or inapplicable to the legislative
branch, and . . . with respect to provisions
inapplicable to the legislative branch,
whether such provisions should be made ap-
plicable to the legislative branch. This sec-
tion of the CAA also requires that the pre-
siding officers of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate cause our report to be
printed in the Congressional Record and
refer the report to committees of the House
and Senate with jurisdiction.
On December 21, 2018, as we were in the
process of finalizing our Section 102(b) Re-
port for the 115th Congress, the Congres-
sional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform
Act, S. 3749, was signed into law. Not since
the passage of the CAA in 1995 has there been
a more significant moment in the evolution
of legislative branch workplace rights. The
new law focuses on protecting victims,
strengthening transparency, holding viola-
tors accountable for their personal conduct,
and improving the adjudication process.
Some of the changes in the CAA Reform Act
are effective immediately, such as the name
change of our Office, but most will be effec-
tive 180 days from enactment, i.e., on June
19, 2019. The CAA Reform Act incorporates
several of the recommendations that the
OCWR has made to Congress in past Section
102(b) Reports and in other contexts, such as
in testimony before the Committee on House
Administration (CHA) as part of that com-
mittee’s comprehensive review in 2018 of the
protections that the CAA offers legislative
branch employees against harassment and
discrimination in the congressional work-
place. These changes include the following:
Mandatory Anti-Discrimination, Anti-Harass-
ment, and Anti-Retaliation Training
The Board has consistently recommended
in its past biennial Section 102(b) Reports
and in testimony before Congress that anti-
discrimination, anti-harassment, and anti-
reprisal training should be mandatory for all
Members, officers, employees and staff of
Congress and the other employing offices in
the legislative branch. Last year, the House
and the Senate adopted resolutions (S. Res
330 and H. Res. 630) that require all of its
Members, Officers and employees, as well as
interns, detailees, and fellows, to complete
an anti-harassment and anti-discrimination
training program. We are pleased that the
CAA Reform Act includes these broader
mandates for the congressional workforce at
large. Under the new law, employing offices
(other than the House of Representatives and
the Senate) are also required to develop and
implement a program to train and educate
covered employees on the rights and protec-
tions provided under the CAA, including the
procedures available under CAA title IV,
which describes the OCWR administrative
and judicial dispute resolution procedures.
509(a), 2 U.S.C. § 1438(a). Employing offices
must submit a report on the implementation
of their CAA-required training and education
programs to the CHA and the Committee on
Rules and Administration of the Senate no
later than 45 days after the beginning of each
Congress, beginning with the 117th Congress.
For the 116th Congress, this report is due no
later than 180 days after the enactment of
the CAA Reform Act, which is June 19, 2019.
509(b)(1), (b)(2), 2 U.S.C. § 1438(b)(1), (b)(2)
The OCWR stands ready to assist employ-
ing offices in developing their anti-discrimi-
nation, anti-harassment, and anti-reprisal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE7.057 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2097
February 25, 2019
programs by providing training opportuni-
ties and materials that are easily under-
stood, practical rather than legalistic, prov-
en effective, and which emphasize the change
of culture on Capitol Hill. Through these
programs, we can achieve the goal of a legis-
lative branch that is free from discrimina-
tion, harassment and reprisal.
Adopt All Notice-Posting Requirements that
Exist Under the Federal Anti-Discrimina-
tion, Anti-Harassment, and Other Work-
place Rights Laws Covered Under the
CAA
The Board has long been concerned that
employees who experience harassment or
discrimination in the legislative branch may
be deterred from taking action simply due to
a lack of awareness of their rights under the
CAA. The Board has therefore consistently
recommended in its Section 102(b) reports
that Congress adopt all notice-posting re-
quirements that exist under the Federal
antidiscrimination, anti-harassment, and
other workplace rights laws covered under
the CAA. Through permanent postings, cur-
rent and new employees remain informed
about their rights regardless of their loca-
tion, employee turnover, or other changes in
the workplace. The notices also serve as a re-
minder to employers about their workplace
responsibilities and the legal ramifications
of violating the law. They are also a visible
commitment by Congress to the workplace
protections embodied in the CAA. The CAA
Reform Act now requires that employing of-
fices post and keep posted in conspicuous
places on their premises the notices provided
by the OCWR, which must contain informa-
tion about employees’ rights and the OCWR’s
Administrative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
process, along with OCWR contact informa-
tion. 2 U.S.C. § 1362.
Name Change
As the Board advised Congress in 2014,
changing the name of the office to ‘‘Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights’’ would bet-
ter reflect our mission, raise our public pro-
file in connection with our mandate to edu-
cate the legislative branch, and make it easi-
er for employees to identify us when they
need assistance. Effective December 21, 2018,
the Reform Act renamed the ‘‘Office of Com-
pliance’’ as the ‘‘Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights.’’ This name change noti-
fies legislative branch employees that the
Office is tasked with protecting their work-
place rights through its programs of dispute
resolution, education, and enforcement. As
the Office embraces its new name, it remains
committed to the mission of advancing
workplace rights, safety and health, and ac-
cessibility for workers and visitors on Cap-
itol Hill, as envisioned in the CAA and the
CAA Reform Act.
Extending Coverage to Interns, Fellows, and
Detailees
The Board also has consistently rec-
ommended in its Section 102(b) Reports that
Congress extend the coverage and protec-
tions of the anti-discrimination, anti-harass-
ment, and anti-reprisal provisions of the
CAA to all staff, including interns, fellows,
and detailees working in any employing of-
fice in the legislative branch, regardless of
how or whether they are paid. The CAA Re-
form Act amends section 201 of the CAA—
which applies title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 (outlawing discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, or national ori-
gin), the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act, the Rehabilitation Act, and title I of
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)—
to apply the protections and remedies of
those laws to current and former ‘‘unpaid
staff.’’ ‘‘Unpaid staff’’ is defined in the Re-
form Act as ‘‘any staff member of an employ-
ing office who carries out official duties of
the employing office but who is not paid by
the employing office for carrying out such
duties . . . including an intern, an individual
detailed to an employing office, and an indi-
vidual participating in a fellowship
program[.]’’ These laws apply to unpaid staff
‘‘in the same manner and to the same extent
as such subsections apply with respect to a
covered employee[.]’’ 201(d), 2 U.S.C. § 1311(d).
The Reform Act thus ensures that unpaid in-
terns, fellows, and detailees are covered by
the CAA.
Extending Coverage to Library of Congress
Employees
Prior to 2018, only certain provisions of the
CAA applied to employees of the Library of
Congress (LOC), and the Board expressed its
support for proposals to amend the CAA to
include the LOC within the definition of
‘‘employing office,’’ thereby extending CAA
protections to LOC employees for most pur-
poses. The 2018 omnibus spending bill amend-
ed the CAA to bring the LOC and its employ-
ees within the OCWR’s (then OOC’s) jurisdic-
tion. That bill amended the definition of
‘‘covered employee’’ under the CAA to in-
clude employees of the LOC, and it added the
LOC as an ‘‘employing office’’ for all pur-
poses except the CAA’s labor-management
relations provisions. Among other changes,
the bill gave to LOC employees a choice on
how to pursue complaints of employment
discrimination—allowing them to pursue a
complaint either with the LOC’s Office of
Equal Employment Opportunity and Diver-
sity Programs or with the OCWR. The Re-
form Act incorporates these statutory
changes and further clarifies the rights of
LOC employees in this regard as well as oth-
ers. Its provisions are effective retroactive
to March 23, 2018. 2 U.S.C. § 1401(d)(5).
Changes to the Dispute Resolution Proce-
dures Under the CAA
In testimony before the CHA as part of
that committee’s comprehensive review of
the CAA and the protections that law offers
legislative branch employees against harass-
ment and discrimination in the congres-
sional workplace, OCWR Executive Director
Susan Tsui Grundmann conveyed the Board
of Directors’ considered recommendations
for changes to the ADR procedures set forth
in the Act, discussed below.
Pre-Reform Act Procedures Under the CAA
As stated above, the effective date for the
new ADR procedures under the Reform Act
is June 19, 2019. Currently, prior to filing a
complaint with the OCWR pursuant to sec-
tion 405 of the Act or in the U.S. District
Court, the CAA requires that an employee
satisfy two jurisdictional prerequisites: man-
datory counseling and mandatory mediation.
If a claim is not resolved during the coun-
seling phase and the employee wishes to pur-
sue the matter, the CAA currently requires
the employee to file a request for mediation
with the OCWR. When a case proceeds to me-
diation, the employing office is notified
about the claim and the parties attempt to
settle the matter with the assistance of a
trained neutral mediator appointed by the
OCWR.
If the parties fail to resolve their dispute
in mediation, a covered employee may elect
to proceed directly to the third step in the
process, either by filing an administrative
complaint with the OCWR, in which case the
complaint would be decided by an OCWR
Hearing Officer in a confidential setting, or
by filing a lawsuit in a U.S. District Court,
in which case the proceedings would be a
matter of public record. By statute, this
election—which is the employee’s alone—
must occur not later than 90 days, but not
sooner than 30 days, after the end of the pe-
riod of mediation. This statutory timing re-
quirement creates a 30-day period—some-
times referred to as a ‘‘cooling off period’’—
before the employee can proceed. A party
dissatisfied with the decision of the Hearing
Officer may file a petition for review with
the OCWR Board of Directors, and any deci-
sion of the Board may be appealed to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Cir-
cuit. If, instead of filing a request for an ad-
ministrative hearing, the employee files a
civil suit in Federal district court, an appeal
of that decision would proceed under the
rules of the appropriate U.S. Court of Ap-
peals. As is discussed below, the Board has
advocated in the legislative process for sev-
eral procedural changes now provided for in
the Reform Act, which potentially shorten
the case handling process without compro-
mising its effectiveness in resolving disputes
under the CAA.
Counseling and Mediation Changes
In testimony before the CHA, Executive
Director Grundmann explained that coun-
selors often provide covered employees with
their first opportunity to discuss their work-
place concerns and to learn about their stat-
utory protections under the CAA. She con-
veyed the Board’s view that, although coun-
seling need not remain mandatory under the
CAA, the CAA should not be amended in such
a manner as to eliminate the availability of
an opportunity for employees to voluntarily
seek confidential assistance from our office.
Under the new procedures set forth in the
CAA Reform Act, counseling will no longer
be mandatory. Rather, the CAA Reform Act
provides for the optional services of a con-
fidential advisor—an attorney who can,
among other things, provide information to
covered employees, on a privileged and con-
fidential basis, about their rights under the
CAA. 2 U.S.C. § 1402(a)(3).
As with counseling, the Executive Director
also conveyed to the CHA the Board’s view
supporting the elimination of mediation as a
mandatory jurisdictional prerequisite to as-
serting claims under the CAA. The Board
nonetheless recommended that mediation be
maintained as a valuable option available to
those parties who mutually seek to settle
their dispute. The OCWR’s experience over
many years has been that a large percentage
of controversies were successfully resolved
without formal adversarial proceedings, due
in large part to its mediation processes. Me-
diation can save the parties from burden-
some litigation, which can be expensive,
time consuming, and a drain on resources
and workplace productivity. Mediation also
gives the parties an opportunity to explore
resolving the dispute themselves without
having a result imposed upon them. Further-
more, OCWR mediators are highly skilled
professionals who have the sensitivity, ex-
pertise, and flexibility to customize the me-
diation process to meet the concerns of the
parties. In short, the effectiveness of medi-
ation as a tool to resolve workplace disputes
cannot be understated. Under the CAA Re-
form Act, mediation still remains available,
but it is optional. It is no longer a jurisdic-
tional prerequisite to asserting claims under
the CAA, and it will take place only if re-
quested and only if both parties agree.
‘‘Cooling Off’’ Period
As stated above, the CAA presently re-
quires an employee to wait 30 days after me-
diation ends to pursue a formal administra-
tive complaint or a lawsuit in a U.S. District
Court. In her testimony before the CHA, Ex-
ecutive Director Grundmann conveyed the
Board’s recommendation that this period be
eliminated from the statute. The Reform Act
amendments do so.
As the changes set forth in the Reform Act
take effect, the Board will carefully monitor
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.038 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2098 February 25, 2019
their effectiveness and advise Congress of its
findings in this regard. In this Report, we
also highlight key recommendations that
the Board has made in past Section 102(b)
Reports that have not yet been implemented.
(see note 1.) We continue to believe that the
adoption of these recommendations, dis-
cussed below, will best promote a model
workplace in the legislative branch. The
Board welcomes an opportunity to further
discuss these recommendations and asks for
careful consideration of the requests by the
116th Congress.
Sincerely,
BARBARA CHILDS WALLACE,
Chair, Board of Direc-
tors.
BARBARA L. CAMENS.
ALAN V. FRIEDMAN.
ROBERTA L. HOLZWARTH.
SUSAN S. ROBFOGEL.
Recommendations for the 116th Congress
Apply the Wounded Warrior Federal Leave
Act of 2015 to the Legislative Branch
(Public Law 114–75)
The Wounded Warrior Federal Leave Act,
enacted in 2015, affords wounded warriors the
flexibility to receive medical care as they
transition to serving the nation in a new ca-
pacity. Specifically, new federal employees
who are also disabled veterans with a 30% or
more disability may receive 104 hours of
‘‘wounded warrior leave’’ during their first
year in the federal workforce so that they
may seek medical treatment for their serv-
ice-connected disabilities without being
forced to take unpaid leave or forego their
medical appointments. The Act was passed
as a way to show gratitude and deep appre-
ciation for the hardship and sacrifices of vet-
erans and, in particular wounded warriors, in
service to the United States. Although some
employing offices in the legislative branch
offer Wounded Warrior Federal Leave, the
Board reiterates the recommendation made
in its 2016 Section 102(b) Report to extend
the benefits of that Act to the legislative
branch with enforcement and implementa-
tion under the provisions of the CAA.
Approve the Board’s Pending Regulations
The CAA directs the OCWR to promulgate
regulations implementing the CAA to keep
Congress current and accountable to the
workplace laws that apply to private and
public employers. The Board is required to
amend its regulations to achieve parity, un-
less there is good cause shown to deviate
from the private sector or executive branch
regulations. The Board recommended in its
2016 section 102(b) Report to the 115th Con-
gress that it approve its pending regulations
that would implement the Family and Med-
ical Leave Act (FMLA), ADA titles II and III,
and the Uniformed Services Employment
and Reemployment Act (USERRA) in the
legislative branch. The Board-adopted regu-
lations ensure that same-sex spouses are rec-
ognized under the FMLA, in accordance with
Supreme Court rulings, and further extend
important protections for military care-
givers and service members. The Board’s
adopted ADA regulations will avoid costly
construction and contracting errors that re-
sult when there is uncertainty or ambiguity
regarding what standards apply, and will im-
prove access to Capitol Hill for visitors and
employees with disabilities. The Board of Di-
rectors also transmitted to Congress its
adopted USERRA regulations on December 3,
2008 and identified ‘‘good cause’’ to modify
the executive branch regulations to imple-
ment more effectively the rights and protec-
tions for veterans as applied to the Senate,
the House of Representatives, and the other
employing offices. These rules are necessary
to fulfill the commitments set forth in
USERRA to our nation’s veterans in the leg-
islative branch.
Analysis of Pending FMLA Regulations:
On June 22, 2016, the Board of Directors
adopted and transmitted to Congress for ap-
proval its regulations necessary for imple-
menting the FMLA in the legislative branch.
In accordance with the CAA, those regula-
tions are the same as the substantive regula-
tions adopted by the Secretary of Labor, 2
U.S.C. § 1312(d)(2), except where good cause
was shown that a modification would be
more effective in implementing FMLA rights
under the CAA. We seek congressional ap-
proval of these important FMLA regulations.
The FMLA regulations provide needed clar-
ity on important aspects of the law, includ-
ing essential requirements for certifying
leave and documentation, defining ‘‘spouse’’
to include same-sex spouses as required by
the Supreme Court precedent, and adding
military caregiver leave. Adoption of these
regulations will reduce uncertainty for both
employing offices and employees and provide
greater predictability in the congressional
workplace. First, these FMLA regulations
add the military leave provisions of the
FMLA, enacted under the National Defense
Authorization Acts (NDAA) for Fiscal Years
2008 and 2010 (see note 2), that extend the
availability of FMLA leave to family mem-
bers of the Regular Armed Forces for quali-
fying exigencies arising out of a service
member’s deployment. They also define
those deployments covered under these pro-
visions, extend FMLA military caregiver
leave for family members of current service
members to include an injury or illness that
existed prior to service and was aggravated
in the line of duty on active duty, and extend
FMLA military caregiver leave to family
members of certain veterans with serious in-
juries or illnesses. As noted, the FMLA
amendments providing additional rights and
protections for service members and their
families were enacted into law by the NDAA
for Fiscal Years 2008 and 2010. The congres-
sional committee reports that accompany
the NDAA for Fiscal Years 2008 and 2010 and
the amended FMLA provisions do not ‘‘de-
scribe the manner in which the provision of
the bill [relating to terms and conditions of
employment]... apply to the legislative
branch’’ or ‘‘include a statement of the rea-
sons the provision does not apply [to the leg-
islative branch]’’ (in the case of a provision
not applicable to the legislative branch), as
required by section 102(b)(3) of the CAA. (see
note 3)
Consequently, when the FMLA was amend-
ed to add these additional rights and protec-
tions, it was not clear whether Congress in-
tended that these additional rights and pro-
tections apply in the legislative branch. To
the extent that there may be an ambiguity
regarding the applicability to the legislative
branch of the 2008 and 2010 FMLA amend-
ments, the Board makes clear through these
regulations that the rights and protections
for military servicemembers apply in the
legislative branch, and that protections
under the CAA are in line with existing pub-
lic and private sector protections under the
FMLA. The Board-adopted FMLA regula-
tions implement leave protections of signifi-
cant importance to legislative branch em-
ployees and employing offices. Accordingly,
the Board recommends that Congress ap-
prove the Board’s adopted FMLA regula-
tions. Second, these regulations set forth the
revised definition of ‘‘spouse’’ under the
FMLA in light of the DOL’s February 25, 2015
Final Rule on the definition of spouse, and
the United States Supreme Court’s decision
in Obergefell v. Hodges (see note 4), which re-
quires a state to license a marriage between
two people of the same sex and to recognize
a marriage between two people of the same
sex when their marriage was lawfully li-
censed and performed out-of-state.
Analysis of Pending ADA Regulations:
Public access to Capitol Hill and con-
stituent access to district and state offices
has been a hallmark of many congresses. The
Board recommends that Congress approve its
adopted regulations implementing titles II
and III of the ADA to Capitol Hill and the
district offices. First, the Board’s ADA regu-
lations clarify which title II and title III reg-
ulations apply to the legislative branch. This
knowledge will undoubtedly save taxpayers
money by ensuring pre-construction review
of construction projects for ADA compli-
ance—rather than providing for only post-
construction inspections and costly redos
when the access is not adequate. Second,
under the regulations adopted by the Board,
all leased spaces must meet some basic ac-
cessibility requirements that apply to all
federal facilities that are leased or con-
structed. In this way, Congress will remain a
model for ADA compliance and public access.
Under the authority of the landmark CAA,
the OOC has made significant progress to-
wards making Capitol Hill more accessible
for persons with disabilities. Our efforts to
improve access to the buildings and facilities
on the campus are consistent with the pri-
ority guidance in the Board’s ADA regula-
tions, which it adopted in February 2016.
Congressional approval of those regulations
would reaffirm its commitment to provide
barrier-free access to the visiting public to
the Capitol Hill complex.
Analysis of Pending USERRA Regulations:
On December 3, 2008, the Board of Directors
adopted USERRA regulations to apply to the
legislative branch. Those regulations, trans-
mitted to Congress over 10 years ago, should
be immediately approved. They support our
nation’s veterans by requiring continuous
health care insurance and job protections for
the men and women of the service who have
supported our country’s freedoms. The 114th
Congress was particularly focused on issues
concerning veterans’ health, welfare, access,
and employment status. Approving the
USERRA regulations will assist service
members in attaining and retaining a job de-
spite the call to duty. The regulations com-
mit to anti-discrimination, anti-retaliation,
and job protection under USERRA. Approv-
ing USERRA regulations would signal con-
gressional encouragement to veterans to
seek work in the legislative branch where
veteran employment levels have historically
been well below the percentage in the execu-
tive branch, or even in the private sector,
which is not under a mandate to provide a
preference in hiring to veterans. Indeed,
many reports have put the level of veteran
employees on congressional staffs at two to
three percent or less. The Veterans Congres-
sional Fellowship Caucus, started in 2014, has
supported efforts to bridge the gap between
military service and legislative work. In ad-
dition, the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Pro-
gram exists in the House Chief Administra-
tive Officer (CAO) where Members can hire
veteran fellows for 2-year terms. In the Sen-
ate, the Armed Forces Internship Program
exists to provide on-the-job training for re-
turning veterans with disabilities. An exten-
sion of these laudable efforts should include
the long-delayed passage of the Board’s
adopted USERRA regulations which imple-
ment protections for initial hiring and pro-
tect against discrimination based on mili-
tary service. Congress can lead by example
by applying the USERRA law encompassed
in the CAA.
Approving the three sets of Board-adopted
regulations outlined above would not only
signify a commitment to the laws of the
CAA—which passed in 1995 with nearly unan-
imous, bi-cameral, and bipartisan support—
but would further help legislative branch
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.038 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2099
February 25, 2019
managers effectively implement the laws’
protections and benefits on behalf of the
workforce.
Protect Employees and Applicants Who Are
or Have Been in Bankruptcy (11 U.S.C.
§ 525)
Section 525(a) of title 11 of the U.S. Code
provides that ‘‘a governmental unit’’ may
not deny employment to, terminate the em-
ployment of, or discriminate with respect to
employment against, a person because that
person is or has been a debtor under the
bankruptcy statutes. This provision cur-
rently does not apply to the legislative
branch. Reiterating the recommendations
made in the 1996, 1998, 2000 and 2006 Section
102(b) reports, the Board advises that the
rights and protections against discrimina-
tion on this basis should be applied to em-
ploying offices within the legislative branch.
Prohibit Discharge of Employees Who Are or
Have Been Subject to Garnishment (15
U.S.C. § 1674(A))
Section 1674(a) of title 15 of the U.S. Code
prohibits discharge of any employee because
his or her earnings ‘‘have been subject to
garnishment for any one indebtedness.’’ This
section is limited to private employers, so it
currently has no application to the legisla-
tive branch. For the reasons set forth in the
1996, 1998, 2000 and 2006 Section 102(b) Re-
ports, the Board recommends that the rights
and protections against discrimination on
this basis should be applied to employing of-
fices within the legislative branch.
Provide Whistleblower Protections to the
Legislative Branch
Civil service law provides broad protection
to whistleblowers in the executive branch to
safeguard workers against reprisal for re-
porting violations of laws, rules, or regula-
tions, gross mismanagement, gross waste of
funds, abuse of authority, or a substantial
and specific danger to public health or safe-
ty. In the private sector, whistleblowers also
are often protected by provisions of specific
federal laws. However, these provisions do
not apply to the legislative branch. The
OCWR has received a number of inquiries
from congressional employees concerned
about the lack of whistleblower protections.
The absence of specific statutory protection
such as that provided under 5 U.S.C.
§ 2302(b)(8) chills the disclosure of such infor-
mation. Granting whistleblower protection
could significantly improve the rights and
protections afforded to legislative branch
employees in an area fundamental to the in-
stitutional integrity of the legislative
branch by uncovering waste and fraud and
safeguarding the budget.
The Board has recommended in its pre-
vious Section 102(b) reports and continues to
recommend that Congress provide whistle-
blower reprisal protections to legislative
branch employees comparable to that pro-
vided to executive branch employees under 5
U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8), and 5 U.S.C. § 1221. Addi-
tionally, as discussed below, the Board rec-
ommends that the Office also be granted in-
vestigatory and prosecutorial authority over
whistleblower reprisal complaints, by incor-
porating into the CAA the authority granted
to the Office of Special Counsel, which inves-
tigates and prosecutes claims of whistle-
blower reprisal in the executive branch.
Provide Subpoena Authority to Obtain Infor-
mation Needed for Safety & Health Inves-
tigations and Require Records To Be
Kept of Workplace Injuries and Illnesses
The CAA applies the broad protections of
section 5 of the Occupational Safety and
Health Act (OSHAct) to the congressional
workplace. The OCWR enforces the OSHAct
in the legislative branch much in the same
way the Secretary of Labor enforces the
OSHAct in the private sector. Under the
CAA, the OCWR is required to conduct safety
and health inspections of covered employing
offices at least once each Congress and in re-
sponse to any request, and to provide em-
ploying offices with technical assistance to
comply with the OSHAct’s requirements.
But Congress and its agencies are still ex-
empt from critical OSHAct requirements im-
posed upon American businesses. Under the
CAA, employing offices in the legislative
branch are not subject to investigative sub-
poenas to aid in inspections as are private
sector employers under the OSHAct. Simi-
larly, Congress exempted itself from the
OSHAct’s recordkeeping requirements per-
taining to workplace injuries and illnesses
that apply to the private sector. The Board
recommends that legislative branch employ-
ing offices be subject to the investigatory
subpoena provisions contained in OSHAct
§ 8(b) and that legislative branch employing
offices be required to keep records of work-
place injuries and illnesses under OSHAct
§ 8(c), 29 U.S.C. § 657(c).
Adopt Recordkeeping Requirements Under
Federal Workplace Rights Laws
The Board, in several Section 102(b) re-
ports, has recommended and continues to
recommend that Congress adopt all record-
keeping requirements under Federal work-
place rights laws, including title VII. Al-
though some employing offices in the legis-
lative branch keep personnel records, there
are no legal requirements under the CAA to
do so.
ENDNOTES
1. The Board has long advocated for legislation
granting the OCWR General Counsel the authority
to investigate and prosecute complaints of discrimi-
nation, harassment and reprisal in order to assist
victims and to improve the adjudicatory process
under the CAA. As discussed in this Report, the Re-
form Act establishes new procedures that are also
clearly intended to further these policy goals. Under
these circumstances, the Board believes that the
best course of action is to evaluate the efficacy of
the new Reform Act procedures once they have been
implemented before revisiting the issue of whether
the OCRW General Counsel should be granted such
investigatory and prosecutorial authority. Accord-
ingly, this recommendation is not discussed further
below.
2. Pub. L. 110–181, Div. A, Title V § 585(a)(2), (3)(A)–
(D) and Pub. L. 111–84, Div. A, Title V § 565(a)(1)(B)
and (4).
3. U.S.C. § 1302(3); House Committee on Armed
Services, H. Rpt. 110–146 (May 11, 2007), H. Rpt. 111–
166 (June 18, 2009)
4. Obergefell v. Hodges, 135 S. Ct. 2584 (2015).
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
223. A letter from the Acting Architect, Ar-
chitect of the Capitol, transmitting the
semiannual report of disbursements for the
operations of the Architect of the Capitol for
the period of July 1, 2018, through December
31, 2018, pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 1868a(a); Public
Law 113-76, div. I, title I, Sec. 1301(a); (128
Stat. 428) (H. Doc. No. 116—14); to the Com-
mittee on House Administration and ordered
to be printed.
224. A letter from the Executive Director,
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights,
transmitting biennial report on rec-
ommendations for improvements to the Con-
gressional Accountability Act, pursuant to
section 102(b) of the Congressional Account-
ability Act of 1995 received February 25, 2019,
pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 1302; jointly to the Com-
mittees on House Administration and Edu-
cation and Labor.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mrs. TORRES of California: Committee on
Rules. House Resolution 144. Resolution pro-
viding for consideration of the joint resolu-
tion (H.J. Res. 46) relating to a national
emergency declared by the President on Feb-
ruary 15, 2019 (Rept. 116–13). Referred to the
House Calendar.
Mr. RASKIN: Committee on Rules. House
Resolution 145. Resolution providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 8) to require a
background check for every firearm sale, and
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R.
1112) to amend chapter 44 of title 18, United
States Code, to strengthen the background
check procedures to be followed before a
Federal firearms licensee may transfer a
firearm to a person who is not such a li-
censee (Rept. 116–14). Referred to the House
Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. SCAN-
LON, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Mr. SERRANO, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. ZELDIN,
Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. DELBENE, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Mr. GARAMENDI, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. HIMES, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. NORTON, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. COLLINS of New
York, Mrs. LURIA, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. SIRES, Ms. MENG,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
DELGADO, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. COOK, Ms. SHERRILL,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
WILD, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. KIM, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. CLAY, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
REED, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT
of Georgia, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. LYNCH, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. COSTA, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. BEYER, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. COLE,
Mr. HURD of Texas, and Mr.
MCHENRY):
H.R. 1327. A bill to extend authorization for
the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2090, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.038 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2100 February 25, 2019
By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana):
H.R. 1328. A bill to establish the Office of
Internet Connectivity and Growth, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr.
TURNER):
H.R. 1329. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to allow for medical as-
sistance under Medicaid for inmates during
the 30-day period preceding release from a
public institution; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. BUCK:
H.R. 1330. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to conduct a special resource
study of the site known as ‘‘Amache’’ in the
State of Colorado; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mrs. CRAIG (for herself and Mr.
MAST):
H.R. 1331. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to reauthorize
certain programs relating to nonpoint source
management, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1332. A bill to address the high costs
of health care services, prescription drugs,
and health insurance coverage in the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on Ways and
Means, the Judiciary, Oversight and Reform,
Education and Labor, Rules, the Budget,
Armed Services, and House Administration,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 1333. A bill to amend the Mineral
Leasing Act to create a buffer in between oil
and gas drilling operations and homes, busi-
nesses, schools, and other buildings that re-
quire special protection, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN (for herself and
Mr. TURNER):
H.R. 1334. A bill to provide grants for
projects to acquire land and water for parks
and other outdoor recreation purposes and to
develop new or renovate existing outdoor
recreation facilities; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN (for herself, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, and Mr.
CRIST):
H.R. 1335. A bill to provide that the produc-
tion safety systems rule and the well control
rule in section 250 of title 30, Code of Federal
Regulations, shall have the same force and
effect of law as if such rules had been en-
acted by an Act of Congress, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 1336. A bill to require the Federal
Government to provide mental health serv-
ices to each child who has been separated
from one or more parent as a result of imple-
mentation of the Trump Administration’s
zero tolerance policy at the United States
border, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. RYAN, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. TONKO, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. KEATING, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. KAP-
TUR, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. RASKIN,
Ms. OMAR, and Ms. MCCOLLUM):
H.R. 1337. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to take certain actions related to
pesticides that may affect pollinators, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for him-
self, Mr. MEADOWS, and Mr. HARRIS):
H.R. 1338. A bill to provide for automatic
continuing appropriations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Appropriations,
and in addition to the Committee on the
Budget, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. CLINE, Mr. ARMSTRONG,
Mrs. LESKO, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr.
WOODALL, Mr. BARR, Mr. MITCHELL,
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
FLORES, Mr. BACON, Mr. MEADOWS,
Mr. STIVERS, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
ESTES, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. SMUCKER,
Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. STEIL, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. YOHO, Mr. JOYCE of
Ohio, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. BUDD, and Mrs. WAGNER):
H.R. 1339. A bill to enhance penalties for
theft of a firearm from a Federal firearms li-
censee, to establish a Mass Violence Preven-
tion Center, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas (for herself,
Mr. CLEAVER, and Mr. WATKINS):
H.R. 1340. A bill to designate the Quindaro
Townsite in Kansas City, Kansas, as a Na-
tional Commemorative Site; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. DESJARLAIS (for himself, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. GREEN of
Tennessee, and Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of
Tennessee):
H.R. 1341. A bill to designate the Mental
Health Residential Rehabilitation Treat-
ment Facility Expansion of the Department
of Veterans Affairs Alvin C. York Medical
Center in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, as the
‘‘Sergeant John Toombs Residential Reha-
bilitation Treatment Facility’’; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr.
GUTHRIE):
H.R. 1342. A bill to reauthorize the Money
Follows the Person Demonstration Program;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr.
UPTON):
H.R. 1343. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to remove an institu-
tional bias by making permanent the protec-
tion for recipients of home and community-
based services against spousal impoverish-
ment; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HILL
of California, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. MOORE, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
WATERS, Mr. WELCH, and Mr. LAN-
GEVIN):
H.R. 1344. A bill to prohibit brand name
drug companies from compensating generic
drug companies to delay the entry of a ge-
neric drug into the market, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committees on
Energy and Commerce, and the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. CRIST, Mr. CLAY, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, and Ms. WILD):
H.R. 1345. A bill to amend titles XVI,
XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security
Act to remove limitations on Medicaid,
Medicare, SSI, and CHIP benefits for persons
in custody pending disposition of charges; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for him-
self, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. WELCH, Mr. AGUILAR,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. HECK, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. PETERSON, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. TITUS, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. WILD, and
Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 1346. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for an option
for individuals who are ages 50 to 64 to buy
into Medicare, to provide for health insur-
ance market stabilization, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr.
WITTMAN):
H.R. 1347. A bill to amend the Neotropical
Migratory Bird Conservation Act to reau-
thorize the Act; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for him-
self, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. CRIST, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. NADLER, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr. HAS-
TINGS):
H.R. 1348. A bill to require the publication
of the name of any person pardoned by the
President, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LAHOOD (for himself and Ms.
DELBENE):
H.R. 1349. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to simplify reporting re-
quirements, promote tax compliance, and re-
duce tip reporting compliance burdens in the
beauty service industry; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:10 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25FE7.100 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2101
February 25, 2019
By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Mr. VELA,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. KILMER, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
KILDEE, Mr. POCAN, Mr. KIND, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
NORTON, and Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 1350. A bill to encourage, enhance, and
integrate Green Alert plans throughout the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. COLE, and Mr. YOUNG):
H.R. 1351. A bill to amend the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent resources
vital to Indian victims of crime, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Ms. PLASKETT (for herself and Mr.
SAN NICOLAS):
H.R. 1352. A bill to provide for parity for
Guam and the United States Virgin Islands
under the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition
Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. PLASKETT (for herself, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Ms.
NORTON, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and Mr.
SAN NICOLAS):
H.R. 1353. A bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to apply the same apportion-
ment formula to territories and the District
of Columbia as is applied to States with re-
spect to amounts made available for State
purposes from the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. PLASKETT (for herself, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr.
SERRANO, and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 1354. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to make im-
provements to the treatment of the United
States territories under the Medicare and
Medicaid programs, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself, Mr. JOYCE
of Ohio, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Ohio, Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs.
BEATTY, Ms. MOORE, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, and Mr.
RUSH):
H.R. 1355. A bill to posthumously award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Simeon Booker
in recognition of his achievements in the
field of journalism, including his reporting
during the Civil Rights movement and his
social and political commentary; to the
Committee on Financial Services, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.J. Res. 49. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to provide that Representa-
tives shall be apportioned among the several
States according to their respective num-
bers, counting the number of persons in each
State who are citizens of the United States;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HOYER:
H. Res. 143. A resolution electing the Clerk
of the House of Representatives; considered
and agreed to.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for
himself, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. ENGEL,
Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. PETERS, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Ms. LOFGREN, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN
of Puerto Rico, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. PETERSON, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
SPEIER, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. EVANS, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
VAN DREW, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. MOULTON,
Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. COHEN, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. MCGOVERN, and
Mrs. BEATTY):
H. Res. 146. A resolution recognizing the
seriousness of polycystic ovary syndrome
(PCOS) and expressing support for the des-
ignation of the month of September 2019 as
‘‘PCOS Awareness Month’’; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself and Mr. MCKINLEY):
H. Res. 147. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of March 3, 2019, as World
Hearing Day; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1327.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: The Congress
shall have Power . . . To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with Indian Tribes
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 1328.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I
Provides Congress with the power to ‘‘lay
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Ex-
cises’’ in order to ‘‘provide for the . . . gen-
eral Welfare of the United States.’’
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 1329.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. BUCK:
H.R. 1330.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 states, ‘‘The
Congress shall have Power to dispose of and
make all needful Rules and Regulations re-
specting the Territory or other Property be-
longing to the United States . . .’’ This
clause allows Congress to create national
parks and establish studies to determine the
feasibility of designating a study area as a
unit of the National Parks System.
By Mrs. CRAIG:
H.R. 1331.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1332.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, with respect
to the power to ‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises,’’ and to provide
for the ‘‘general Welfare of the United
States.’’ Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
U.S. Constitution gives Congress the power
to ‘‘regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.’’
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 1333.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 1334.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 1335.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 1336.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 1337.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
H.R. 1338.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 1339.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas:
H.R. 1340.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. DESJARLAIS:
H.R. 1341.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution [Page H4570]
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 1342.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 1343.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25FE7.100 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2102 February 25, 2019
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 1344.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 1345.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 1346.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1347.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H.R. 1348.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
United States Constitution, Article I, Sec-
tion 8.
By Mr. LAHOOD:
H.R. 1349.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8, CLAUSE 1
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . . .
By Ms. MOORE:
H.R. 1350.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1351.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 1352.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 1353.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 1354.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 1355.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.J. Res. 49.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article V of the Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 36: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
HIMES, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms.
SHERRILL, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 40: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Ms.
TLAIB.
H.R. 73: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 132: Mr. CARTER of Texas.
H.R. 141: Ms. SPEIER, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 155: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 180: Mr. RICHMOND and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 197: Ms. PORTER and Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 203: Mr. DUNCAN, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, and Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 211: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 276: Ms. DELBENE, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr.
CICILLINE, and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 281: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 291: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
CASE, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 299: Mr. HIMES, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr.
WALDEN, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. RICE of South Caro-
lina, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. NORMAN, Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. WALBERG,
and Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 310: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 330: Ms. HOULAHAN and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 369: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 372: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 384: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 385: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 393: Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 425: Mr. BABIN, Mr. MARSHALL, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. WALTZ, and Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 435: Ms. GABBARD, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. OMAR, Ms. CLARKe of New York,
Mr. SERRANO, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 481: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 485: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 501: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 510: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 530: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 539: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 540: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 541: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 553: Mr. COHEN, Ms. GRANGER, Mr.
MEADOWS, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 555: Mr. KEATING, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. LAMB, and Ms.
ESCOBAR.
H.R. 569: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 583: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. FLORES, and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 587: Mr. TONKO, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. EMMER, and Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 597: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 601: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 603: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 611: Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. BROOKS of
Alabama, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Mr. WILLIAMS, and Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 613: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Mr. PETERSon, and Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 616: Mr. GUTHRIE.
H.R. 643: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 647: Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Mr. MAR-
SHALL.
H.R. 649: Mr. DOGGETT and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 652: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi and
Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 656: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 661: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 666: Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 668: Ms. LOFGREN and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 669: Mr. DESAULNIER and Ms.
HAALAND.
H.R. 677: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 678: Ms. HILL of California and Mr.
VELA.
H.R. 679: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 688: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 693: Mr. KIM, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. CASTEN
of Illinois, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. HILL of Arkansas,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. ROUDA, and Ms.
HAALAND.
H.R. 714: Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 724: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. LAMB, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Ms. MOORE, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
HAALAND, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 728: Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. KILMER, and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 741: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 759: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 768: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 770: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 804: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 806: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 808: Ms. PINGREE, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, and Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 824: Mr. SARBANES, Mr. MCGOVERN,
and Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 830: Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 833: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 850: Mr. BAIRD and Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 864: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. CRIST, and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 871: Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. ESHOO, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. CLARKe of New York, Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. COHEN, Ms. HILL of California,
Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Ms. NORTON, Mr. RUSH, Mr. RASKIN, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. VAN DREW, and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 872: Ms. DEAN, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 877: Mr. MITCHELL, Ms. CHENEY, and
Mr. COLE.
H.R. 886: Mr. KIM and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 888: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 890: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 891: Mr. ADERHOLT.
H.R. 897: Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. LONG, and Mr.
ESTES.
H.R. 900: Miss RICE of New York and Mr.
HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 915: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 921: Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 925: Mr. COOK, Mr. GRAVES of Lou-
isiana, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr. KIL-
DEE, and Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 935: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 945: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and
Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 949: Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, Mr. WOMACK, Mrs. LESKO, and Mr.
ESTES.
H.R. 956: Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 961: Mr. POCAN, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. COO-
PER, Ms. MOORE, Ms. MENG, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. FOSTER, and Mr. SMITH of
Washington.
H.R. 962: Mr. POSEY and Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 978: Mr. SIRES, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Mr. ROUDA,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 996: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1002: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. WILD,
Mr. VARGAS, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. HIMES, Mr. KILMER,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Ms.
BONAMICI, and Mr. CICILLINE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.024 H25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2103
February 25, 2019
H.R. 1004: Mr. LEWIS, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1011: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. GOMEZ, and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1012: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 1013: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 1019: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. CROW, Mrs. MURPHY,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, and Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1029: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 1030: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1035: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1042: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. RICHMOND,
and Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 1043: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1044: Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Ms. STEVENS, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Mr. HIMES, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. ARMSTRONG, and
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 1046: Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. CLARKe of
New York, Ms. GABBARD, and Mr. TED LIEU
of California.
H.R. 1049: Mr. ENGEL, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
COHEN, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. RESCHENTHALER,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1051: Mr. CLAY and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1052: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1057: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 1058: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1073: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1078: Ms. GABBARD, Mr. RUSH, and Mr.
GREEN of Texas.
H.R. 1094: Mr. SIRES, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 1108: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
BURGESS, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CROW, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. FLETCH-
ER, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. JOHNSON
of Ohio, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. LOEBSACK,
Mr. MARSHALL, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. POSEY, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, and Mr.
TONKO.
H.R. 1109: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
RICHMOND, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and Mr.
RUSH.
H.R. 1126: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 1129: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 1137: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Ms. TITUS, Mr. COX of California, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 1140: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1146: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1155: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. OLSON, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio,
and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1156: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1168: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1170: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. CLAY, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LYNCH,
Ms. MOORE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. RYAN,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington.
H.R. 1171: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1186: Mr. BEYER, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. HAALAND, and
Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1190: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 1197: Mr. KHANNA and Mr. SMITH of
Washington.
H.R. 1201: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. HECK,
and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1212: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1216: Mr. SENSENBRENNER and Mr.
MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 1225: Mr. POCAN, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. RYAN, and Mr.
KIND.
H.R. 1227: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1229: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1232: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1234: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1235: Mr. YOUNG, Ms. NORTON, and
Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1241: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1245: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska and Mr.
FERGUSON.
H.R. 1246: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska and Mr.
FERGUSON.
H.R. 1247: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 1254: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1255: Ms. BROWNLEY of California and
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1265: Mr. GROTHMAN and Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 1277: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1293: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 1305: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1320: Mr. BIGGS and Mr. YOHO.
H.J. Res. 2: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.J. Res. 44: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.J. Res. 46: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. PAPPAS,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. VAN DREW, and
Mr. KIM.
H.J. Res. 47: Mr. WOODALL.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. OMAR, Mr. POCAN, and Mr.
TONKO.
H. Con. Res. 8: Mr. TRONE and Mr.
BUCSHON.
H. Con. Res. 12: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Ms. PLASKETT.
H. Con. Res. 13: Ms. UNDERWOOD and Ms.
PLASKETT.
H. Con. Res. 15: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
Mr. REED, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. BARR, Mr. BYRNE,
and Ms. CHENEY.
H. Res. 33: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. KIM, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Ms. BASS,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, and Mr. CROW.
H. Res. 40: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 54: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. HIMES,
and Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H. Res. 58: Mr. CLEAVER.
H. Res. 60: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. LARSEN
of Washington, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SOTO, Mr. HIMES, and Mr.
ZELDIN.
H. Res. 72: Mr. GOSAR.
H. Res. 96: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Ms. PLASKETT.
H. Res. 107: Mr. BACON.
H. Res. 109: Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
SARBANES, Ms. BASS, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. PANETTA, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. ADAMS,
Mr. DOGGETT, and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H. Res. 110: Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. PALMER, Mr.
ALLEN, and Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 114: Mr. TONKO.
H. Res. 138: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. COHEN, Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Ms.
NORTON.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. DEFAZIO
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure in H.J. Res. 46 do not contain any
congressional earmarks, limited tax bene-
fits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in
clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:10 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE7.031 H25FEPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1405
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019 No. 34
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Our Father in Heaven, we honor Your
Name. Strengthen our lawmakers so
that they will not become weary in
doing what is right. Continue to use
them to accomplish Your purposes on
Earth. Give them the wisdom to help
lift burdens and to bring hope to those
on life’s margins.
Lord, renew the strength of our Sen-
ators, inspiring them to bring light to
darkness and hope to despair. Lengthen
their vision that they may see beyond
today and make decisions that will
have an impact for eternity.
And Lord, today, we remember the
life and legacy of our first President,
George Washington.
We pray in Your sacred Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
READING OF WASHINGTON’S
FAREWELL ADDRESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to the order of the Senate of January
24, 1901, as amended by the order of
February 6, 2019, the Senator from Ne-
braska, Mrs. FISCHER, will now read
Washington’s Farewell Address.
Mrs. FISCHER, at the rostrum, read
the Farewell Address, as follows:
To the people of the United States:
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS: The
period for a new election of a citizen to
administer the executive government
of the United States being not far dis-
tant, and the time actually arrived
when your thoughts must be employed
in designating the person who is to be
clothed with that important trust, it
appears to me proper, especially as it
may conduce to a more distinct expres-
sion of the public voice, that I should
now apprise you of the resolution I
have formed, to decline being consid-
ered among the number of those out of
whom a choice is to be made.
I beg you at the same time to do me
the justice to be assured that this reso-
lution has not been taken without a
strict regard to all the considerations
appertaining to the relation which
binds a dutiful citizen to his country—
and that, in withdrawing the tender of
service which silence in my situation
might imply, I am influenced by no
diminution of zeal for your future in-
terest, no deficiency of grateful respect
for your past kindness, but am sup-
ported by a full conviction that the
step is compatible with both.
The acceptance of, and continuance
hitherto in, the office to which your
suffrages have twice called me have
been a uniform sacrifice of inclination
to the opinion of duty and to a def-
erence for what appeared to be your de-
sire. I constantly hoped that it would
have been much earlier in my power,
consistently with motives which I was
not at liberty to disregard, to return to
that retirement from which I had been
reluctantly drawn. The strength of my
inclination to do this, previous to the
last election, had even led to the prepa-
ration of an address to declare it to
you; but mature reflection on the then
perplexed and critical posture of our
affairs with foreign nations, and the
unanimous advice of persons entitled
to my confidence, impelled me to aban-
don the idea.
I rejoice that the state of your con-
cerns, external as well as internal, no
longer renders the pursuit of inclina-
tion incompatible with the sentiment
of duty or propriety and am persuaded,
whatever partiality may be retained
for my services, that in the present cir-
cumstances of our country you will not
disapprove my determination to retire.
The impressions with which I first
undertook the arduous trust were ex-
plained on the proper occasion. In the
discharge of this trust, I will only say
that I have, with good intentions, con-
tributed towards the organization and
administration of the government the
best exertions of which a very fallible
judgment was capable. Not unconscious
in the outset of the inferiority of my
qualifications, experience in my own
eyes, perhaps still more in the eyes of
others, has strengthened the motives
to diffidence of myself, and every day
the increasing weight of years admon-
ishes me more and more that the shade
of retirement is as necessary to me as
it will be welcome. Satisfied that if
any circumstances have given peculiar
value to my services, they were tem-
porary, I have the consolation to be-
lieve that, while choice and prudence
invite me to quit the political scene,
patriotism does not forbid it.
In looking forward to the moment
which is intended to terminate the ca-
reer of my public life, my feelings do
not permit me to suspend the deep ac-
knowledgment of that debt of gratitude
which I owe to my beloved country for
the many honors it has conferred upon
me, still more for the steadfast con-
fidence with which it has supported me
and for the opportunities I have thence
enjoyed of manifesting my inviolable
attachment by services faithful and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.000 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1406 February 25, 2019
persevering, though in usefulness un-
equal to my zeal. If benefits have re-
sulted to our country from these serv-
ices, let it always be remembered to
your praise and as an instructive exam-
ple in our annals that, under cir-
cumstances in which the passions agi-
tated in every direction were liable to
mislead, amidst appearances some-
times dubious, vicissitudes of fortune
often discouraging, in situations in
which not unfrequently want of success
has countenanced the spirit of criti-
cism, the constancy of your support
was the essential prop of the efforts
and a guarantee of the plans by which
they were effected. Profoundly pene-
trated with this idea, I shall carry it
with me to my grave as a strong incite-
ment to unceasing vows that Heaven
may continue to you the choicest to-
kens of its beneficence; that your
union and brotherly affection may be
perpetual; that the free constitution,
which is the work of your hands, may
be sacredly maintained; that its admin-
istration in every department may be
stamped with wisdom and virtue; that,
in fine, the happiness of the people of
these states, under the auspices of lib-
erty, may be made complete by so care-
ful a preservation and so prudent a use
of this blessing as will acquire to them
the glory of recommending it to the ap-
plause, the affection, and adoption of
every nation which is yet a stranger to
it.
Here, perhaps, I ought to stop. But a
solicitude for your welfare, which can-
not end but with my life, and the ap-
prehension of danger natural to that
solicitude, urge me on an occasion like
the present to offer to your solemn
contemplation, and to recommend to
your frequent review, some sentiments
which are the result of much reflec-
tion, of no inconsiderable observation,
and which appear to me all important
to the permanency of your felicity as a
people. These will be offered to you
with the more freedom as you can only
see in them the disinterested warnings
of a parting friend, who can possibly
have no personal motive to bias his
counsel. Nor can I forget, as an encour-
agement to it, your indulgent recep-
tion of my sentiments on a former and
not dissimilar occasion.
Interwoven as is the love of liberty
with every ligament of your hearts, no
recommendation of mine is necessary
to fortify or confirm the attachment.
The unity of government which con-
stitutes you one people is also now
dear to you. It is justly so; for it is a
main pillar in the edifice of your real
independence, the support of your tran-
quility at home, your peace abroad, of
your safety, of your prosperity, of that
very liberty which you so highly prize.
But as it is easy to foresee that, from
different causes and from different
quarters, much pains will be taken,
many artifices employed, to weaken in
your minds the conviction of this
truth; as this is the point in your polit-
ical fortress against which the bat-
teries of internal and external enemies
will be most constantly and actively
(though often covertly and insidiously)
directed, it is of infinite moment that
you should properly estimate the im-
mense value of your national Union to
your collective and individual happi-
ness; that you should cherish a cordial,
habitual, and immovable attachment
to it; accustoming yourselves to think
and speak of it as of the palladium of
your political safety and prosperity;
watching for its preservation with jeal-
ous anxiety; discountenancing what-
ever may suggest even a suspicion that
it can in any event be abandoned; and
indignantly frowning upon the first
dawning of every attempt to alienate
any portion of our country from the
rest, or to enfeeble the sacred ties
which now link together the various
parts.
For this you have every inducement
of sympathy and interest. Citizens by
birth or choice of a common country,
that country has a right to concentrate
your affections. The name of American,
which belongs to you in your national
capacity, must always exalt the just
pride of patriotism more than any ap-
pellation derived from local discrimi-
nations. With slight shades of dif-
ference, you have the same religion,
manners, habits, and political prin-
ciples. You have in a common cause
fought and triumphed together. The
independence and liberty you possess
are the work of joint councils and joint
efforts—of common dangers, sufferings,
and successes.
But these considerations, however
powerfully they address themselves to
your sensibility, are greatly out-
weighed by those which apply more im-
mediately to your interest. Here every
portion of our country finds the most
commanding motives for carefully
guarding and preserving the Union of
the whole.
The North, in an unrestrained inter-
course with the South, protected by the
equal laws of a common government,
finds in the productions of the latter
great additional resources of maritime
and commercial enterprise and pre-
cious materials of manufacturing in-
dustry. The South in the same inter-
course, benefitting by the agency of
the North, sees its agriculture grow
and its commerce expand. Turning
partly into its own channels the sea-
men of the North, it finds its particular
navigation invigorated; and while it
contributes, in different ways, to nour-
ish and increase the general mass of
the national navigation, it looks for-
ward to the protection of a maritime
strength to which itself is unequally
adapted. The East, in a like intercourse
with the West, already finds, and in the
progressive improvement of interior
communications by land and water will
more and more find a valuable vent for
the commodities which it brings from
abroad or manufactures at home. The
West derives from the East supplies req-
uisite to its growth and comfort—and
what is perhaps of still greater con-
sequence, it must of necessity owe the
secure enjoyment of indispensable out-
lets for its own productions to the
weight, influence, and the future mari-
time strength of the Atlantic side of
the Union, directed by an indissoluble
community of interest as one nation.
Any other tenure by which the West
can hold this essential advantage,
whether derived from its own separate
strength or from an apostate and un-
natural connection with any foreign
power, must be intrinsically precar-
ious.
While then every part of our country
thus feels an immediate and particular
interest in union, all the parts com-
bined cannot fail to find in the united
mass of means and efforts greater
strength, greater resource, proportion-
ably greater security from external
danger, a less frequent interruption of
their peace by foreign nations; and,
what is of inestimable value! they must
derive from union an exemption from
those broils and wars between them-
selves which so frequently afflict
neighboring countries not tied together
by the same government, which their
own rivalships alone would be suffi-
cient to produce, but which opposite
foreign alliances, attachments, and in-
trigues would stimulate and embitter.
Hence likewise they will avoid the ne-
cessity of those overgrown military es-
tablishments, which under any form of
government are inauspicious to liberty,
and which are to be regarded as par-
ticularly hostile to republican liberty.
In this sense it is, that your Union
ought to be considered as a main prop
of your liberty, and that the love of the
one ought to endear to you the preser-
vation of the other.
These considerations speak a persua-
sive language to every reflecting and
virtuous mind and exhibit the continu-
ance of the Union as a primary object
of patriotic desire. Is there a doubt
whether a common government can
embrace so large a sphere? Let experi-
ence solve it. To listen to mere specu-
lation in such a case were criminal. We
are authorized to hope that a proper
organization of the whole, with the
auxiliary agency of governments for
the respective subdivisions, will afford
a happy issue to the experiment. It is
well worth a fair and full experiment.
With such powerful and obvious mo-
tives to union affecting all parts of our
country, while experience shall not
have demonstrated its imprac-
ticability, there will always be reason
to distrust the patriotism of those who
in any quarter may endeavor to weak-
en its bands.
In contemplating the causes which
may disturb our Union, it occurs as
matter of serious concern that any
ground should have been furnished for
characterizing parties by geographical
discriminations—northern and southern—
Atlantic and western; whence designing
men may endeavor to excite a belief
that there is a real difference of local
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.001 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1407
February 25, 2019
interests and views. One of the expedi-
ents of party to acquire influence with-
in particular districts is to misrepre-
sent the opinions and aims of other dis-
tricts. You cannot shield yourselves
too much against the jealousies and
heart burnings which spring from these
misrepresentations. They tend to
render alien to each other those who
ought to be bound together by fra-
ternal affection. The inhabitants of our
western country have lately had a use-
ful lesson on this head. They have seen
in the negotiation by the executive—
and in the unanimous ratification by
the Senate—of the treaty with Spain,
and in the universal satisfaction at
that event throughout the United
States, a decisive proof how unfounded
were the suspicions propagated among
them of a policy in the general govern-
ment and in the Atlantic states un-
friendly to their interests in regard to
the Mississippi. They have been wit-
nesses to the formation of two treaties,
that with Great Britain and that with
Spain, which secure to them every-
thing they could desire, in respect to
our foreign relations, towards con-
firming their prosperity. Will it not be
their wisdom to rely for the preserva-
tion of these advantages on the Union
by which they were procured? Will they
not henceforth be deaf to those advis-
ers, if such there are, who would sever
them from their brethren and connect
them with aliens?
To the efficacy and permanency of
your Union, a government for the
whole is indispensable. No alliances,
however strict, between the parts can
be an adequate substitute. They must
inevitably experience the infractions
and interruptions which all alliances in
all times have experienced. Sensible of
this momentous truth, you have im-
proved upon your first essay by the
adoption of a Constitution of govern-
ment better calculated than your
former for an intimate Union and for
the efficacious management of your
common concerns. This government,
the offspring of our own choice
uninfluenced and unawed, adopted
upon full investigation and mature de-
liberation, completely free in its prin-
ciples, in the distribution of its powers
uniting security with energy, and con-
taining within itself a provision for its
own amendment, has a just claim to
your confidence and your support. Re-
spect for its authority, compliance
with its laws, acquiescence in its meas-
ures, are duties enjoined by the funda-
mental maxims of true liberty. The
basis of our political systems is the
right of the people to make and to
alter their constitutions of govern-
ment. But the Constitution which at
any time exists, until changed by an
explicit and authentic act of the whole
people, is sacredly obligatory upon all.
The very idea of the power and the
right of the people to establish govern-
ment presupposes the duty of every in-
dividual to obey the established gov-
ernment.
All obstructions to the execution of
the laws, all combinations and associa-
tions under whatever plausible char-
acter with the real design to direct,
control, counteract, or awe the regular
deliberation and action of the con-
stituted authorities, are destructive of
this fundamental principle and of fatal
tendency. They serve to organize fac-
tion; to give it an artificial and ex-
traordinary force; to put in the place of
the delegated will of the nation the
will of a party, often a small but artful
and enterprising minority of the com-
munity; and, according to the alter-
nate triumphs of different parties, to
make the public administration the
mirror of the ill concerted and incon-
gruous projects of faction, rather than
the organ of consistent and wholesome
plans digested by common councils and
modified by mutual interests. However
combinations or associations of the
above description may now and then
answer popular ends, they are likely, in
the course of time and things, to be-
come potent engines by which cunning,
ambitious, and unprincipled men will
be enabled to subvert the power of the
people and to usurp for themselves the
reins of government, destroying after-
wards the very engines which have lift-
ed them to unjust dominion.
Towards the preservation of your
government and the permanency of
your present happy state, it is req-
uisite not only that you steadily dis-
countenance irregular oppositions to
its acknowledged authority but also
that you resist with care the spirit of
innovation upon its principles, however
specious the pretexts. One method of
assault may be to effect in the forms of
the Constitution alterations which will
impair the energy of the system and
thus to undermine what cannot be di-
rectly overthrown. In all the changes
to which you may be invited, remem-
ber that time and habit are at least as
necessary to fix the true character of
governments as of other human insti-
tutions, that experience is the surest
standard by which to test the real
tendency of the existing constitution
of a country, that facility in changes
upon the credit of mere hypotheses and
opinion exposes to perpetual change
from the endless variety of hypotheses
and opinion; and remember, especially,
that for the efficient management of
your common interests in a country so
extensive as ours, a government of as
much vigor as is consistent with the
perfect security of liberty is indispen-
sable; liberty itself will find in such a
government, with powers properly dis-
tributed and adjusted, its surest guard-
ian. It is indeed little else than a name,
where the government is too feeble to
withstand the enterprises of faction, to
confine each member of the society
within the limits prescribed by the
laws, and to maintain all in the secure
and tranquil enjoyment of the rights of
person and property.
I have already intimated to you the
danger of parties in the state, with par-
ticular reference to the founding of
them on geographical discriminations.
Let me now take a more comprehen-
sive view and warn you in the most sol-
emn manner against the baneful effects
of the spirit of party, generally.
This spirit, unfortunately, is insepa-
rable from our nature, having its root
in the strongest passions of the human
mind. It exists under different shapes
in all governments, more or less sti-
fled, controlled, or repressed; but in
those of the popular form it is seen in
its greatest rankness and is truly their
worst enemy.
The alternate domination of one fac-
tion over another, sharpened by the
spirit of revenge natural to party dis-
sension, which in different ages and
countries has perpetrated the most
horrid enormities, is itself a frightful
despotism. But this leads at length to a
more formal and permanent despotism.
The disorders and miseries which re-
sult gradually incline the minds of men
to seek security and repose in the abso-
lute power of an individual; and sooner
or later the chief of some prevailing
faction, more able or more fortunate
than his competitors, turns this dis-
position to the purposes of his own ele-
vation on the ruins of public liberty.
Without looking forward to an ex-
tremity of this kind (which neverthe-
less ought not to be entirely out of
sight) the common and continual mis-
chiefs of the spirit of party are suffi-
cient to make it the interest and the
duty of a wise people to discourage and
restrain it.
It serves always to distract the pub-
lic councils and enfeeble the public ad-
ministration. It agitates the commu-
nity with ill founded jealousies and
false alarms, kindles the animosity of
one part against another, foments oc-
casionally riot and insurrection. It
opens the door to foreign influence and
corruption, which find a facilitated ac-
cess to the government itself through
the channels of party passions. Thus
the policy and the will of one country
are subjected to the policy and will of
another.
There is an opinion that parties in
free countries are useful checks upon
the administration of the government
and serve to keep alive the spirit of lib-
erty. This within certain limits is prob-
ably true—and in governments of a mo-
narchical cast patriotism may look
with indulgence, if not with favor,
upon the spirit of party. But in those of
the popular character, in governments
purely elective, it is a spirit not to be
encouraged. From their natural tend-
ency, it is certain there will always be
enough of that spirit for every salutary
purpose. And there being constant dan-
ger of excess, the effort ought to be by
force of public opinion to mitigate and
assuage it. A fire not to be quenched, it
demands a uniform vigilance to pre-
vent its bursting into a flame, lest in-
stead of warming it should consume.
It is important, likewise, that the
habits of thinking in a free country
should inspire caution in those en-
trusted with its administration to con-
fine themselves within their respective
constitutional spheres, avoiding in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.002 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1408 February 25, 2019
exercise of the powers of one depart-
ment to encroach upon another. The
spirit of encroachment tends to con-
solidate the powers of all the depart-
ments in one and thus to create, what-
ever the form of government, a real
despotism. A just estimate of that love
of power and proneness to abuse it
which predominates in the human
heart is sufficient to satisfy us of the
truth of this position. The necessity of
reciprocal checks in the exercise of po-
litical power, by dividing and distrib-
uting it into different depositories and
constituting each the guardian of the
public weal against invasions by the
others, has been evinced by experi-
ments ancient and modern, some of
them in our country and under our own
eyes. To preserve them must be as nec-
essary as to institute them. If in the
opinion of the people the distribution
or modification of the constitutional
powers be in any particular wrong, let
it be corrected by an amendment in the
way which the Constitution designates.
But let there be no change by usurpa-
tion; for though this, in one instance,
may be the instrument of good, it is
the customary weapon by which free
governments are destroyed. The prece-
dent must always greatly overbalance
in permanent evil any partial or tran-
sient benefit which the use can at any
time yield.
Of all the dispositions and habits
which lead to political prosperity, reli-
gion and morality are indispensable
supports. In vain would that man claim
the tribute of patriotism who should
labor to subvert these great pillars of
human happiness, these firmest props
of the duties of men and citizens. The
mere politician, equally with the pious
man, ought to respect and to cherish
them. A volume could not trace all
their connections with private and pub-
lic felicity. Let it simply be asked
where is the security for property, for
reputation, for life, if the sense of reli-
gious obligation desert the oaths, which
are the instruments of investigation in
courts of justice? And let us with cau-
tion indulge the supposition that mo-
rality can be maintained without reli-
gion. Whatever may be conceded to the
influence of refined education on minds
of peculiar structure, reason and expe-
rience both forbid us to expect that na-
tional morality can prevail in exclu-
sion of religious principle.
It is substantially true that virtue or
morality is a necessary spring of pop-
ular government. The rule indeed ex-
tends with more or less force to every
species of free government. Who that is
a sincere friend to it can look with in-
difference upon attempts to shake the
foundation of the fabric?
Promote then, as an object of pri-
mary importance, institutions for the
general diffusion of knowledge. In pro-
portion as the structure of a govern-
ment gives force to public opinion, it is
essential that public opinion should be
enlightened.
As a very important source of
strength and security, cherish public
credit. One method of preserving it is
to use it as sparingly as possible,
avoiding occasions of expense by culti-
vating peace, but remembering also
that timely disbursements to prepare
for danger frequently prevent much
greater disbursements to repel it;
avoiding likewise the accumulation of
debt, not only by shunning occasions of
expense, but by vigorous exertions in
time of peace to discharge the debts
which unavoidable wars may have oc-
casioned, not ungenerously throwing
upon posterity the burden which we
ourselves ought to bear. The execution
of these maxims belongs to your rep-
resentatives, but it is necessary that
public opinion should cooperate. To fa-
cilitate to them the performance of
their duty, it is essential that you
should practically bear in mind that
towards the payment of debts there
must be revenue; that to have revenue
there must be taxes; that no taxes can
be devised which are not more or less
inconvenient and unpleasant; that the
intrinsic embarrassment inseparable
from the selection of the proper objects
(which is always a choice of difficul-
ties) ought to be a decisive motive for
a candid construction of the conduct of
the government in making it, and for a
spirit of acquiescence in the measures
for obtaining revenue which the public
exigencies may at any time dictate.
Observe good faith and justice to-
wards all nations; cultivate peace and
harmony with all; religion and moral-
ity enjoin this conduct, and can it be
that good policy does not equally en-
join it? It will be worthy of a free, en-
lightened, and, at no distant period, a
great nation, to give to mankind the
magnanimous and too novel example of
a people always guided by an exalted
justice and benevolence. Who can doubt
that in the course of time and things
the fruits of such a plan would richly
repay any temporary advantages which
might be lost by a steady adherence to
it? Can it be, that Providence has not
connected the permanent felicity of a
nation with its virtue? The experiment,
at least, is recommended by every sen-
timent which ennobles human nature.
Alas! is it rendered impossible by its
vices?
In the execution of such a plan noth-
ing is more essential than that perma-
nent, inveterate antipathies against
particular nations and passionate at-
tachments for others should be ex-
cluded and that in place of them just
and amicable feelings towards all
should be cultivated. The nation which
indulges towards another an habitual
hatred, or an habitual fondness, is in
some degree a slave. It is a slave to its
animosity or to its affection, either of
which is sufficient to lead it astray
from its duty and its interest. Antip-
athy in one nation against another dis-
poses each more readily to offer insult
and injury, to lay hold of slight causes
of umbrage, and to be haughty and in-
tractable when accidental or trifling
occasions of dispute occur. Hence fre-
quent collisions, obstinate, envenomed,
and bloody contests. The nation,
prompted by ill will and resentment,
sometimes impels to war the govern-
ment, contrary to the best calculations
of policy. The government sometimes
participates in the national propensity
and adopts through passion what rea-
son would reject; at other times, it
makes the animosity of the nation sub-
servient to projects of hostility insti-
gated by pride, ambition and other sin-
ister and pernicious motives. The peace
often, sometimes perhaps the liberty,
of nations has been the victim.
So likewise, a passionate attachment
of one nation for another produces a
variety of evils. Sympathy for the fa-
vorite nation, facilitating the illusion
of an imaginary common interest in
cases where no real common interest
exists and infusing into one the enmi-
ties of the other, betrays the former
into a participation in the quarrels and
wars of the latter, without adequate in-
ducement or justification. It leads also
to concessions to the favorite nation of
privileges denied to others, which is
apt doubly to injure the nation making
the concessions, by unnecessarily part-
ing with what ought to have been re-
tained and by exciting jealousy, ill
will, and a disposition to retaliate in
the parties from whom equal privileges
are withheld. And it gives to ambi-
tious, corrupted, or deluded citizens
(who devote themselves to the favorite
nation) facility to betray or sacrifice
the interests of their own country
without odium, sometimes even with
popularity, gilding with the appear-
ances of a virtuous sense of obligation,
a commendable deference for public
opinion, or a laudable zeal for public
good, the base or foolish compliances
of ambition, corruption, or infatuation.
As avenues to foreign influence in in-
numerable ways, such attachments are
particularly alarming to the truly en-
lightened and independent patriot. How
many opportunities do they afford to
tamper with domestic factions, to prac-
tice the arts of seduction, to mislead
public opinion, to influence or awe the
public councils! Such an attachment of
a small or weak towards a great and
powerful nation dooms the former to be
the satellite of the latter.
Against the insidious wiles of foreign
influence (I conjure you to believe me,
fellow citizens) the jealousy of a free
people ought to be constantly awake,
since history and experience prove that
foreign influence is one of the most
baneful foes of republican government.
But that jealousy to be useful must be
impartial; else it becomes the instru-
ment of the very influence to be avoid-
ed, instead of a defense against it. Ex-
cessive partiality for one foreign na-
tion and excessive dislike of another
cause those whom they actuate to see
danger only on one side, and serve to
veil and even second the arts of influ-
ence on the other. Real patriots, who
may resist the intrigues of the favor-
ite, are liable to become suspected and
odious, while its tools and dupes usurp
the applause and confidence of the peo-
ple to surrender their interests.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.003 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1409
February 25, 2019
The great rule of conduct for us in re-
gard to foreign nations is, in extending
our commercial relations, to have with
them as little political connection as
possible. So far as we have already
formed engagements, let them be ful-
filled with perfect good faith. Here let
us stop.
Europe has a set of primary inter-
ests, which to us have none or a very
remote relation. Hence she must be en-
gaged in frequent controversies, the
causes of which are essentially foreign
to our concerns. Hence therefore it
must be unwise in us to implicate our-
selves, by artificial ties, in the ordi-
nary vicissitudes of her politics or the
ordinary combinations and collisions of
her friendships or enmities.
Our detached and distant situation
invites and enables us to pursue a dif-
ferent course. If we remain one people
under an efficient government, the pe-
riod is not far off when we may defy
material injury from external annoy-
ance; when we may take such an atti-
tude as will cause the neutrality we
may at any time resolve upon to be
scrupulously respected; when bellig-
erent nations, under the impossibility
of making acquisitions upon us, will
not lightly hazard the giving us provo-
cation; when we may choose peace or
war, as our interest guided by justice
shall counsel.
Why forgo the advantages of so pecu-
liar a situation? Why quit our own to
stand upon foreign ground? Why, by
interweaving our destiny with that of
any part of Europe, entangle our peace
and prosperity in the toils of European
ambition, rival-ship, interest, humor,
or caprice?
It is our true policy to steer clear of
permanent alliances with any portion
of the foreign world—so far, I mean, as
we are now at liberty to do it, for let
me not be understood as capable of pa-
tronizing infidelity to existing engage-
ments (I hold the maxim no less appli-
cable to public than to private affairs,
that honesty is always the best pol-
icy)—I repeat it therefore, let those en-
gagements be observed in their genuine
sense. But in my opinion it is unneces-
sary and would be unwise to extend
them.
Taking care always to keep our-
selves, by suitable establishments, on a
respectably defensive posture, we may
safely trust to temporary alliances for
extraordinary emergencies.
Harmony, liberal intercourse with all
nations, are recommended by policy,
humanity, and interest. But even our
commercial policy should hold an
equal and impartial hand: neither seek-
ing nor granting exclusive favors or
preferences; consulting the natural
course of things; diffusing and diversi-
fying by gentle means the streams of
commerce but forcing nothing; estab-
lishing with powers so disposed—in
order to give to trade a stable course,
to define the rights of our merchants,
and to enable the government to sup-
port them—conventional rules of inter-
course, the best that present cir-
cumstances and mutual opinion will
permit, but temporary, and liable to be
from time to time abandoned or varied,
as experience and circumstances shall
dictate; constantly keeping in view,
that it is folly in one nation to look for
disinterested favors from another—
that it must pay with a portion of its
independence for whatever it may ac-
cept under that character—that by
such acceptance it may place itself in
the condition of having given equiva-
lents for nominal favors and yet of
being reproached with ingratitude for
not giving more. There can be no great-
er error than to expect or calculate
upon real favors from nation to nation.
It is an illusion which experience must
cure, which a just pride ought to dis-
card.
In offering to you, my countrymen,
these counsels of an old and affec-
tionate friend, I dare not hope they
will make the strong and lasting im-
pression I could wish—that they will
control the usual current of the pas-
sions or prevent our nation from run-
ning the course which has hitherto
marked the destiny of nations. But if I
may even flatter myself that they may
be productive of some partial benefit,
some occasional good, that they may
now and then recur to moderate the
fury of party spirit, to warn against
the mischiefs of foreign intrigue, to
guard against the impostures of pre-
tended patriotism—this hope will be a
full recompense for the solicitude for
your welfare by which they have been
dictated.
How far in the discharge of my offi-
cial duties I have been guided by the
principles which have been delineated,
the public records and other evidences
of my conduct must witness to you and
to the world. To myself, the assurance
of my own conscience is that I have at
least believed myself to be guided by
them.
In relation to the still subsisting war
in Europe, my proclamation of the 22d
of April 1793 is the index to my plan.
Sanctioned by your approving voice
and by that of your representatives in
both houses of Congress, the spirit of
that measure has continually governed
me, uninfluenced by any attempts to
deter or divert me from it.
After deliberate examination with
the aid of the best lights I could ob-
tain, I was well satisfied that our coun-
try, under all the circumstances of the
case, had a right to take—and was
bound in duty and interest to take—a
neutral position. Having taken it, I de-
termined, as far as should depend upon
me, to maintain it with moderation,
perseverence, and firmness.
The considerations which respect the
right to hold this conduct it is not nec-
essary on this occasion to detail. I will
only observe that, according to my un-
derstanding of the matter, that right,
so far from being denied by any of the
belligerent powers, has been virtually
admitted by all.
The duty of holding a neutral con-
duct may be inferred, without anything
more, from the obligation which jus-
tice and humanity impose on every na-
tion, in cases in which it is free to act,
to maintain inviolate the relations of
peace and amity towards other nations.
The inducements of interest for ob-
serving that conduct will best be re-
ferred to your own reflections and ex-
perience. With me, a predominant mo-
tive has been to endeavor to gain time
to our country to settle and mature its
yet recent institutions and to progress
without interruption to that degree of
strength and consistency which is nec-
essary to give it, humanly speaking,
the command of its own fortunes.
Though in reviewing the incidents of
my administration I am unconscious of
intentional error, I am nevertheless
too sensible of my defects not to think
it probable that I may have committed
many errors. Whatever they may be, I
fervently beseech the Almighty to
avert or mitigate the evils to which
they may tend. I shall also carry with
me the hope that my country will
never cease to view them with indul-
gence and that, after forty-five years of
my life dedicated to its service with an
upright zeal, the faults of incompetent
abilities will be consigned to oblivion,
as myself must soon be to the man-
sions of rest.
Relying on its kindness in this as in
other things, and actuated by that fer-
vent love towards it which is so nat-
ural to a man who views in it the na-
tive soil of himself and his progenitors
for several generations, I anticipate
with pleasing expectation that retreat,
in which I promise myself to realize
without alloy the sweet enjoyment of
partaking in the midst of my fellow
citizens the benign influence of good
laws under a free government—the ever
favorite object of my heart, and the
happy reward, as I trust, of our mutual
cares, labors and dangers.
GEO. WASHINGTON.
UNITED STATES, 19th September 1796.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
FLOODING IN KENTUCKY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
first, today I would like to turn atten-
tion to the severe weather that is af-
flicting communities throughout my
home State.
Nearly 20 counties from one end of
the State to the other have declared
states of emergency in response to his-
torically high water levels. Just mo-
ments ago, Governor Matt Bevin put
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.004 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1410 February 25, 2019
the entire Commonwealth under a
state of emergency to mobilize re-
sources where they are needed most.
Many families are evacuating toward
safety. Approximately 2,400 people in
eastern and southern Kentucky are
still without power. Mudslides have
closed roads. Bridges are flooded, and
emergency personnel have been de-
ployed to rescue stranded drivers and
others in danger.
I want to express my gratitude to the
first responders working around the
clock to keep their communities safe.
It may be a difficult road to recovery,
but Kentuckians are already pitching
in to help their neighbors in need.
My staff and I are ready to work with
emergency management officials and
will continue to monitor the situation
closely.
f
BUSINESS BEFORE THE SENATE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
an entirely different matter, this week
the Senate will resume our work in the
personnel business by considering yet
another of President Trump’s qualified
judicial nominees.
Eric Miller has been chosen to sit on
the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and
one look at his legal career to this
point says he is well prepared to do so.
Mr. Miller is a graduate of Harvard
and the University of Chicago, where
he served on the Law Review editorial
staff. He has held prominent clerkships
on both the DC Circuit Court of Ap-
peals and the U.S. Supreme Court. His
record of public service at the Justice
Department and in private practice re-
flects a legal mind of the highest cal-
iber.
I hope each of my colleagues will join
me in voting to advance the first cir-
cuit court nominee of this new Con-
gress. That will be 31 since President
Trump took office. But first, in just a
few hours, the Senate will vote on ad-
vancing a straightforward piece of leg-
islation to protect newborn babies.
This legislation is simple. It would
simply require that medical profes-
sionals give the same standard of care
and medical treatment to newborn ba-
bies who have survived an attempted
abortion as any other newborn baby
would receive in any other cir-
cumstance. It isn’t about new restric-
tions on abortion. It isn’t about chang-
ing the options available to women. It
is just about recognizing that a new-
born baby is a newborn baby, period.
This bill would make clear that in
the year 2019, in the United States of
America, medical professionals on
hand when a baby is born alive need to
maintain their basic ethical and pro-
fessional responsibilities to that new-
born. It would make sure our laws re-
flect the fact that the human rights of
newborn boys and girls are innate; they
don’t come and go based on the cir-
cumstances of birth. Whatever the cir-
cumstances, if that medical profes-
sional comes face-to-face with a baby
who has been born alive, they are look-
ing at a human being with human
rights, period.
To be frank, it makes me uneasy that
such a basic statement seems to be
generating actual disagreement. Can
the extreme, far-left politics sur-
rounding abortion really have come
this far? Are we really supposed to
think that it is normal that there are
now two sides debating whether new-
born, living babies deserve medical at-
tention?
We already know that many of our
Democratic colleagues want the United
States to remain one of seven nations
in the world that permit elective abor-
tions after 20 weeks—seven countries,
including North Korea, China, and the
United States of America. But now it
seems the far left wants to push the en-
velope even further. Apart from the en-
tire abortion debate, they now seem to
be suggesting that newborn babies’
right to life may be contingent—con-
tingent—on the circumstances sur-
rounding their birth. Well, evidently,
the far left is no longer convinced that
all babies are created equal, but the
rest of us are still pretty fond of that
principle.
My colleagues across the aisle need
to decide where they will take their
cues on these moral questions. On the
one hand, there are a few extreme
voices who have decided that some
newborn lives are more disposable than
others. On the other side is the entire
rest of the country.
I would urge my colleagues: Let’s lis-
ten to the voices of the American peo-
ple. Let’s reaffirm that when we say
every life is created equal, we actually
mean it. Let’s vote to advance the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act later today.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
DECLARATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
before Congress went out of session 2
weeks ago, President Trump announced
that he was declaring a national emer-
gency to redirect funds to the con-
struction of a border wall. It was a law-
less act, a gross abuse of power, and an
attempt by the President to distract
from the fact that he broke his core
promise to have Mexico pay for the
wall.
Let me give a few reasons why the
President’s emergency is so wrong.
First, there is no evidence of an
emergency at the border. Illegal border
crossings have been declining for 20
years. Just this morning, a group of 58
former senior national security figures,
including Chuck Hagel and Madeleine
Albright, released a statement saying:
‘‘Under no plausible assessment of the
evidence is there a national emergency
today that entitles the president to tap
into funds appropriated for other pur-
poses to build a wall at the southern
border.’’
I ask unanimous consent that the
full statement be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
JOINT DECLARATION OF FORMER UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
We, the undersigned, declare as follows:
1. We are former officials in the U.S. gov-
ernment who have worked on national secu-
rity and homeland security issues from the
White House as well as agencies across the
Executive Branch. We have served in senior
leadership roles in administrations of both
major political parties, and collectively we
have devoted a great many decades to pro-
tecting the security interests of the United
States. We have held the highest security
clearances, and we have participated in the
highest levels of policy deliberations on a
broad range of issues. These include: immi-
gration, border security, counterterrorism,
military operations, and our nation’s rela-
tionship with other countries, including
those south of our border.
a. Madeleine K. Albright served as Sec-
retary of State from 1997 to 2001. A refugee
and naturalized American citizen, she served
as U.S. Permanent Representative to the
United Nations from 1993 to 1997. She has
also been a member of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency External Advisory Board
since 2009 and of the Defense Policy Board
since 2011, in which capacities she has re-
ceived assessments of threats facing the
United States.
b. Jeremy B. Bash served as Chief of Staff
of the U.S. Department of Defense from 2011
to 2013, and as Chief of Staff of the Central
Intelligence Agency from 2009 to 2011.
c. John B. Bellinger III served as the Legal
Adviser to the U.S. Department of State
from 2005 to 2009. He previously served as
Senior Associate Counsel to the President
and Legal Adviser to the National Security
Council from 2001 to 2005.
d. Daniel Benjamin served as Ambassador-
at-Large for Counterterrorism at the U.S.
Department of State from 2009 to 2012.
e. Antony Blinken served as Deputy Sec-
retary of State from 2015 to 2017. He pre-
viously served as Deputy National Security
Advisor to the President from 2013 to 2015.
f. John 0. Brennan served as Director of the
Central Intelligence Agency from 2013 to
2017. He previously served as Deputy Na-
tional Security Advisor for Homeland Secu-
rity and Counterterrorism and Assistant to
the President from 2009 to 2013.
g. R. Nicholas Burns served as Under Sec-
retary of State for Political Affairs from 2005
to 2008. He previously served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to NATO and as U.S. Ambassador to
Greece.
h. William J. Burns served as Deputy Sec-
retary of State from 2011 to 2014. He pre-
viously served as Under Secretary of State
for Political Affairs from 2008 to 2011, as U.S.
Ambassador to Russia from 2005 to 2008, as
Assistant Secretary of State for Near East-
ern Affairs from 2001 to 2005, and as U.S. Am-
bassador to Jordan from 1998 to 2001.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.002 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1411
February 25, 2019
i. Johnnie Carson served as Assistant Sec-
retary of State for African Affairs from 2009
to 2013. He previously served as the U.S. Am-
bassador to Kenya from 1999 to 2003, to
Zimbabwe from 1995 to 1997, and to Uganda
from 1991 to 1994.
j. James Clapper served as U.S. Director of
National Intelligence from 2010 to 2017.
k. David S. Cohen served as Under Sec-
retary of the Treasury for Terrorism and Fi-
nancial Intelligence from 2011 to 2015 and as
Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency from 2015 to 2017.
l. Eliot A. Cohen served as Counselor of the
U.S. Department of State from 2007 to 2009.
m. Ryan Crocker served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to Afghanistan from 2011 to 2012, as
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq from 2007 to 2009, as
U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan from 2004 to
2007, as U.S. Ambassador to Syria from 1998
to 2001, as U.S. Ambassador to Kuwait from
1994 to 1997, and U.S. Ambassador to Lebanon
from 1990 to 1993.
n. Thomas Donilon served as National Se-
curity Advisor to the President from 2010 to
2013.
o. Jen Easterly served as Special Assistant
to the President and Senior Director for
Counterterrorism from 2013 to 2016.
p. Nancy Ely-Raphel served as Senior Ad-
viser to the Secretary of State and Director
of the Office to Monitor and Combat Traf-
ficking in Persons from 2001 to 2003. She pre-
viously served as the U.S. Ambassador to
Slovenia from 1998 to 2001.
q. Daniel P. Erikson served as Special Ad-
visor for Western Hemisphere Affairs to the
Vice President from 2015 to 2017, and as Sen-
ior Advisor for Western Hemisphere Affairs
at the U.S. Department of State from 2010 to
2015.
r. John D. Feeley served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to Panama from 2015 to 2018. He served
as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Western Hemisphere Affairs at the U.S. De-
partment of State from 2012 to 2015.
s. Daniel F. Feldman served as Special
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan
at the U.S. Department of State from 2014 to
2015.
t. Jonathan Finer served as Chief of Staff
to the Secretary of State from 2015 to 2017,
and Director of the Policy Planning Staff at
the U.S. Department of State from 2016 to
2017.
u. Jendayi Frazer served as Assistant Sec-
retary of State for African Affairs from 2005
to 2009. She served as U.S. Ambassador to
South Africa from 2004 to 2005.
v. Suzy George served as Executive Sec-
retary and Chief of Staff of the National Se-
curity Council from 2014 to 2017.
w. Phil Gordon served as Special Assistant
to the President and White House Coordi-
nator for the Middle East, North Africa and
the Gulf from 2013 to 2015, and Assistant Sec-
retary of State for European and Eurasian
Affairs from 2009 to 2013.
x. Chuck Hagel served as Secretary of De-
fense from 2013 to 2015, and previously served
as Co-Chair of the President’s Intelligence
Advisory Board. From 1997 to 2009, he served
as U.S. Senator for Nebraska, and as a senior
member of the Senate Foreign Relations and
Intelligence Committees.
y. Avril D. Haines served as Deputy Na-
tional Security Advisor to the President
from 2015 to 2017. From 2013 to 2015, she
served as Deputy Director of the Central In-
telligence Agency.
z. Luke Hartig served as Senior Director
for Counterterrorism at the National Secu-
rity Council from 2014 to 2016.
aa. Heather A. Higginbottom served as
Deputy Secretary of State for Management
and Resources from 2013 to 2017.
bb. Roberta Jacobson served as U.S. Am-
bassador to Mexico from 2016 to 2018. She
previously served as Assistant Secretary of
State for Western Hemisphere Affairs from
2011 to 2016.
cc. Gil Kerlikowske served as Commis-
sioner of Customs and Border Protection
from2014 to 2017. He previously served as Di-
rector of the Office of National Drug Control
Policy from 2009 to 2014.
dd. John F. Kerry served as Secretary of
State from 2013 to 2017.
ee. Prem Kumar served as Senior Director
for the Middle East and North Africa at the
National Security Council from 2013 to 2015.
ff. John E. McLaughlin served as Deputy
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
from 2000 to 2004 and as Acting Director in
2004. His duties included briefing President-
elect Bill Clinton and President George W.
Bush.
gg. Lisa O. Monaco served as Assistant to
the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism and Deputy National Secu-
rity Advisor from 2013 to 2017. Previously,
she served as Assistant Attorney General for
National Security from 2011 to 2013.
hh. Janet Napolitano served as Secretary
of Homeland Security from 2009 to 2013. She
served as the Governor of Arizona from 2003
to 2009.
ii. James D. Nealon served as Assistant
Secretary for International Engagement at
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
from 2017 to 2018. He served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to Honduras from 2014 to 2017.
jj. James C. O’Brien served as Special Pres-
idential Envoy for Hostage Affairs from 2015
to 2017. He served in the U.S. Department of
State from 1989 to 2001, including as Prin-
cipal Deputy Director of Policy Planning and
as Special Presidential Envoy for the Bal-
kans.
kk. Matthew G. Olsen served as Director of
the National Counterterrorism Center from
2011 to 2014.
11. Leon E. Panetta served as Secretary of
Defense from 2011 to 2013. From 2009 to 2011,
he served as Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
mm. Anne W. Patterson served as Assist-
ant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Af-
fairs from 2013 to 2017. Previously, she served
as the U.S. Ambassador to Egypt from 2011
to 2013, to Pakistan from 2007 to 2010, to Co-
lombia from 2000 to 2003, and to El Salvador
from 1997 to 2000.
nn. Thomas R. Pickering served as Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs from
1997 to 2000. He served as U.S. Permanent
Representative to the United Nations from
1989 to 1992.
oo. Amy Pope served as Deputy Homeland
Security Advisor and Deputy Assistant to
the President from 2015 to 2017.
pp. Samantha J. Power served as U.S. Per-
manent Representative to the United Na-
tions from 2013 to 2017. From 2009 to 2013, she
served as Senior Director for Multilateral
and Human Rights at the National Security
Council.
qq. Jeffrey Prescott served as Deputy Na-
tional Security Advisor to the Vice Presi-
dent from 2013 to 2015, and as Special Assist-
ant to the President and Senior Director for
Iran, Iraq, Syria and the Gulf States from
2015 to 2017.
rr. Nicholas Rasmussen served as Director
of the National Counterterrorism Center
from 2014 to 2017.
ss. Alan Charles Raul served as Vice Chair-
man of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Over-
sight Board from 2006 to 2008. He previously
served as General Counsel of the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture from 1989 to 1993,
General Counsel of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Executive Office of the
President from 1988 to 1989, and Associate
Counsel to the President from 1986 to 1989.
tt. Dan Restrepo served as Special Assist-
ant to the President and Senior Director for
Western Hemisphere Affairs at the National
Security Council from 2009 to 2012.
uu. Susan E. Rice served as U.S. Perma-
nent Representative to the United Nations
from 2009 to 2013 and as National Security
Advisor to the President from 2013 to 2017.
vv. Anne C. Richard served as Assistant
Secretary of State for Population, Refugees,
and Migration from 2012 to 2017.
ww. Eric P. Schwartz served as Assistant
Secretary of State for Population, Refugees,
and Migration from 2009 to 2011. From 1993 to
2001, he was responsible for refugee and hu-
manitarian issues at the National Security
Council, ultimately serving as Special As-
sistant to the President for National Secu-
rity Affairs and Senior Director for Multilat-
eral and Humanitarian Affairs.
xx. Andrew J. Shapiro served as Assistant
Secretary of State for Political-Military Af-
fairs from 2009 to 2013.
yy. Wendy R. Sherman served as Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs from
2011 to 2015.
zz. Vikram Singh served as Deputy Special
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan
from 2010 to 2011 and as Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Southeast Asia from
2012 to 2014.
aaa. Dana Shell Smith served as U.S. Am-
bassador to Qatar from 2014 to 2017. Pre-
viously, she served as Principal Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of Public Affairs.
bbb. Jeffrey H. Smith served as General
Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency
from 1995 to 1996. He previously served as
General Counsel of the Senate Armed Serv-
ices Committee.
ccc. Jake Sullivan served as National Se-
curity Advisor to the Vice President from
2013 to 2014. He previously served as Director
of Policy Planning at the U.S. Department of
State from 2011 to 2013.
ddd. Strobe Talbott served as Deputy Sec-
retary of State from 1994 to 2001.
eee. Linda Thomas-Greenfield served as
Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Afri-
can Affairs from 2013 to 2017. She previously
served as U.S. Ambassador to Liberia and
Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Bureau
of Population, Refugees, and Migration from
2004 to 2006.
fff. Arturo A. Valenzuela served as Assist-
ant Secretary of State for Western Hemi-
sphere Affairs from 2009 to 2011. He pre-
viously served as Special Assistant to the
President and Senior Director for Inter-
American Affairs at the National Security
Council from 1999 to 2000, and as Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of State for Mexican Af-
fairs from 1994 to 1996.
2. On February 15, 2019, the President de-
clared a ‘‘national emergency’’ for the pur-
pose of diverting appropriated funds from
previously designated uses to build a wall
along the southern border. We are aware of
no emergency that remotely justifies such a
step. The President’s actions are at odds
with the overwhelming evidence in the pub-
lic record, including the administration’s
own data and estimates. We have lived and
worked through national emergencies, and
we support the President’s power to mobilize
the Executive Branch to respond quickly in
genuine national emergencies. But under no
plausible assessment of the evidence is there
a national emergency today that entitles the
President to tap into funds appropriated for
other purposes to build a wall at the south-
ern border. To our knowledge, the Presi-
dent’s assertion of a national emergency
here is unprecedented, in that he seeks to ad-
dress a situation: (1) that has been enduring,
rather than one that has arisen suddenly; (2)
that in fact has improved over time rather
than deteriorated; (3) by reprogramming bil-
lions of dollars in funds in the face of clear
congressional intent to the contrary; and (4)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.007 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1412 February 25, 2019
with assertions that are rebutted not just by
the public record, but by his agencies’ own
official data, documents, and statements.
3. Illegal border crossings are near forty-year
lows. At the outset, there is no evidence of a
sudden or emergency increase in the number
of people seeking to cross the southern bor-
der. According to the administration’s own
data, the numbers of apprehensions and un-
detected illegal border crossings at the
southern border are near forty-year lows. Al-
though there was a modest increase in appre-
hensions in 2018, that figure is in keeping
with the number of apprehensions only two
years earlier, and the overall trend indicates
a dramatic decline over the last fifteen years
in particular. The administration also esti-
mates that ‘‘undetected unlawful entries’’ at
the southern border ‘‘fell from approxi-
mately 851,000 to nearly 62,000’’ between fis-
cal years 2006 to 2016, the most recent years
for which data are available. The United
States currently hosts what is estimated to
be the smallest number of undocumented im-
migrants since 2004. And in fact, in recent
years, the majority of currently undocu-
mented immigrants entered the United
States legally, but overstayed their visas, a
problem that will not be addressed by the
declaration of an emergency along the south-
ern border.
4. There is no documented terrorist or na-
tional security emergency at the southern bor-
der. There is no reason to believe that there
is a terrorist or national security emergency
at the southern border that could justify the
President’s proclamation.
a. This administration’s own most recent
Country Report on Terrorism, released only
five months ago, found that ‘‘there was no
credible evidence indicating that inter-
national terrorist groups have established
bases in Mexico, worked with Mexican drug
cartels, or sent operatives via Mexico into
the United States.’’ Since 1975, there has
been only one reported incident in which im-
migrants who had crossed the southern bor-
der illegally attempted to commit a terrorist
act. That incident occurred more than
twelve years ago, and involved three broth-
ers from Macedonia who had been brought
into the United States as children more than
twenty years earlier.
b. Although the White House has claimed,
as an argument favoring a wall at the south-
ern border, that almost 4,000 known or sus-
pected terrorists were intercepted at the
southern border in a single year, this asser-
tion has since been widely and consistently
repudiated, including by this administra-
tion’s own Department of Homeland Secu-
rity. The overwhelming majority of individ-
uals on terrorism watchlists who were inter-
cepted by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol
were attempting to travel to the United
States by air; of the individuals on the ter-
rorist watchlist who were encountered while
entering the United States during fiscal year
2017, only 13 percent traveled by land. And
for those who have attempted to enter by
land, only a small fraction do so at the
southern border. Between October 2017 and
March 2018, forty-one foreign immigrants on
the terrorist watchlist were intercepted at
the northern border. Only six such immi-
grants were intercepted at the southern bor-
der.
5. There is no emergency related to violent
crime at the southern border. Nor can the ad-
ministration justify its actions on the
grounds that the incidence of violent crime
on the southern border constitutes a na-
tional emergency. Factual evidence consist-
ently shows that unauthorized immigrants
have no special proclivity to engage in
criminal or violent behavior. According to a
Cato Institute analysis of criminological
data, undocumented immigrants are 44 per-
cent less likely to be incarcerated nationwide
than are native-born citizens. And in Texas,
undocumented immigrants were found to
have a first-time conviction rate 32 percent
below that of native-born Americans; the
conviction rates of unauthorized immigrants
for violent crimes such as homicide and sex
offenses were also below those of native-born
Americans. Meanwhile, overall rates of vio-
lent crime in the United States have de-
clined significantly over the past 25 years,
falling 49 percent from 1993 to 2017. And vio-
lent crime rates in the country’s 30 largest
cities have decreased on average by 2.7 per-
cent in 2018 alone, further undermining any
suggestion that recent crime trends cur-
rently warrant the declaration of a national
emergency.
6. There is no human or drug trafficking emer-
gency that can be addressed by a wall at the
southern border. The administration has
claimed that the presence of human and drug
trafficking at the border justifies its emer-
gency declaration. But there is no evidence
of any such sudden crisis at the southern
border that necessitates a reprogramming of
appropriations to build a border wall.
a. The overwhelming majority of opioids
that enter the United States across a land
border are carried through legal ports of
entry in personal or commercial vehicles,
not smuggled through unauthorized border
crossings. A border wall would not stop these
drugs from entering the United States. Nor
would a wall stop drugs from entering via
other routes, including smuggling tunnels,
which circumvent such physical barriers as
fences and walls, and international mail
(which is how high-purity fentanyl, for ex-
ample, is usually shipped from China di-
rectly to the United States).
b. Likewise, illegal crossings at the south-
ern border are not the principal source of
human trafficking victims. About two-thirds
of human trafficking victims served by non-
profit organizations that receive funding
from the relevant Department of Justice of-
fice are U.S. citizens, and even among non-
citizens, most trafficking victims usually ar-
rive in the country on valid visas. None of
these instances of trafficking could be ad-
dressed by a border wall. And the three
states with the highest per capita trafficking
reporting rates are not even located along
the southern border.
7. This proclamation will only exacerbate the
humanitarian concerns that do exist at the
southern border. There are real humanitarian
concerns at the border, but they largely re-
sult from the current administration’s own
deliberate policies towards migrants. For ex-
ample, the administration has used a ‘‘me-
tering’’ policy to turn away families fleeing
extreme violence and persecution in their
home countries, forcing them to wait indefi-
nitely at the border to present their asylum
cases, and has adopted a number of other pu-
nitive steps to restrict those seeking asylum
at the southern border. These actions have
forced asylum-seekers to live on the streets
or in makeshift shelters and tent cities with
abysmal living conditions, and limited ac-
cess to basic sanitation has caused outbreaks
of disease and death. This state of affairs is
a consequence of choices this administration
has made, and erecting a wall will do noth-
ing to ease the suffering of these people.
8. Redirecting funds for the claimed ‘‘national
emergency’’ will undermine U.S. national secu-
rity and foreign policy interests. In the face of
a nonexistent threat, redirecting funds for
the construction of a wall along the southern
border will undermine national security by
needlessly pulling resources from Depart-
ment of Defense programs that are respon-
sible for keeping our troops and our country
safe and running effectively.
a. Repurposing funds from the defense con-
struction budget will drain money from crit-
ical defense infrastructure projects, possibly
including improvement of military hospitals,
construction of roads, and renovation of on-
base housing. And the proclamation will
likely continue to divert those armed forces
already deployed at the southern border
from their usual training activities or mis-
sions, affecting troop readiness.
b. In addition, the administration’s unilat-
eral, provocative actions are heightening
tensions with our neighbors to the south, at
a moment when we need their help to ad-
dress a range of Western Hemisphere con-
cerns. These actions are placing friendly
governments to the south under impossible
pressures and driving partners away. They
have especially strained our diplomatic rela-
tionship with Mexico, a relationship that is
vital to regional efforts ranging from critical
intelligence and law enforcement partner-
ships to cooperative efforts to address the
growing tensions with Venezuela. Addition-
ally, the proclamation could well lead to the
degradation of the natural environment in a
manner that could only contribute to long-
term socioeconomic and security challenges.
c. Finally, by declaring a national emer-
gency for domestic political reasons with no
compelling reason or justification from his
senior intelligence and law enforcement offi-
cials, the President has further eroded his
credibility with foreign leaders, both friend
and foe. Should a genuine foreign crisis
erupt, this lack of credibility will materially
weaken this administration’s ability to mar-
shal allies to support the United States, and
will embolden adversaries to oppose us.
9. The situation at the border does not require
the use of the armed forces, and a wall is unnec-
essary to support the use of the armed forces.
We understand that the administration is
also claiming that the situation at the
southern border ‘‘requires use of the armed
forces,’’ and that a wall is ‘‘necessary to sup-
port such use’’ of the armed forces. These
claims are implausible.
a. Historically, our country has deployed
National Guard troops at the border solely
to assist the Border Patrol when there was
an extremely high number of apprehensions,
together with a particularly low number of
Border Patrol agents. But currently, even
with retention and recruitment challenges,
the Border Patrol is at historically high
staffing and funding levels, and apprehen-
sions—measured in both absolute and per-
agent terms—are near historic lows.
b. Furthermore, the composition of south-
ern border crossings has shifted such that
families and unaccompanied minors now ac-
count for the majority of immigrants seek-
ing entry at the southern border; these indi-
viduals do not present a threat that would
need to be countered with military force.
c. Just last month, when asked what the
military is doing at the border that couldn’t
be done by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity if it had the funding for it, a top-level
defense official responded, ‘‘[n]one of the ca-
pabilities that we are providing [at the
southern border] are combat capabilities. It’s
not a war zone along the border.’’ Finally, it
is implausible that hundreds of miles of wall
across the southern border are somehow nec-
essary to support the use of armed forces. We
are aware of no military- or security-related
rationale that could remotely justify such an
endeavor.
10. There is no basis for circumventing the ap-
propriations process with a declaration of a na-
tional emergency at the southern border. We do
not deny that our nation faces real immigra-
tion and national security challenges. But as
the foregoing demonstrates, these challenges
demand a thoughtful, evidence-based strat-
egy, not a manufactured crisis that rests on
falsehoods and fearmongering. In a briefing
before the Senate Intelligence Committee on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.008 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1413
February 25, 2019
January 29, 2019, less than one month before
the Presidential Proclamation, the Directors
of the CIA, DNI, FBI, and NSA testified
about numerous serious current threats to
U.S. national security, but none of the offi-
cials identified a security crisis at the U.S.-
Mexico border. In a briefing before the House
Armed Services Committee the next day,
Pentagon officials acknowledged that the
2018 National Defense Strategy does not
identify the southern border as a security
threat. Leading legislators with access to
classified information and the President’s
own statements have strongly suggested, if
not confirmed, that there is no evidence sup-
porting the administration’s claims of an
emergency. And it is reported that the Presi-
dent made the decision to circumvent the ap-
propriations process and reprogram money
without the Acting Secretary of Defense
having even started to consider where the
funds might come from, suggesting an ab-
sence of consultation and internal delibera-
tions that in our experience are necessary
and expected before taking a decision of this
magnitude.
11. For all of the foregoing reasons, in our
professional opinion, there is no factual basis
for the declaration of a national emergency
for the purpose of circumventing the appro-
priations process and reprogramming bil-
lions of dollars in funding to construct a wall
at the southern border, as directed by the
Presidential Proclamation of February 15,
2019.
Respectfully submitted,
Signed/ *
Madeleine K. Albright, Jeremy B. Bash,
John B. Bellinger III, Daniel Benjamin,
Antony Blinken, John O. Brennan, R. Nich-
olas Burns, William J. Burns, Johnnie Car-
son, James Clapper.
David S. Cohen, Eliot A. Cohen, Ryan
Crocker, Thomas Donilon, Jen Easterly,
Nancy Ely-Raphel, Daniel P. Erikson, John
D. Feeley, Daniel F. Feldman, Jonathan
Finer.
Jendayi Frazer, Suzy George, Phil Gordon,
Chuck Hagel, Avril D. Haines, Luke Hartig,
Heather A. Higginbottom, Roberta Jacobson,
Gil Kerlikowske, John F. Kerry.
Prem Kumar, John E. McLaughlin, Lisa O.
Monaco, Janet Napolitano, James D. Nealon,
James C. O’Brien, Matthew G. Olsen, Leon E.
Panetta, Anne W. Patterson, Thomas R.
Pickering.
Amy Pope, Samantha J. Power, Jeffrey
Prescott, Nicholas Rasmussen, Alan Charles
Raul, Dan Restrepo, Susan E. Rice, Anne C.
Richard, Eric P. Schwartz, Andrew J. Sha-
piro.
Wendy R. Sherman, Vikram Singh, Dana
Shell Smith, Jeffrey H. Smith, Jake Sul-
livan, Strobe Talbott, Linda Thomas-Green-
field, Arturo A. Valenzuela.
Mr. SCHUMER. Even the President
himself, who is now declaring an emer-
gency, halfway through his meandering
speech proclaiming the emergency,
said: ‘‘I didn’t need to do this . . . but
I’d rather do it [build the wall] much
faster.’’
If there was ever a statement that
says this is not an emergency, that is
it. He said he didn’t need to do this. So,
my colleagues, my dear colleagues, if
we are going to let the President, any
President, on a whim, declare emer-
gencies just because he or she can’t get
their way in the Congress, we have fun-
damentally changed the building
blocks, these strong, proud building
blocks that the Founding Fathers put
into place.
Second, the President’s emergency
declaration could cannibalize funding
from worthy projects all over the coun-
try. We don’t even know yet which
projects he is planning to take the
funds from. I ask my colleagues to
think about that—what important ini-
tiatives in your State are on the
Trump chopping block? What military
project will the President cancel to
fund the border wall Congress rejected?
Third, and I made this point a little
bit at the beginning, but it bears re-
peating. Far and away most impor-
tantly, the President’s emergency dec-
laration is a fundamental distortion of
our constitutional order. The Constitu-
tion gives Congress the power of the
purse, not the President, and congres-
sional intent on the border wall is
clear. The President’s wall has been be-
fore Congress several times, and not
once has it garnered enough votes to
merit consideration. In some cases it
was with Republican votes. The Presi-
dent said that it was just the Demo-
crats who blocked it. That is not true.
There were Republican votes when the
wall was on the floor for voting as well.
As the great New Yorker, Justice
Jackson from Jamestown, NY, ob-
served, the President’s legal authority
in the realm of emergencies is at its
very weakest when it goes against the
expressed will of Congress. In case the
will of Congress was not already clear,
soon it will be made so. The obvious
remedy for President Trump’s out-
rageous and lawless declaration is for
Congress to vote to terminate the state
of emergency. The House will vote on
such a resolution tomorrow, and the
Senate will soon follow suit.
I know my friends on the other side
of the aisle fashion themselves sup-
porters of the military, defenders of
property rights, and stewards of the
Constitution, as do Democrats. This
vote on the resolution to terminate the
state of emergency will test our fidel-
ity to those principles.
Congress should come together to re-
ject in a bipartisan fashion—we have
come together before in bipartisan
ways. If ever there were one moment
that cries out for bipartisan rejection
of an overreach of power, this is it. We
should reject this naked power grab,
this defacement of our constitutional
balance of powers, for what seem to be
largely political purposes.
f
NORTH KOREA
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
the President is on his way to Thailand
for a second summit with Chairman
Kim of North Korea. It is in all of our
interests for the President to achieve a
diplomatic resolution with North
Korea that achieves a stable peace and
the complete, verifiable, and irrevers-
ible denuclearization of the Korean Pe-
ninsula. Failing that, the Congress
must continue to pressure a regime
that permits gross humanitarian
abuses and remains one of the most re-
pressive governments on the globe.
We cannot tolerate the President
making concessions without, in ex-
change, receiving verifiable, enduring,
and concrete commitments from North
Korea to denuclearize.
President Trump’s first summit with
Chairman Kim granted his regime the
international legitimacy and accept-
ance that Kim has long craved while
undermining our policy of maximum
pressure and sanctions, seemingly so
the President could have a photo op
and make a speech.
Unsurprisingly, the results of that
meeting were disappointing. The Presi-
dent claimed, bizarrely and wildly,
that North Korea is ‘‘no longer a nu-
clear threat’’ right after the meeting,
while the U.S. intelligence community
has continually testified before Con-
gress that North Korea has not been
denuclearizing and appears unlikely to
give up its nuclear weapons. So how
can the President say it is no longer a
nuclear threat when the same threat
existed when he threatened North
Korea earlier and after, when he
seemed to make nice to President Kim?
Meanwhile, the President suspended
joint military readiness drills with the
South Koreans—drills we have been
conducting for 60 years for the safety
of East Asia.
No one wants to see a repeat of the
same movie. No one wants another
summit that is more about photo ops
and optics than progress. We are all
rooting for diplomacy to succeed, but
the President can’t be too naive or too
eager to reach a deal that gives him
the photo op again but that doesn’t
achieve the complete denuclearization
of the Korean Peninsula.
f
CHINA
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, in
a similar vein, on China, President
Trump announced he would be delaying
the imposition of higher tariffs on
March 1, in the hopes of coming to a
larger trade agreement. This is all well
and good if the Trump administration
ultimately achieves a strong deal that
makes progress on China’s rapacious
trade policies. But we are not there
yet, and my message to President
Trump is don’t back down.
The President has shown the right in-
stincts on China many times. I give
him credit for that. I have praised him
publicly for that, but at other times, I
believe his eagerness for the appear-
ance of accomplishment gets the best
of him. Recent history has taught us
that when President Trump makes uni-
lateral concessions to China—as he did
when he interfered in the sanctions
against ZTE—China does very little for
us in return.
President Trump must not make the
same mistake again, whether by inter-
fering in the U.S. criminal charges
brought against Huawei or otherwise
decreasing our leverage, until and un-
less China makes meaningful, enforce-
able, and verifiable agreements to end
its theft of American intellectual prop-
erty and other trade abuses.
Hopefully, that is where the negotia-
tions are headed. If the President does
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.010 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1414 February 25, 2019
a good job, I will be the first to praise
him. If he backs off or takes some tem-
porary measure in decreasing the bal-
ance of trade but doesn’t change Chi-
na’s structural rapaciousness against
the United States and our intellectual
property and our industrial know-how,
he will be criticized by me and many
others on both sides of the aisle.
f
S. 311
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, a
word on today’s vote on women’s repro-
ductive rights: The bill the Senate will
vote on shortly is carefully crafted to
target, intimidate, and shut down re-
productive healthcare providers. Doc-
tors across this country—Democratic
doctors, Republican doctors—are lining
up against the bill because it would im-
pose requirements on what type of care
doctors must provide in certain cir-
cumstances, even if that care is inef-
fective, contradictory to medical evi-
dence, and against the family’s wishes.
My Republican colleagues have said
some incendiary things about opposing
this bill. Let me be very clear. Many of
these claims are false. It has always
been illegal to harm a newborn infant.
This vote has nothing—nothing—to do
with that. Read the language. We are
talking about situations when expect-
ant parents tragically learn their preg-
nancy is no longer viable, and there is
a fatal diagnosis. What happens in
those circumstances should be decided
between a woman, her family, her min-
ister, priest, rabbi, imam, and her doc-
tor.
It makes no sense for Washington
politicians who know nothing about in-
dividual circumstances to say they
know better than the doctors or the pa-
tients and their families. The bill is
solely meant to intimidate doctors and
restrict patients’ access to care and
has nothing—nothing, nothing—to do
with protecting children.
Last Friday, the administration an-
nounced it was imposing a gag rule on
U.S. reproductive healthcare providers
and trying to restrict access to
healthcare clinics that provide repro-
ductive care. So this vote doesn’t occur
in a vacuum. It is part of a pattern of
actions taken by President Trump and
congressional Republicans to limit,
deny, or circumscribe a woman’s right
to healthcare.
I urge the American people to do
their own research, read the bill, and
see what it says. Most of you will agree
with it. Pay attention to the facts and
not the false rhetoric. This bill is
Washington politics at its worst. I will
vote no.
f
VICTIMS OF 9/11 COMPENSATION
FUND
Mr. SCHUMER. Finally—and this
time it is finally, I say to my good
friend from Nebraska—I turn the at-
tention of my colleagues to a
harrowing fact: We are vastly ap-
proaching the point where more people
will have died from exposure to toxic
chemicals on 9/11 than were killed on 9/
11 itself. These are the first responders,
firefighters, police, and FBI agents who
rushed to the towers that fateful day,
ran into the fire, smoke, and twisted
steel, risking their lives and, later, we
learned, risking their health to get
people out. These are the union mem-
bers and construction workers who
worked at the pile, breathing in a toxic
blend of ash and dust in the days and
weeks and months that followed. These
are the people, the innocents, who lived
downtown when the United States was
attacked in the most dastardly attack
on American soil.
Right now we have a problem. While
these folks are heroes and, sadly, many
are suffering—because of the alarming
number who are suffering from 9/11-re-
lated illnesses, the victim compensa-
tion fund is running out of money ear-
lier than expected. The Justice Depart-
ment recently announced that it might
have to cut compensation awards be-
tween 50 and 70 percent.
So today I was proud to join Senators
GILLIBRAND and GARDNER, as well as a
group of our colleagues in the House,
to introduce legislation to fix the
shortfall of funding and put the vic-
tims’ compensation fund on sure foot-
ing for the foreseeable future.
I urge all of my colleagues, Democrat
and Republican alike, to sign on and
help us pass this bill and give some
hope to the thousands who were brave
on 9/11 and who are suffering now.
I yield the floor.
f
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT—MO-
TION TO PROCEED—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to S. 311, which the clerk will
report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to S. 311, a bill to amend
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a
health care practitioner from failing to exer-
cise the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
Mr. SASSE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the time until
5:30 p.m. today, including quorum calls,
be equally divided between the two
leaders or their designees.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SASSE. Madam President, I just
listened to the senior Senator from
New York—my friend from the gym
and the minority leader—deliver some
summaries of what he said was in the
bill before us, and he implored this
body and implored the people watching
on C–SPAN to read the bill, stating
they would find that all of these ter-
rible things are in the bill.
I see the minority leader has to leave
the floor now, but, humbly, I would
urge him to come back and show us
where any of what he just said is in
this bill. What he said wasn’t true.
I rise today for a simple purpose. I
want to ask each and every one of our
colleagues whether we are OK with in-
fanticide. This language is blunt. I rec-
ognize that, and it is too blunt for
many people in this body, but, frankly,
that is what we are talking about here
today.
Infanticide is what the abortion sur-
vivors—Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act is actually about.
Are we a country that protects babies
who are alive, born outside the womb
after having survived a botched abor-
tion? That is what this is about.
Are we a country that says it is OK
to actively allow that baby to die,
which is the current position of Fed-
eral law? That is the question before
us, plain and simple.
Here are the facts. We know that
some babies, especially late in gesta-
tion, survive attempted abortions. We
know, too, that some of these babies
are left to die—left to die. No further
protections exist today to shield them
from this ugly fate, and only some
States have protections on their books.
We have seen in our national discourse
over the last month and a half a few
States moving in different ways to
undo protections that some of these ba-
bies have had at the State level.
The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act is trying to right this
obvious wrong. The bill’s terms are
simple: A child born alive during a
botched abortion would be given the
same level of care that would be pro-
vided to any other baby born at that
same gestational age. That is it.
This bill isn’t about abortion. I am
pro-life—unapologetically pro-life—but
this bill is not about anything that
limits abortion. This bill doesn’t have
anything to do with Roe v. Wade. This
bill is about something else. What this
bill does is try to secure basic rights,
equal rights for babies who are born
and are outside the womb. That is what
we are talking about.
Over the course of the next hour, as
this is debated on the floor, people are
going to say a whole bunch of other
things. I would ask them to please
bring the text of the bill to the floor
when they do it and show us whether
there is anything about limiting abor-
tion in this bill.
This bill is exclusively about pro-
tecting babies who have already been
born and are outside of the womb.
Every baby deserves a fighting chance,
whether that 24-week old baby, fight-
ing for air and fighting for life, having
just taken her first breaths, is at an
abortion clinic where she survived a
botched abortion or she is in a delivery
room at the local hospital. Both of
those babies are equally deserving of
care, protection, and humane treat-
ment, and our laws should treat both of
these human beings as babies because
they are babies. They have been born,
and they are outside of the womb.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.005 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1415
February 25, 2019
This really should not be controver-
sial. In fact, my colleagues actually
talk this way all of the time. This
place feels like about one-third of the
people here are currently running for
President, so I would like to quote a
few of them over the course of the last
couple months.
We ought to ‘‘build a country where
no one is forgotten, and no one is left
behind.’’ Amen to that. Amen to that.
‘‘The people in our society who are
most often targeted by predators are
also often the voiceless and the vulner-
able.’’
That is true.
Another offered a promise to ‘‘fight
for other people’s kids as hard as I
fight for my own kids.’’
Last week, our colleague from
Vermont announced his campaign by
saying: ‘‘The mark of a great Nation is
. . . how it treats its most vulnerable
people.’’ BERNIE SANDERS was right.
Now is the chance, in this body, to
make good on that promise. Now is the
chance to protect one of the most vul-
nerable populations on the land imag-
inable—tiny, defenseless, little babies,
just having taken their first breath—or
was that claptrap for the campaign
trail or sound-bites? Or do people mean
the stuff they say around here?
Let’s put it another way. Today’s
vote asks whether or not you want to
take the side of people like Virginia’s
disgraced Governor Ralph Northam?
Last month, before the news of his
hideous yearbook broke, Governor
Northam made clear that a baby born
alive during an abortion could and
maybe ought to be killed if that is
what the parents and doctors decided
they wanted to do after a debate. That
was his position: You should make the
baby ‘‘comfortable,’’ and then there
could be a discussion about whether or
not you throw that little baby into the
trash can. That is what he actually
talked about on the radio for a day and
a half last month.
Governor Northam is disgraceful for
a whole host of reasons, but unlike
some other people, he actually told the
truth about what he wants. He wants a
society where some people count more
than others, and other people are
worth less than others. He wants a so-
ciety where some people can be pushed
aside if they are inconvenient. In re-
ality, that is what we are voting on
today.
Some of my colleagues want to write
into our law a kind of permanent ex-
ception: ‘‘Every human being should be
protected from cruel and inhuman
treatment—unless that human being
came into the world through a botched
abortion.’’ Then, you can decide later if
you want to kill them.
Tonight, what we are going to vote
on in the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act is a chance to
see whether we are serious when people
around here say they want to protect
the innocent, speak up for the voice-
less, and defend the defenseless. To-
night, we are going to have the oppor-
tunity to do exactly that. We can come
to the aid of innocent, voiceless, de-
fenseless little babies who have just
taken their first breaths by protecting
him and her from mistreatment and
neglect.
This should be, frankly, the easiest
vote we ever cast in this body, but the
prospect of what we are voting on here
is threatening to one of the most pow-
erful interest groups in America. The
abortion industry has taken to attack-
ing this bill wildly over the course of
the last 2 weeks, even though, as we
made clear repeatedly and as the text
of this bill makes indisputably clear,
this bill has nothing to do with abor-
tion itself. Nothing in this bill changes
the slightest letter of Roe v. Wade.
Nothing touches abortion access in this
bill.
This bill is about living and breath-
ing babies who are alive outside the
womb. That is all that the text of this
bill does, but Planned Parenthood and
NARAL and their allies feel threatened
by a bill to protect alive, out-of-the-
womb babies. In other words, unlike
this legislation, Planned Parenthood
and others refuse to draw any line be-
tween abortion and infanticide. That is
what their lobbying the last week has
shown. That should tell us something
about what these groups are really
about. What they are about is a society
built on power—the power of some peo-
ple to decide whether other people get
to live or die.
This bill is a stumbling block to any-
one who thinks that some lives are less
valuable than others. This bill is a
stumbling block to anyone who thinks
that certain human beings should be
disposable. This bill is a stumbling
block to anyone who thinks that we
should be able to quietly rid ourselves
of little people who were ‘‘inconven-
ient’’ or supposedly ‘‘unwanted.’’
They are not unwanted. There are
lots of people in every single State in
this Union lined up waiting to adopt,
including kids who have lots of hard
life circumstances. In every State
there are waiting lists of people who
will take so-called unwanted babies.
America is a country built on a dif-
ferent principle. Ours is a country dedi-
cated to the proposition that all men
and women—all boys and girls—are
created equal, even the littlest—even if
they happen to come into the world
under the most horrible circumstances,
even if they are crippled or inconven-
ient, or, apparently, for a moment, un-
wanted. Ours is a country that recog-
nizes the fundamental indistinguish-
able dignity of every human being, re-
gardless of race, or sex, or creed, or
ability. As a country, we have strug-
gled for 2 centuries—sometimes at
enormous cost—to extend those basic
human rights to more and more of our
fellow citizens. Today’s vote is simply
an opportunity to continue that work.
Let me say by way of closing that de-
spite oppositions and setbacks and de-
spite some strange rhetoric about this
bill over the course of the last week, I
am hopeful in the long term. Deep
down, each of us knows that every
member of our human family ought to
be protected and deserves to be cher-
ished and loved. The love we see every
day in the eyes of moms and dads for
their newborn babies is an inescapable
reminder of that fundamental truth.
Love is stronger than power.
Thank you, Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise
today, in commemoration of Black His-
tory Month, to recognize, honor, and
pay tribute to five Pennsylvanians who
have committed themselves to creating
innovative solutions to our Nation’s
most pressing problems.
For 13 years, I have stood on this
floor on this Monday, every year, to
pay tribute to Pennsylvanians. Some-
times it has been one individual, and
sometimes it has been more than one,
but today we have five honorees.
While these innovators hail from dif-
ferent backgrounds and have each mas-
tered a different craft, they share one
thing in common, and that is a com-
mitment to their communities and to
improving the lives of others in
groundbreaking ways.
Today, we will honor the individual
work of the following people. I will list
them for you first and then talk about
each of them in succession: first, the
Reverend Dr. Lorina Marshall-Blake;
second, Joan Myers Brown; third,
Sulaiman Rahman; fourth, Rakia Rey-
nolds; and fifth, Omar Woodward. You
will hear more about each of them in a
moment. There is no one way, of
course, to make a difference in our so-
ciety. I hope the stories of today’s hon-
orees will help to inspire the next gen-
eration of leaders. These honorees are
with us here in Washington today, and
we are grateful to have the chance to
spend a couple of minutes talking
about each of them.
Let me start with the Reverend Dr.
Lorina Marshall-Blake, someone I have
known for a long time. This is the
story of a woman who has spent her
life working to build healthier commu-
nities by advancing the conversation
on issues like the opioid crisis and
health disparities in our Nation, just to
mention two things.
Lorina Marshall-Blake’s life began in
West Philadelphia, alongside her sister
and three brothers. She excelled in her
education, earning degrees from Anti-
och College and the University of
Pennsylvania.
Today, Lorina is vice president of
community affairs for Independence
Blue Cross and also president of the
Independence Blue Cross Foundation.
Lorina has spent the better part of 30
years working to improve access and
healthcare outcomes for those across
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.007 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1416 February 25, 2019
the region of Southeastern Pennsyl-
vania, which is Philadelphia and the
counties and communities around the
city of Philadelphia. Her faith-driven
work continues outside of the office,
where she serves as an associate min-
ister at the Vine Memorial Baptist
Church.
Lorina is affiliated with over 30 pro-
fessional and civic organizations. I will
just mention a few: The United Negro
College Fund, the Greater Philadelphia
Chamber of Commerce, and the Urban
Affairs Coalition. While the health and
well-being of our Nation is not perfect,
it is in great part thanks to women
like Lorina Marshall-Blake that the fu-
ture of healthcare and the future of ac-
cess to healthcare is only brighter.
The second individual we are hon-
oring is Joan Myers Brown. We all
know that art itself has the power to
enrich lives and inspire change. At the
age of 17, Joan Myers Brown decided
she was going to be a professional bal-
lerina. She refused to let pervasive rac-
ism and segregation stop her from
touring as a member of dance revues
for Cab Calloway, Pearl Bailey, and
Sammy Davis, Jr.
After excelling in her own right, she
decided she wanted to give opportunity
to others. To that end, in 1960, Joan
Myers Brown started her own dance
school in West Philadelphia called the
Philadelphia School of Dance Arts.
Building on that work, she founded the
Philadelphia Dance Company in 1970.
This dance company was created to
provide opportunities for Black dancers
who were systemically denied entrance
to local schools. The company con-
tinues to be recognized across the
world for its dancers and for its per-
formances.
Personally, Joan is an industry icon
in both the national and international
art communities. For example, in 2005,
the Kennedy Center honored her as a
master of African-American choreog-
raphy, and in 2009, she received the
prestigious Philadelphia Award. In
2012, she received the National Medal of
the Arts, the Nation’s highest civic
honor for excellence in the arts. The
arts have benefited greatly from Joan
Myers Brown.
Third is Sulaiman Rahman. No indi-
vidual’s success is achieved alone. We
know that, and many in Philadelphia
and beyond owe some of their success
to Mr. Rahman. He has dedicated his
life to empowering young professionals
to personal and professional success.
After graduating from the University
of Pennsylvania, Sulaiman started his
career as an entrepreneur. He founded
a platform for urban professionals to
find local social, civic, and business
events, and he successfully built an
international marketing and distrib-
uting business.
With the goal of ending the oppor-
tunity gap for people of color,
Sulaiman created the Urban Philly
Professional Network and, later,
DiverseForce, and the DiverseForce on
Boards program. Every day he works to
empower and connect the diverse lead-
ers from multiple sectors and commu-
nities. He creates high-tech solutions
to impact a more diverse business cul-
ture.
When he is not running DiverseForce,
he is serving on a number of boards, in-
cluding the Community College of
Philadelphia Foundation, TeenSHARP,
and the Year Up Greater Philadelphia
Chapter.
Rakia Reynolds. We know that some
of our Nation’s greatest successes have
been born out of interdisciplinary col-
laboration. Few in the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania know how to bring
people together for new opportunities
like Rakia Reynolds. From her earliest
days as a child reading the book ‘‘A
Wrinkle in Time,’’ she has always been
committed to making things happen.
She is a New Jersey native. She
moved to Philadelphia to pursue a de-
gree at Temple University. After work-
ing as a television and magazine pro-
ducer, she started her own company,
Skai Blue Media.
Among other ventures, she helped to
craft Philadelphia’s Amazon bid and
continues to advise and grow small
businesses of all types. She gives back
to her community as the copresident of
the Philadelphia chapter of Women in
Film & Television and serves as a
board advisor for Fashion Group Inter-
national and the National Association
for Multi-Ethnicity in Communica-
tions.
In addition to her full-time work in
multimedia communications, Rakia is
a wife to her best friend, her husband
Bram, and mother to her three amaz-
ing children.
Finally, our fifth honoree is Omar
Woodward. Like many of today’s suc-
cessful leaders, Omar Woodward under-
stands the importance of social enter-
prises and knows how to look beyond
what meets the eye.
Omar is a Southeastern Pennsylvania
native. He is the executive director of
the Philadelphia branch of the
GreenLight Fund, a nonprofit venture
capital firm that invests in evidence-
based social innovations focused on
ending poverty.
At the GreenLight Fund, Omar is in-
vesting millions of dollars to address
the needs of many Philadelphians, in-
cluding bringing formerly incarcerated
individuals back into the job market,
helping low-income children receive
quality care, and ensuring that those
who were eligible have access to public
assistance programs.
Widely recognized for his expertise in
nonprofit board governance, Omar is
also a board member of the Philan-
thropy Network Greater Philadelphia,
the Global Philadelphia Association,
the Maternity Care Coalition, and the
Girard College Foundation, and he
holds multiple degrees from George
Washington University.
In closing, these five individuals have
overcome significant barriers to be-
come pioneers in their fields and lead-
ers in their communities. Throughout
their careers, these innovators have
recognized gaps within communities,
developed creative ideas, and brought
these ideas to life by using their deter-
mination, their passion, and their tal-
ent. We celebrate Black History Month
to commemorate the great leaders of
the past but also to celebrate the lead-
ers of today and the leaders of tomor-
row—the future.
It is my honor to recognize and to
pay tribute to the Rev. Dr. Lorina Mar-
shall-Blake, Joan Myers Brown,
Sulaiman Rahman, Rakia Reynolds,
and Omar Woodard for their work in
creating a stronger, more innovative
Philadelphia. I look forward to the
work these leaders will continue to do
and the impact their work will have on
the city of Philadelphia, our Common-
wealth, and our Nation.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
S. 311
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, I
rise to voice my full support for the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, offered by my colleague from
Nebraska.
Today’s vote on this important bill is
going to give every Member of the Sen-
ate a chance to show America where
one stands on the basic right of care
for newborn babies.
Throughout my career in public serv-
ice, I have been a strong supporter of
pro-life policies that show compassion
to women and children. During my
time in the Nebraska Legislature, we
passed the first statewide ban on abor-
tion procedures after 20 weeks. Mem-
bers from all points of the political
spectrum—Republican, Democratic,
pro-life, and pro-choice—came together
to support that bill. We have the oppor-
tunity today to come together—Repub-
licans and Democrats—to stand up for
the lives of newborn infants in the U.S.
Senate.
The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act protects the lives of
children who survive attempted abor-
tions. Simply put, if a baby survives an
abortion, he or she deserves the same
medical care as any other child who is
born prematurely. Without question,
newborns deserve care, attention, and
love. This should not be a divisive
issue. This is an issue that is funda-
mental to what it means to be an
American citizen and, more so, what it
means to be a human being. Our
Founding Fathers believed, unequivo-
cally, that every person born in the
United States has a right to life, lib-
erty, and the pursuit of happiness. The
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act should be, without any doubt,
a measure that is passed in the Senate.
Like most Nebraskans, I have been
deeply disturbed by the actions in Vir-
ginia, New York, and the new extremes
that have been pushed in the ensuing
national debate that it is OK to deny
newborn abortion survivors medical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.009 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1417
February 25, 2019
care. As we all know, a bill was intro-
duced in the Virginia House of Dele-
gates that would make it easier to get
a third-term abortion. When discussing
this legislation, the Governor of Vir-
ginia recently made extremely dis-
turbing comments in defending the bill
and promoting infanticide when he de-
scribed the process of an abortion pro-
cedure taking place while a mother was
in labor. These policies and lines of
thought fly in the face of our core val-
ues, and they have to end.
In leading up to the vote today, crit-
ics across the aisle have mounted a
campaign of misinformation to try to
knock this bill off course. To be clear,
this legislation does not set any limits
on the rights of one to obtain an abor-
tion or abortion procedures or meth-
ods. The Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act would ensure
that if newborns survive abortions,
then they would receive the same care
and the same attention to their health
as would any other newborn. Newborn
children should never be treated with-
out basic human rights or the full pro-
tection of our laws because they are
not wanted, especially when reports
have estimated that nearly 2 million
couples in the United States are cur-
rently waiting to adopt children—2
million.
There is simply no excuse for an in-
fant not to receive lifesaving care. We
live in a nation that was founded upon
the basic rights of dignity, self-worth,
and equality for every human being. In
2002, the Born-Alive Infants Protection
Act passed the House of Representa-
tives by a voice vote; it passed the Sen-
ate by unanimous consent; and it was
signed into law by President Bush. We
have the chance right now to build
upon that 2002 consensus that those
who survive abortions are, in fact, peo-
ple and to clarify that they deserve
medical care. We can come together
today to support this sound policy once
more. We can clarify, in light of the ex-
tremism we have seen displayed re-
cently, that newborn abortion sur-
vivors deserve medical care.
I thank my fellow Nebraskan for his
good work on this bill, and I will be
voting to affirm that children deserve
protection at every stage of life.
I ask all of my colleagues in the Sen-
ate to support this measure and to vote
in favor of this important bill that is
before us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Madam President, I rise
to join Senator MURRAY and my col-
leagues in standing up for doctors and
patients in my home State of Min-
nesota and across the country.
S. 311 puts Congress in the middle of
the important medical decisions that
patients and doctors should make to-
gether without having political inter-
ference. It would compel physicians to
provide unnecessary medical care. It
would override physicians’ professional
judgments about what is best for their
patients, and it would put physicians
in the position of facing criminal pen-
alties if their judgments about what is
best for their patients are contrary to
what is described in this bill.
Colleagues, let me be clear. For
women, this is a healthcare issue, not a
political issue, and this bill, I fear,
interferes with the doctor-patient rela-
tionship, which should worry us all. We
can all agree that people deserve the
best medical care based on their indi-
vidual needs and their doctors’ best
medical advice. This is how our med-
ical system is supposed to work—physi-
cians and patients making decisions to-
gether that are based on patients’ indi-
vidual needs.
Everybody is different. For example,
any oncologist will tell you that each
cancer patient’s treatment is different.
Treatment plans depend on the type of
cancer and how advanced the cancer is.
Decisions about cancer treatments also
depend on each person’s age and life-
style and individual circumstances.
The same is true when it comes to
pregnancy. Any obstetrician will tell
you that every pregnancy is different
and that when complications arise,
they can completely change the course
of treatment. In that moment, women
and their families and their doctors are
the only ones who are able to make de-
cisions about what is best for a woman
and her pregnancy.
Think about what this means in real
life. In August of 2016, Tippy, who is
from Minnesota and has agreed for me
to share her story, was pregnant and,
with her husband, went to their 20-
week ultrasound appointment. They
were excited because they thought
they were about to find out the gender
of their new baby, and they had al-
ready bought decorations for the gen-
der reveal party. Instead, Tippy and
her husband got devastating news from
that ultrasound. Their baby, a boy, had
stopped developing properly and would
not survive. They would never get to
meet him and never get to hold him.
The ultrasound revealed not only the
tragic news about this much wanted
child but also showed a dangerous con-
dition that threatened Tippy’s own
health. Tippy’s placenta was enlarged,
and to continue her pregnancy would
risk the health of her reproductive sys-
tem and her ability to have future chil-
dren of her own.
Tippy, with her family and her doc-
tor, made the difficult decision to have
an abortion in order to save her repro-
ductive system. Because she was able
to make that medical decision, she was
able to have another baby a year later.
Tippy and her husband are today the
proud parents of an 18-month-old child.
When Tippy and her husband made
their decision, it was based on guidance
from her doctor and what was right for
them and the family they hoped to
have in the future.
They didn’t need politicians to be
looking over their shoulders in the doc-
tor’s office and telling them what to
do. None of us in this body should be in
the business of interfering in that doc-
tor-patient relationship. We don’t tell
oncologists how to treat their patients;
we don’t tell emergency room doctors
how to save lives; and we shouldn’t tell
women’s doctors how to take care of
their patients.
Colleagues, that is what this bill
does. It would give politicians in this
room the power to make medical deci-
sions for women and their families.
This bill intimidates providers and
forces physicians to provide inappro-
priate medical treatment even when it
is not in the best interests of their pa-
tients or their families.
Colleagues, we should treat women
with respect. Decisions about women’s
healthcare aren’t different from deci-
sions about men’s healthcare, so why
are we treating women differently?
This legislation, if it were to become
law, would put doctors in an untenable
position: Do they follow the law or do
they follow their code of professional
ethics?
Colleagues, let’s get out of the busi-
ness of dictating medical care for
women. Let’s continue to trust women
and their doctors. I urge my colleagues
to oppose this legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The Senator from Iowa.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, this
evening, as we debate this very impor-
tant bill, I am hearing two different
strategies, two different discussions,
about what is actually on the floor in
front of us. You see, my colleagues
across the aisle are debating a bill that
is not in front of us. They are talking
about healthcare for women, which is
abortion. That is what they are talking
about.
This bill does not address abortion. It
does not address women’s healthcare
issues. What this bill does is address
the healthcare of a baby who is born
alive after a botched abortion. We are
not talking about abortion, folks. We
are talking about the life of a child
who is born. So, while my colleagues
across the aisle are saying this is about
abortion, that this is about a mother’s
healthcare, that is absolutely incor-
rect. We are talking about a human
life.
In recent weeks, we have witnessed
the ugly truth about the far-reaching
grasp of the abortion industry and its
ever-increasingly radicalized political
agenda. Some politicians have not only
defended aborting a child while a
woman is in labor but have gone so far
as to support the termination of a child
after his birth. This assault on human
dignity cannot stand. We can and must
do better, and we can as a nation do
better to defend and uphold the basic
values of compassion and decency that
define our very society.
I thank the junior Senator from Ne-
braska for offering this commonsense
legislation that addresses this issue in
a compassionate manner and provides
critical protections for children who
are born alive after surviving abor-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.010 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1418 February 25, 2019
Although previous laws were passed
that recognize infants born alive dur-
ing abortion proceedings as legal per-
sons, there still exists a critical loop-
hole that prevents abortionists from
being held accountable for failing to
follow these very laws.
This legislation closes the gap and
ensures that there are concrete en-
forcement measures to protect children
who survive abortion attempts.
We can all agree that any child who
is born alive, whether through a nat-
ural birth or a botched abortion, is a
living person, a person who is worthy
of the utmost dignity, compassion, and
respect. This legislation ensures just
that by simply requiring healthcare
practitioners to treat those babies who
survive an abortion attempt with the
same degree of care any other baby
born at the same gestational age would
receive.
This legislation is not meant to pun-
ish women or mothers during an often
heart-wrenching and difficult experi-
ence. In fact, this legislation specifi-
cally prohibits mothers from being
prosecuted. Instead, this bill quite sim-
ply imposes penalties for the inten-
tional killing of a baby who has been
born alive.
Today, we have an opportunity to
categorically reject infanticide by en-
suring that the laws we have on the
books preventing this abhorrent prac-
tice are meaningfully enforced and
that those who fail to follow such laws
can be held accountable.
I urge my colleagues to set aside par-
tisanship and support this much need-
ed, compassionate solution. We as a na-
tion can do better. We must protect
those babies who are born alive.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise
today in strong opposition to the legis-
lation that the Presiding Officer has
authored. It would significantly inter-
fere with the doctor-patient relation-
ship, and it would pose new obstacles
to a woman’s constitutionally pro-
tected right to make her own decisions
about her reproductive health.
Regardless of what the intent of the
legislation is, the fact is, the way it is
written, it intimidates doctors with
the threat of criminal liability for per-
forming safe and legal abortions. It
will have a chilling effect on the abil-
ity of women to access the services
they need in the United States.
We must always remember that abor-
tions that are performed later in preg-
nancy are most often done as the result
of severe fetal diagnoses and the seri-
ous risks that pregnancy poses to the
life of the mother.
And let’s be very clear: This isn’t a
decision that any women or family
wants to be in a position to make. It is
tragic and it is heartbreaking, and ef-
forts to politicize the trauma of women
and families who have been forced to
make this decision are really shameful,
and it sets a dangerous precedent for
women’s comprehensive healthcare.
By installing new uncertainty and
risk of criminal liability into the proc-
ess for late-term abortions, this legis-
lation increases the risk that women
will not be able to get the medical care
they need when their pregnancy poses
a risk to their lives. This bill ignores
those important realities in what ap-
pears to be an attempt to score polit-
ical points with anti-choice groups.
Again and again, at every turn, we
have seen this administration and our
Republican colleagues push forward
policies intended to threaten access to
abortion care. Just last week, the
Trump administration cut off critical
family planning resources for family
planning clinics that offer information
and referrals for women seeking to ob-
tain legal abortions. If you want to
prevent abortions, you want to make
sure families have access to family
planning. We know that is an impor-
tant way to reduce the number of abor-
tions in this country.
So we are seeing that this bill is just
another line of attack in the ongoing
war on women’s health. Now more than
ever, we need to stand up and help pro-
tect women’s healthcare and make cer-
tain that abortions remain safe and
legal.
I urge my colleagues to oppose this
legislation and its consideration on the
Senate floor.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The Senator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I would
like to first thank Senator MURRAY for
her steadfast leadership in the fight to
protect women’s healthcare and for ar-
ranging this time for us to speak this
afternoon.
The legislation we are debating today
is just the latest salvo in the far-right
wing assault on a woman’s constitu-
tionally protected right to an abortion.
With all due respect to my colleague
from Nebraska who introduced this leg-
islation, this bill is a solution in search
of a problem. Contrary to what the pro-
ponents of this bill argue, it is and has
always been a crime to harm or kill
newborn babies. People guilty of this
crime can already be charged and pros-
ecuted to the full extent of the law.
Let’s be clear. The Senate isn’t de-
bating this legislation today because
there is an epidemic of infanticide in
this country. There is not one. There
isn’t one. I can hardly say it because it
is really not happening; therefore, this
bill is a solution in search of a prob-
lem. Instead, we are indulging the ma-
jority’s use of a false premise to in-
flame the public, shame women, and
intimidate healthcare providers.
When you strip away the ultra-
conservative rhetoric, you are left with
a very simple argument from sup-
porters of this legislation—that the
moral judgment of rightwing politi-
cians in Washington, DC, should super-
sede a medical professional’s judgment
and a woman’s decision. Conservative
politicians should not be telling doc-
tors how they should care for their pa-
tients. Instead, women, in consultation
with their families and doctors, are in
the best position to determine their
best course of care.
In talking to healthcare providers in
Hawaii, I have heard how this legisla-
tion and other bills like it in States
across the country could force them to
provide care that is unnecessary or
even harmful to patients. The Hawaii
Section of the College of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists made this point per-
suasively in testimony recently sub-
mitted to our State legislature’s house
committee on health earlier this
month. In opposing similar so-called
born-alive abortion legislation heard in
Hawaii’s State Legislature—which
didn’t make it out of committee, by
the way—the group of doctors wrote:
We are physicians who provide compas-
sionate, evidence-based care. By criminal-
izing healthcare providers, this law may ac-
tually reduce the number of healthcare pro-
viders (not just the surgeons, but anesthe-
siologists, nurses, midwives, office staff)
willing to provide this care. But again, that
is the actual intent of this bill. Reducing ac-
cess to safe abortion care would threaten the
health of women in Hawaii.
We are the physicians who care for pa-
tients when they find out their very wanted,
very loved baby has severe fetal anomalies.
Families sometimes choose to end the preg-
nancy and provide their baby with palliative
care rather than subject their baby to any
suffering or futile efforts at resuscitation.
These families face very difficult decisions
about what their values are and what is best
for their family; decisions that none of us
has a right to make for them or judge them
for. What they need in these moments is
compassion and medically accurate informa-
tion from healthcare providers free of judg-
ment or politics.
I couldn’t agree more, and that is
why I urge my colleagues to oppose
this legislation.
In just a few minutes, I expect the
Senate will defeat this bill because it
will fail to win the required 60 votes.
Nevertheless, the threat to women’s re-
productive rights is intensifying in
States and courtrooms all across the
country. Over the past few years,
States have enacted hundreds—hun-
dreds—of laws that harm women’s
health and violate their constitutional
right to an abortion.
Mississippi enacted a prohibition on
abortion after 15 weeks of pregnancy.
Texas, Alabama, Arkansas, Ken-
tucky, and Ohio have passed laws ban-
ning dilation and evacuation—D&E—an
abortion procedure used usually during
the second trimester.
Indiana enacted a bevy of new abor-
tion restrictions, including a law re-
quiring every woman seeking an abor-
tion to have an ultrasound—talk about
invasive—and mandated she wait 18
hours after the ultrasound to have an
abortion.
Louisiana passed legislation requir-
ing abortion providers to have admit-
ting privileges at local hospitals. This
law would result in only one abortion
provider in a State of 4.7 million peo-
ple.
Advocates have recognized the harm
these laws would have on women and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.011 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1419
February 25, 2019
have filed suits to block their imple-
mentation. Several lower courts have
ruled these restrictions unconstitu-
tional, and the cases are moving stead-
ily through the courts of appeals en
route to the Supreme Court.
The Fifth Circuit, for example, will
hear an appeal of a lower court’s deci-
sion to block Mississippi’s 15-week
abortion ban, as well as an appeal from
Texas to allow its ban on D&E proce-
dures to go into effect.
The Seventh Circuit upheld a lower
court ruling striking down parts of In-
diana’s mandatory ultrasound and
waiting period law. The Indiana attor-
ney general has requested the Supreme
Court to review this case.
The Supreme Court temporarily
stopped Louisiana’s so-called admit-
ting privileges law from taking effect
on a 5-to-4 vote. This is the law I
talked about before. This law would re-
sult in one abortion provider in a State
of 4.7 million people.
The Fifth Circuit will now hear an
appeal on the merits of the law, which
is virtually identical to a Texas law
the Supreme Court struck down in
2016—that was only a few short years
ago—in the landmark Whole Women’s
Health v. Hellerstedt decision.
The stakes in these court battles and
the more than 20 other abortion-re-
lated cases making their way through
the Federal court are incredibly high.
Any one of them would provide the
opening for the U.S. Supreme Court to
finally fulfill the rightwing goal of
overturning Roe v. Wade.
It is with this central goal in mind
that Donald Trump, Majority Leader
MCCONNELL, and complicit Republicans
of Congress have been working to pack
our Federal courts with ideologically
driven judges groomed and handpicked
by ultraconservative organizations like
the Federalist Society and the Herit-
age Foundation.
Donald Trump has already confirmed
85 judges, including 30 to circuit courts
and 2 to the U.S. Supreme Court. These
judges comprise one-tenth of the Fed-
eral judiciary, with many more to
come.
In fact, a few weeks ago, the Senate
Judiciary Committee voted 42—42—ju-
dicial nominees out of committee in
one markup. Those 42 comprise an ad-
ditional 5 percent of the Federal judici-
ary.
Less than 2 weeks ago, Justice
Kavanaugh issued a strong dissent in
the earlier mentioned Supreme Court’s
5-to-4 decision to block Louisiana’s
anti-choice law from taking effect.
Using tortured reasoning, Justice
Kavanaugh essentially argued that the
Supreme Court should disregard its
own precedent from only 2 years ago—
that is the Whole Women’s case I re-
ferred to—to allow the Louisiana law
to take effect. His dissent signaled his
strong antipathy to a woman’s right to
choose, just as his dissent in Garza v.
Hargan did when he was on the DC Cir-
cuit. His dissent as a Justice this time
demonstrated the emptiness of his
promises to uphold Supreme Court
precedent during his confirmation
hearing.
Justice Kavanaugh’s promises then
to follow precedent is like that of other
Federalist Society-picked Trump nomi-
nees now packing our courts, offering
little reassurance that nominees in
fact will set aside their strongly held
ideological views to be objective and
fair as judges.
Another case likely to make its way
through Federal courts in the months
and years ahead is a challenge to the
Trump administration’s new gag rule.
This rule prohibits doctors and other
clinicians participating in title X fam-
ily planning programs from referring
patients for, or even speaking about,
abortions, even if their patients re-
quest such information.
Nearly 20,000 Hawaii residents receive
reproductive healthcare through title
X. That is roughly the population of
the city of Kapolei on Oahu. This at-
tack on title X-funded agencies like
Planned Parenthood is an end-run
around Congress after Republicans
have tried and failed dozens of times to
end funding for Planned Parenthood.
Planned Parenthood provides
healthcare for millions—millions—of
low-income women, men, and young
people under title X. Why then do Re-
publicans persist in trying to cut fund-
ing for Planned Parenthood?
The constitutional rights of millions
of women across the country are under
serious and sustained attack, but even
in these not normal times, I do see
some hope. As State after State passes
laws to limit access for a woman’s
right to choose, communities like Ha-
waii’s are coming together to protect
such access.
Last week, I joined activists and staff
from Planned Parenthood of the Great
Northwest and the Hawaiian Islands as
they opened their new medical center
and administrative hub in downtown
Honolulu. I was particularly energized
to see how many young people, women
and men, were there and engaged in the
fight to protect our right to choice.
I have learned over the years that
battles we fought so hard to win never
stay won. It is up to all of us to stay
engaged and keep fighting for our con-
stitutionally protected rights.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I want
to be very clear about the matter that
is before the U.S. Senate today. We are
not here to debate abortion. That is
not what this bill is about that Senator
SASSE has introduced. We are here to
decide whether it should be legal in the
United States of America to kill or ne-
glect an infant who has been born alive
after a botched abortion.
This was made very real for me just
minutes ago. In fact, Melissa Odom is
standing just off the floor of the U.S.
Senate, just outside here probably 50
feet from where I am standing. She sur-
vived a botched saline-infused abortion
in 1977. She was left to die, literally
put in the medical waste heap, but
thanks to the grace of God and a nurse
who saw Melissa, they were able to re-
vive her, and she is a beautiful 41-year-
old mom with two children, one being
Olivia who was born in the same hos-
pital where the botched abortion took
place. She is from Kansas City, married
to Ryan.
We are here to vote on the Born-
Alive Abortion Survivors Protection
Act. By now, we have all heard the dis-
turbing defense of infanticide offered
by the disgraced Governor Northam of
Virginia. These babies’ only crime was
to survive the abortionists’ attempts
to poison, starve, or tear them apart
limb from limb while in utero.
What this bill is about is when the
abortionist wants to ‘‘finish the job’’ as
the baby lies helpless on the table of an
abortion clinic. Currently, children
born alive who survive an abortion at-
tempt are recognized as persons under
the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act
of 2002, but that law is merely defini-
tional because not one person to date
has been charged or convicted under it.
There is no nationwide Federal law
criminalizing the actions of killers,
like Dr. Kermit Gosnell, who kill or
deny care to babies who survive abor-
tions. Current Federal murder statutes
have limited jurisdiction, and the
States have a patchwork of different
laws for born-alive infants.
The bill we are voting on today
would give Federal enforcement teeth
nationwide to the 2002 Born-Alive law,
so that whether an infant is born alive
in Montana or in Massachusetts,
whether in a hospital or an abortion
clinic, they would be guaranteed the
same protection and level of care. Is
that asking too much?
By contrast, consider that Federal
law provides criminal penalties of
thousands of dollars in fines and even
imprisonment if you ‘‘harass, harm,
pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap,
capture, or collect’’ any baby marine
turtle, baby bald eagle, or any other
baby of an endangered species.
It is absolutely absurd that we are
having to decide whether we give
human babies the level of protection
under Federal law that we give to ani-
mals. This is truly an absurd moment
on the floor of the U.S. Senate. Have
we become so numb as a nation that we
cannot realize we are talking about a
baby?
Cindy and I became grandparents for
the first time on January 23, little
Emma Rae Daines, born in Denver. She
is now a living, breathing member of
the human family. That is what we are
talking about here, a living, breathing
member of the human family. Is it the
position of the Democratic Party that
a border wall is immoral but not infan-
ticide?
The phenomenon of infants surviving
attempted abortions is very real. These
infants are not just statistics. Their
lives matter, and their stories deserve
to be told, just like the story of Me-
lissa Odom. That is why I am proud of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.014 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1420 February 25, 2019
and grateful to my Senate colleague
BEN SASSE, who has introduced the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act.
Infanticide is not and should not be a
partisan issue. It is an issue in which
there should be no middle ground or
compromise. A ‘‘yes’’ vote today is to
uphold the bare minimum of any civ-
ilized society. A ‘‘no’’ vote is to deny
protection from barbaric violence to
the most vulnerable among us, an inno-
cent, little baby.
You can either stand with Governor
Northam for infanticide or you can
protect the most vulnerable among us.
I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I first
thank my colleague from Montana for
his powerful message. I can assure him
that I believe strongly in the same ap-
proach as he does with regard to life.
I rise to discuss an issue of vital im-
portance to our society, and that is the
intrinsic value of human life. Very
shortly, every Senator will have an op-
portunity to stand up for human dig-
nity and condemn infanticide when we
vote on the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act. This should not
be a difficult vote for any of us.
I believe in the value of every inno-
cent human life, beginning at the mo-
ment of conception to natural death.
Life is a gift from God that should be
respected and treated with dignity
from the very beginning to the very
end.
I have worked to enact pro-life poli-
cies throughout my time in public
service based upon this principle. While
working as Governor, I signed legisla-
tion to ban abortions in South Dakota,
except when necessary to save a moth-
er’s life.
‘‘Humanae Vitae,’’ written by Pope
Paul IV and later expanded upon in
‘‘Evangelium Vitae,’’ written by Saint
Pope John Paul II the Great, teaches
that there can be no true democracy
without a recognition of the dignity of
every person. It goes on to teach that
respect and dignity must be given to
each human life for true peace and
freedom to exist.
We must demand respect for the
rights of all. This includes those in the
womb, as well as mothers carrying a
child who are facing difficult chal-
lenges. Both deserve our utmost com-
passion and care. While this should be
common sense to everyone, we recog-
nize that in this country there are indi-
viduals who are pro-life and individuals
who are pro-choice.
While I and millions of other pro-life
Americans continue to work to end all
abortions and support measures that
strengthen the dignity of life, recent
actions at the State level have been
deeply troubling. Pro-choice individ-
uals are actually now supporting meas-
ures that will allow doctors to commit
infanticide even after a baby has been
born alive. For example, last month,
the State of New York repealed section
4164 of the State’s public health law
which provided protections for an in-
fant born alive after a failed abortion.
Subsequently, in Virginia, legislation
has been introduced that would legalize
abortion up to term and even after the
birth has begun. In Rhode Island, the
Governor has vowed to sign legislation
legalizing abortion even after the child
is viable.
These examples of abortion extre-
mism at its worst—radical, abhorrent
acts of infanticide—should horrify all
of us. While I am troubled by the
thought of any baby being killed at
any stage, at a bare minimum every
one of us should be able to agree that
infanticide—or the killing of a baby
after it has been born alive—is unac-
ceptable. This is a separate issue from
abortion, which is abhorrent in itself.
In the history of the world, the true
test of a society is how well we treat
the most vulnerable among us. That is
why we must pass this legislation, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, of which I am an original co-
sponsor, and I would like to thank Sen-
ator SASSE for bringing this legislation
forward.
The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act simply protects
newborns who survive abortions by re-
quiring appropriate care and admission
to a hospital. When a failed abortion
results in the live birth of an infant,
our legislation makes clear that
healthcare providers must exercise the
same degree of professional skill to
protect the newborn child as would be
offered to any other child born alive at
the same gestational age. A baby who
survives an abortion deserves the same
rights under the law as any other new-
born baby and should receive proper
medical care, not to be left to die or be
killed.
It is also worth mentioning that
President Trump stood up for life dur-
ing the State of the Union Address ear-
lier this month, calling on Congress to
pass legislation to prohibit late-term
abortions of children who feel pain in
the mother’s womb. President Trump
urged:
Let us work together to build a culture
that cherishes innocent life. And let us reaf-
firm a fundamental truth: All children—born
and unborn—are made in the holy image of
God.
I couldn’t agree more. All life is sa-
cred. We must seek to protect and save
lives whenever possible, however pos-
sible. I urge my colleagues to support
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois is recognized.
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to address the
floor for 5 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President,
imagine the joy, the emotion, and the
anticipation that comes with being in
the third trimester of your pregnancy.
Imagine choosing the crib and the mo-
biles that will hang above it. Imagine
telling your toddler that he was get-
ting a little sister to play with. Then,
imagine the heartbreak of going to the
doctor one day and learning that there
is no chance your baby will survive,
that there is no hope your baby girl
will ever speak her first word or take
her first step, or that delivering her
would put your own life at risk, leaving
your firstborn to grow up without a
mother. These are the types of sce-
narios that lead to the heart-wrenching
decision to terminate a pregnancy
later on.
As the mom of two little girls—one,
age 4, and one, 10 months old—I can’t
begin to fathom that kind of pain. Yet
today some on the other side of the
aisle are trying to use those parents’
suffering for political advantage, mak-
ing worst-case scenarios like these all
the more difficult by pushing a bill
aimed to criminalize reproductive care
no matter the cost.
If it becomes law, this bill would
force doctors to perform ineffective,
invasive procedures on fetuses born
with fatal abnormalities, even if it is
against the best interests of the child,
even if it goes against recommended
standards of care and they know that it
wouldn’t extend or improve the baby’s
life, and even if it would prolong the
suffering of the families, forcing
women to endure added lasting trauma,
making one of the worst moments of
their lives somehow even more painful.
If physicians refuse, they would be pun-
ished and could be sentenced up to 5
years in prison.
We have seen this kind of political
stunt before. We know the partisan ex-
tremist playbook it comes out of—one
based not in fact but in fiction, steeped
in ignorance and misogyny. The goal
here is obvious: to bully doctors out of
giving reproductive care, to scare them
out of business—one potential lawsuit
or jail sentence at a time—making it
even harder for women to get the care
they need when they need it most, as
the number of physicians available
shrinks.
This is just the latest step in the far
right’s long march to strip away wom-
en’s rights—a march whose pace has
now quickened under our current
President, a man who once argued that
women should be punished for taking
up their right to choose, who has taken
pride in trying to put the government
between women and their doctors, and
who just 72 hours ago issued a gag rule
that could gut family planning clinics.
I have said this a thousand times be-
fore, and I will keep saying it until I go
hoarse: A woman’s medical decisions
should be between her and her physi-
cian and her family and not dictated by
some politician in Washington, DC.
When lives are on the line, the folks
with MDs are the ones who should be
deciding what care is appropriate, not
those with partisan agendas.
Mothers and doctors know that every
pregnancy is different—both of mine
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.016 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1421
February 25, 2019
certainly were—and physicians are
trained with exactly this in mind.
It is offensive and just plain ignorant
for my colleagues to claim they know
better than a doctor or an expectant
mom. It shows an alarming disrespect
for a woman’s moral compass and her
ability to make sound decisions.
I can’t begin to conceive of the pain
of the mom-to-be who learns that the
baby she already loves isn’t viable and
that the child whose name she has al-
ready chosen and whose life she has al-
ready imagined will never open their
eyes. All this bill would do is to sharp-
en that family’s suffering. All it would
do is to make it harder for the next
woman to get the care that could save
her life. How dare we think of passing
legislation like that. How dare we put
extremist politics over empathy, over
science, and over women’s health and
families’ pain.
I strongly urge my colleagues to vote
against S. 311—a bill that is as heart-
less as it is dangerous.
Thank you.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma is recognized.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak on the
floor for up to 5 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, it
has been interesting to hear the debate
today about how heartless it would be
to protect the life of a child. The de-
bate from the other side has come out
fast and furious, saying that S. 311 is
about a child who is not viable and
that somehow we are going to put a
mom through more torment with a
child that is not viable.
The plain text of this bill could not
be clearer. This is not about abortion.
This is about a child who has been born
alive and who is a viable child.
Here is the interesting conversation.
Many people in this country argue
about abortion—rightfully so. We are
talking about the life of a child. This,
in particular, though, has a clear argu-
ment. What if an abortion is botched,
and instead of the child being killed in
the womb, they are actually delivered?
Now a child is on the table who is cry-
ing, with pink skin, 10 fingers and toes
wiggling, and is reaching out. What
happens now? That is the question with
this bill.
Interestingly enough, it is not the
first time it has come before the Sen-
ate. In 2002, this same issue came be-
fore the Senate. The Senate, the House,
and the President all agreed that if an
abortion was botched and the child was
delivered, that child is a child. By defi-
nition, that is a child. In 2002, what
that bill did not do is define what hap-
pens next if the life of that child is
then taken after they are born.
This wouldn’t be an issue because it
is clearly defined in law except for the
fact that a few weeks ago, the Gov-
ernor of Virginia made a public state-
ment saying that we need to have a law
to say that we could deliver a child,
make it comfortable, and then decide
what to do with that baby. Suddenly,
this becomes a national conversation.
We thought this was a resolved issue
in 2002, but it is not. There is still de-
bate from the other side saying: De-
liver the child and then decide what to
do with the life of that child.
This is not just an issue that has no
consequence as well. After that bill was
passed in 2002, the CDC started ana-
lyzing birth certificates to determine if
this happens and how often it happens.
It doesn’t happen often, but in a few
number of States where the CDC gath-
ered information from, it determined
there were 143 babies who were born
alive after an attempted abortion and
who then died with no record of how it
happened.
Just in 5 months in 2017, the State of
Arizona reported that 10 babies were
born alive after an attempted abortion.
This doesn’t happen often, but it does
happen, and the question is, Who are
we as a nation and what are we going
to do with a child who is in front of us
who is alive?
Medical professionals are called to do
no harm—the Hippocratic Oath. It is
interesting to see medical professionals
provide care to every person every-
where they go. If there is a car acci-
dent, it doesn’t matter if it is their pa-
tient. They pull over and help. Inter-
estingly enough, at the State of the
Union Address, just a couple of weeks
ago, we had a staff member in the back
who passed out, and Members of Con-
gress who are also physicians, who
were in their seats, jumped out of their
seats to go provide care because that is
what physicians do. But in the case of
a botched abortion, the child is deliv-
ered and then everyone who is a med-
ical professional just steps back and
watches the child die and doesn’t pro-
vide care. It is the reverse of the Hippo-
cratic Oath. We need to resolve this in
our law.
If I can even make a comparison. We
as people, and even soldiers in the
field, honor life. Soldiers who were
trained to take life still are also
trained to honor life.
Article 12 of the Geneva Convention,
which we support, says this: ‘‘Members
of the armed forces and other persons
. . . who were wounded, sick . . . shall
be respected and protected in all cir-
cumstances.’’ Literally, if you are in
the fight of your life on the field, as
our Armed Forces are, and you run
across a wounded individual in that
fight from the other side, we give care
to that person, even though they are
our enemy on the battlefield. But in an
abortion clinic, that child is not given
the same care that we are demanded to
give on the battlefield.
This is a fascinating dialogue that I
have had with a lot of my colleagues.
For a lot of my colleagues who are pro-
abortion and who don’t see that as a
life, I will often ask this simple ques-
tion: When is a life a life? What is your
redline? I think that is a fair conversa-
tion.
For myself, it is conception. When
that child is conceived and they are de-
veloping, they have unique DNA. That
is a different person. For others, they
will say it is when the child is viable.
For others, they will say when the
child is born.
I just ask a simple question. When
the child is born, is that a child? Is
your redline birth? This bill affirms
that when a child is born, we should at
least acknowledge that that is a per-
son.
I am a dad who has cut the umbilical
cord of my own daughter before. I
would be terrified to say that the child
was not a child until I, as the dad, cut
the cord—that I could take that life at
any moment before that. That is not
who we are as Americans.
Let’s pass this. Let’s protect living
children.
With that, I yield the floor.
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I
rise in strong opposition to tonight’s
vote to advance S. 311. This legislation
would reduce families’ access to repro-
ductive healthcare, interfere in per-
sonal medical decisions that should be
left between families and doctors, and
criminalize doctors and health profes-
sionals.
Tonight’s vote is part of a broader
strategy by this administration and
some in Congress to take away wom-
en’s access to reproductive healthcare,
including the constitutional right to
an abortion affirmed in Roe v. Wade.
For instance, the administration has
already installed two Supreme Court
Justices who threaten Roe v. Wade, re-
peatedly tried to de-fund Planned Par-
enthood and cut off family planning
grants, and given employers the green
light to take away birth control cov-
erage from their employees. In the last
Congress alone there were 14 anti-wom-
en’s health votes and 34 anti-women’s
health bills introduced.
Reproductive health choices are
highly personal and deeply sensitive,
and they should be left between fami-
lies and their doctor. S. 311 would effec-
tively overrule these personal decisions
by imposing arbitrary standards—
based on political ideology, not med-
ical appropriateness—on health profes-
sionals.
This bill would effectively crim-
inalize doctors and healthcare clini-
cians for providing the best plan of
care to their patients. It would impose
civil and criminal penalties including
up to 5 years in prison onto providers if
they don’t comply with the bill’s man-
dates. These mandates could scare
medical professionals away from help-
ing women and families obtain repro-
ductive care, including an abortion,
further reducing families’ access to
care.
More than 17 of the Nation’s leading
medical, public health, and civil rights
organizations oppose this bill. The
American College of Nurse-Midwives,
the American College of Obstetricians
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.018 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1422 February 25, 2019
and Gynecologists, and the American
Public Health Association state that
the bill ‘‘. . . injects politicians into
the patient-provider relationship, dis-
regarding providers’ training and clin-
ical judgement and undermining their
ability to determine the best course of
action with their patients.’’ The Amer-
ican Civil Liberties Union states that
the bill ‘‘. . . shows a callous disregard
for patients in need of compassionate,
evidence-based care when they face dif-
ficult decisions.’’
The majority of Americans want
more access to reproductive
healthcare, not less. More than 7 in 10
Americans do not want women to lose
access to safe, legal abortion. In 1991, a
majority of voters in the State of
Washington passed the Washington
Abortion Rights Initiative, declaring
that a woman has a right to an abor-
tion.
S. 311 is another misguided attempt
to reduce women and families’ access
to reproductive healthcare. I strongly
oppose S. 311 and urge my colleagues to
vote no.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for less
than 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, over the
course of this afternoon, we have heard
a whole bunch of things about what is
supposedly in this bill. I know that a
lot of people who are opposed to this
bill, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act, sincerely believe the
talking points that they read from
their staffs, but, humbly, we have
heard speech after speech after speech
about things that have absolutely
nothing to do with what is actually in
this bill.
So as you get ready to cast this vote,
I urge my colleagues to picture a baby
who has already been born, who is out-
side the womb, and who is gasping for
air. That is the only thing that today’s
vote is actually about. We are talking
about babies who have already been
born. Nothing in this bill touches abor-
tion access.
Thank you.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 17, S. 311, a
bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to
prohibit a health care practitioner from fail-
ing to exercise the proper degree of care in
the case of a child who survives an abortion
or attempted abortion.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Mike
Crapo, Pat Roberts, John Cornyn,
Johnny Isakson, James M. Inhofe,
Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Lindsey
Graham, Ben Sasse, Roy Blunt, John
Thune, John Boozman, John Barrasso,
Joni Ernst, James E. Risch.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
calls have been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to S. 311, a bill to amend title
18, United States Code, to prohibit a
health care practitioner from failing to
exercise the proper degree of care in
the case of a child who survives an
abortion or attempted abortion, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER), the
Senator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI),
and the Senator from South Carolina
(Mr. SCOTT).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 27 Leg.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Cramer Murkowski Scott (SC)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. As a re-
minder, expressions of approval or dis-
approval are not in order.
On this vote, the yeas are 53, the
nays are 44.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn not having voted in the
affirmative, the motion is rejected.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Mike
Crapo, Johnny Isakson, John Cornyn,
Pat Roberts, James M. Inhofe, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Lindsey Gra-
ham, Roy Blunt, John Thune, John
Boozman, John Barrasso, James E.
Risch, Richard Burr, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) and
the Senator from Alaska (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 46, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 28 Leg.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—46
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Cramer Murkowski Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 46.
The motion is agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.006 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1423
February 25, 2019
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Eric D. Miller,
of Washington, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 311
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I am
on the floor to talk about a vote that
simply should not have taken place
this evening. It was a vote on yet an-
other attack from our Republican col-
leagues on women’s health and their
right to access safe, legal abortions—
this time in the form of an anti-doctor,
anti-woman, anti-family piece of legis-
lation that medical experts strongly
oppose. Republicans have spread a lot
of misinformation about this bill, so
let’s be clear what it is not about and
what it is actually about.
This bill is not about protecting in-
fants, as Republicans have claimed, be-
cause that is not up for debate, and it
is already the law. This bill is also not
at all about ensuring that appropriate
medical care is delivered, because it
would make it harder for healthcare
providers to provide high-quality med-
ical care that their patients need and
deserve.
The leading nonpartisan organization
of OB/GYNs in our country has said
this bill should never become law. It
calls it ‘‘gross legislative interference
into the practice of medicine’’ and
‘‘part of a larger attempt to deny
women access to safe, legal, evidence-
based abortion care.’’ In fact, 17 top
health and medical organizations wrote
to Congress to insist that Democrats
and Republicans vote this bill down.
Since this bill is not about infants or
appropriate medical care, I am sure
many people are wondering what ex-
actly it is about. What would this bill
really mean for women and families
and healthcare providers?
If you are a woman, this bill would
mean, if you were one of the very, very
few women who needed an abortion
late in your pregnancy, you could be
legally required to accept inappro-
priate, medically unnecessary care—
care that may directly conflict with
your wishes at a deeply personal, often
incredibly painful moment in your
life—because politicians in Washington
decided their beliefs mattered more
than yours.
If you are a medical provider, this
bill would supersede your years of med-
ical training and your oath to deliver
the best possible medical treatment to
your patients. It would apply a one-
size-fits-all set of requirements that
does not reflect the reality that every
pregnancy is different, and it would
subject you to criminal penalties if you
were to choose to let medical stand-
ards, not politics, drive the care you
offer to your patients.
For families who struggle with the
painful reality that the children they
had hoped for could not survive, as is
tragically the case in many of the
cases we are discussing, this legislation
would take precedence over families’
wishes as they grieve.
This bill is government interference
in women’s healthcare, in families’
lives, and in medicine on steroids. As I
said, it is anti-doctor, anti-woman, and
anti-family. It has no place in becom-
ing law. Its proponents claim it would
make something illegal that is already
illegal. So why are we debating this
legislation that would take women
backward when there are so many ways
we should be advancing medicine, im-
proving women’s healthcare, and sup-
porting families? As far as I can tell, it
is because this bill is about something
that Republicans care about more than
almost any other priority; that, unfor-
tunately, is the rolling back of wom-
en’s constitutionally protected rights
and trying to take us back in time be-
fore the Roe v. Wade decision.
Since day No. 1 of the Trump-Pence
administration, this party has pulled
every possible stop to appeal to its ex-
treme anti-abortion base. Just last
week, the Trump-Pence administration
put forward a rule that would prevent
healthcare providers at clinics that are
funded through the title X family plan-
ning program from so much as inform-
ing patients about where to get an
abortion even if that patient directly
asks them for advice. This rule means
trusted medical providers across the
country may not be able to serve
women and men who rely on them for
contraception, cancer screenings, and
more—all because Republicans are de-
termined to make abortion impossible
in the United States. That is just one
of many examples.
To recap, this bill is completely un-
necessary. It is harmful to women and
families, and it would criminalize doc-
tors. It is intended to do nothing ex-
cept to help Republicans advance their
goal of denying women their constitu-
tionally protected rights. I am against
it in the strongest terms. Everybody
who cares about women, families, and
doctors and about upholding the Con-
stitution should be too, so I am glad
the Senate voted tonight to stop this
anti-doctor, anti-woman, anti-family
bill from going a single step further.
The next time Republicans want to
have a conversation about protecting
infants and children, I am happy to
talk about the babies and children who
have been separated from their parents
at the border or about improving ac-
cess to early childhood education or
about making sure coverage for mater-
nal healthcare and preexisting condi-
tions is not taken away. These are
problems that do exist and that do
need to be solved, and we are just as
ready and willing to work on those as
we are to stand up and say ‘‘absolutely
not’’ to this harmful bill.
NOMINATION OF ERIC D. MILLER
Mr. President, in the very near fu-
ture, my Senate colleagues will be
asked to take an unprecedented vote—
a vote that never should have been
scheduled here in the first place.
Republican leaders are demanding
that we move ahead and vote on Presi-
dent Trump’s nominee to serve on the
Ninth Circuit Court despite the fact
that I and my colleague Senator CANT-
WELL have not returned our blue slips
on behalf of our constituents in Wash-
ington State and despite the fact that
the hearing for the nominee was a total
sham. This is wrong, and it is a dan-
gerous road for the Senate to go down.
Not only did Republicans schedule this
nominee’s confirmation hearing during
a recess period when just two Sen-
ators—both Republicans—were able to
attend, but the hearing included less
than 5 minutes of questioning—less
questioning for a lifetime appointment
than most students face for a book re-
port in school.
Confirming this Ninth Circuit Court
nominee without the consent or true
input of both home State Senators and
after a sham hearing would be a dan-
gerous first for this Senate.
This is not a partisan issue. This is a
question of the Senate’s ability and
commitment to properly review nomi-
nees. Yet, here we are on the Senate
floor, barreling toward a vote to con-
firm a flawed nominee, who came to us
following a flawed nomination proc-
ess—all because a handful of my Re-
publican colleagues will apparently
stop at nothing to jam President
Trump’s extreme conservatives onto
our courts, even if that means tram-
pling all over precedent, all over proc-
ess, or any semblance of our institu-
tional norms.
Maybe Republican leaders are hoping
most Americans aren’t paying atten-
tion to what is happening right now in
the Senate—that somehow tossing out
Senate norms in order to move our
country’s courts to the far right will go
unnoticed.
Well, I am standing here right now to
make sure everyone knows because I,
for one, fear the short- and long-term
consequences of letting any President
steamroll the Senate on something as
critical as our judicial nominees—the
very men and women who are tasked
with interpreting our Nation’s laws and
making sure they serve justice for all
Americans.
I fear the consequences of aban-
doning the blue-slip process and, in-
stead, bending to the will of a Presi-
dent who has demonstrated time and
again his ignorance and disdain for the
Constitution and the rule of law.
At a time when we have a President
whose policies keep testing the limits
of law—from a ban on Muslims enter-
ing the United States to a family sepa-
ration policy at our southern border—
it is very important, more than ever,
that we have well-qualified, consensus
judges on the bench.
Let’s be very clear. Trump cannot
steamroll the Senate by himself. But in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.026 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1424 February 25, 2019
the Republican leadership, he has
found Members willing to throw out
every rule, every tradition, every safe-
guard in the book to give him what he
wants.
So this vote, which is happening
soon, and this new precedent of turning
a blind eye to the blue slip should stop
every one of my colleagues—Repub-
licans and Democrats—in their tracks
because, today, the two home Senators
still holding their blue slips are my
colleague Senator CANTWELL and me,
but in the future, it could be any Mem-
ber of this body.
I am doing this for very good rea-
sons—reasons very much in line with
why the blue-slip process exists in the
first place. I am doing this because I
don’t believe Mr. Miller has received
the necessary scrutiny and vetting to
serve on the bench—a lifetime appoint-
ment. I believe the people I represent
would not want him there, plain and
simple.
I want to briefly go into one area
that causes particular and very serious
concern, and that is what I have heard
from my constituents about Mr. Mil-
ler’s misunderstanding of Tribal sov-
ereignty and his ability to be impartial
and fair-minded when hearing cases in-
volving Tribal rights.
As one Tribal leader from my home
State put it, Mr. Miller has built a ca-
reer out of mounting challenges
against Tribes, including their sov-
ereignty, their lands, their religious
freedom, and even the core attributes
of Federal recognition.
I want to be very clear because I do
not believe that it is wise for Senators
to support or oppose nominees only be-
cause of their past clients. Our legal
system requires talented lawyers on
both sides of every case, and sometimes
lawyers represent clients who are po-
litically unpopular.
But making a career decision to be
one of the top attorneys, in case after
case, attacking Tribal sovereignty—
that is more than a choice of a client.
That is a choice about values, and it is
something my colleagues should con-
sider.
There are more than 400 federally
recognized Tribes in the Western
United States, including Alaska. Every
single one could find themselves before
the Ninth Circuit and before a judge
who spent years fighting for an ex-
treme position directly opposed to
their own sovereignty and whose advo-
cacy repeatedly attempted to under-
mine the rights of Tribal nations ev-
erywhere. Particularly at a time when
the Supreme Court may demolish im-
portant protections for subsistence
rights, a circuit nominee opposed to
Tribal sovereignty should not be con-
firmed.
This is a serious matter worthy of
true examination. Yet Mr. Miller’s
nomination process was inadequate
from the start.
Today it is Washington State fami-
lies who are getting cut out from this
important process. Tomorrow, it can be
the concerns of any of your constitu-
ents and any of your home States that
get tossed aside for a President’s cru-
sade to reshape our courts and satisfy a
political base—and Senate leaders un-
willing to stand up for our norms and
our precedents and our constitutional
duty.
I urge my colleagues to truly think
about what moving ahead with this
nomination means and to ask them-
selves: Are we still able to work to-
gether in a bipartisan way and find
common ground for the good of the
country and the people we serve? Can
we still engage in a bipartisan process
to find consensus candidates to serve
on our courts? Or will our work here in
the U.S. Senate be reduced to partisan
extremes and political gamesmanship?
Will Republicans accept simply being
a rubberstamp for their leader in the
White House, and will my colleagues be
complicit in allowing our courts to be
taken over by ideology alone, aban-
doning pragmatism and a commitment
to justice for all?
That is the choice every Senator will
make with this vote, and I sincerely
hope a choice for which every Senator
will be held accountable.
To vote yes will be a vote in favor of
further eroding the Senate’s commit-
ment to examining nominees for life-
time appointments and its ability to
serve as a check on the Executive. To
vote yes is to toss away each Senator’s
ability to provide guidance on judicial
nominees for their State and the fami-
lies they represent.
To vote no will be a vote to stand up
for the Senate’s role in our democracy
and to stand up for a process that helps
the Senate ensure qualified judges who
play such a critically important role in
our democracy. To me, the choice is
pretty clear.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
S. 311
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to join many of my colleagues in
raising our voices on behalf of some of
the most vulnerable members of our so-
ciety.
Recently, a very disturbing and re-
vealing discussion has been taking
place in our country that raises serious
questions about how much value and
worth we ascribe to babies in the
womb, especially those who are born
despite an attempted abortion proce-
dure.
Before I go any further, let me say
this clearly and unequivocally: If we as
a nation are to hold any claim to a
moral character that deserves to be ad-
mired and emulated, then we must be
willing to say that the lives of newborn
children have inherent value and are
worthy of protection. There is simply
no way to credibly claim otherwise.
Whether it be legislation introduced
or enacted by State legislatures or
comments made by public officials,
such as the Governor of Virginia, our
country has begun to entertain the
idea that the rights and privileges new-
born babies possess is an open-ended
question.
This is alarming, and the U.S. Senate
should go on the record in defense of
their right to live instead of being cal-
lously discarded or worse—inten-
tionally killed in the name of repro-
ductive freedom. There is no middle
ground here.
It is concerning to me that in some
corners of this country, and even with-
in this Congress, there is an utter fail-
ure to recognize and affirm the right to
life, especially after an infant has al-
ready been born.
Throughout my time in elected of-
fice, I have found that giving those who
disagree with me on any given issue
the benefit of the doubt as it relates to
their motivations has allowed me to
consistently find commonality and
reach compromise, even with incred-
ibly unlikely allies and partners. But
in this instance, there can be no mis-
take or ambiguity. The common
ground that we all must occupy should
be a shared commitment to uphold the
basic, fundamental right to protect the
life of every child, no matter the cir-
cumstances of his or her birth, which
brings me to the legislation before the
Senate today.
I am a cosponsor of the Born-Alive
Abortion Survivors Protection Act,
and I am grateful to each of my col-
leagues who supported the bill tonight.
This legislation would create criminal
penalties for doctors who allow infants
to die rather than provide medical care
after an attempted abortion.
It would also require that born-alive
abortion survivors be transported to a
hospital for care and treatment rather
than being left to languish on the
counter of an abortion clinic or—as one
former nurse and pro-life activist has
shockingly recounted—be discarded
along with the biohazard materials.
Even in situations where comfort
care is rendered to these little ones,
that sometimes amounts to nothing
more than keeping a baby warm until
it passes away alone. No child should
suffer this way.
Under this bill, abortionists who defy
these mandates to render care to born-
alive survivors would face the justice
that they are due instead of being ig-
nored or permitted to continue com-
mitting infanticide.
It is time for our country to demand
that the victims of this abhorrent, in-
humane treatment be afforded their
rights and the perpetrators be held ac-
countable.
Speaking with one clear voice, we
must say that every human being is
made in the image of God and is there-
fore in possession of dignity and worth
that cannot be displaced or dispos-
sessed. Anything short of this unam-
biguous declaration would be a tremen-
dous disservice to our children and fa-
tally undermine the values of our soci-
ety that we claim to uphold.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.027 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1425
February 25, 2019
While the debate surrounding abor-
tion has engulfed this country for dec-
ades, the goalposts are now being shift-
ed. Reproductive autonomy, we are
now told, must include the ability and
choice to end the life of a baby who
survives an attempted abortion.
As a former medical provider, I be-
lieve that to end a newborn’s life either
by refusing to provide lifesaving care
or actively taking that child’s life—as
in the case of the infamous abortionist
Dr. Kermit Gosnell and others—vio-
lates the oath every medical provider
takes to do no harm.
As a dad and a grandfather, I know
from my own experience just how pre-
cious each life is. My daughters and
grandchildren are treasured gifts that
bring my family and me immeasurable
joy. To think that they or any other
child might be treated with anything
other than the dignity and respect they
are entitled to is tragic, heartbreaking,
and outrageous.
Providing necessary medical atten-
tion to save the lives of infants who
survive an abortion is an imperative
that we as a society must embrace if
we are to be faithful to the promise our
Founders made to the generations of
Americans who would succeed them. In
declaring the self-evident truth that all
men are created equal, surely they in-
tended to extend the same rights and
liberties that their countrymen fought
and died for to newborn babies who sur-
vive abortions.
I am proud to have stood with my
colleagues today in support of this leg-
islation that seeks to protect these
precious, vulnerable lives. We can and
should do this as a reflection of the
country we want to be.
Our abortion laws in the United
States already situate us among some
of the world’s worst human rights
abusers, including North Korea and
China.
Now a national conversation about
whether to provide children who sur-
vive abortions medical attention and
care has ensued. It is my hope and
prayer that the final word in this dis-
cussion will end with a resounding
commitment to protect and preserve
life.
I would like to thank the junior Sen-
ator from Nebraska, Mr. SASSE, for
leading on this critical issue and push-
ing to bring this measure to the floor
today.
I would also like to thank the Presi-
dent for his vocal commitment to de-
fending life and protecting the most
vulnerable among us.
I feel blessed to stand alongside so
many others to raise our voices on be-
half of the voiceless.
While I am disappointed with the re-
sult of today’s vote, I remain com-
mitted to fighting for those who are
unable to fight for themselves and will
continue working to protect and up-
hold the sanctity of life.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
NORTH KOREA
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I want to
offer some thoughts regarding the on-
going negotiations with North Korea
that began with the Singapore summit
between President Trump and Kim
Jong Un and will continue in a few
days when the two leaders meet again
in Vietnam.
I join the chorus of my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle who have ex-
pressed concern regarding the outcome
of the last summit and the subsequent
negotiations. This is not meant as a
criticism of the diplomatic process
itself. Clearly, we are in a much better
place now than 2 years ago, when the
President was promising fire and fury
for the Korean Peninsula, terrifying
our South Korean allies, who stand to
lose millions of their citizens in any
confrontation with North Korea. Fur-
thermore, if the Singapore summit had
resulted in a clear path toward
denuclearization, I would be standing
here right now commending these dip-
lomatic efforts.
The maximum pressure campaign,
significantly enhanced by this body’s
sanctions regime and the United Na-
tions Security Council’s resolutions,
brought North Korea to the negoti-
ating table. It was a golden oppor-
tunity and, unfortunately, it was
squandered by this ill-prepared admin-
istration, which seems more concerned
with photo ops than with the substance
of the negotiation.
The Singapore summit was a loss for
the United States and our alliances and
a great publicity win for North Korea.
The 2005 six-party joint statement con-
tained significantly more commit-
ments from North Korea than the joint
statement of the Singapore summit.
Given President Trump’s bluster and
renouncement of the JCPOA, one
would have thought that he would
leave Singapore with an ironclad com-
mitment and schedule for
denuclearization. Instead, he got less
than in any past negotiation with
North Korea.
Most concerning to me is that with-
out obtaining a single concrete conces-
sion from North Korea, President
Trump undermined our alliance with
the Republic of Korea by character-
izing our joint exercises as provocative
war games. It was a huge propaganda
win for North Korea and a huge loss to
the United States and to the readiness
of the joint force. The regularly sched-
uled exercises are very important to
troop readiness and our regional secu-
rity. While I understand the need to
create diplomatic space for these nego-
tiations to proceed, we must ensure
that we do not sacrifice readiness for
empty promises.
While I am pleased with the agree-
ment on the return of prisoners of war
and missing-in-action personnel re-
mains, which rightfully continue to be
important issues for U.S. families, the
Singapore summit was mostly pomp
and circumstance that did not advance
our national security interests. In fact,
it could be said that we are in a worse
position than we were before the sum-
mit. President Trump undeservedly
transformed Kim Jong Un from a ruth-
less dictator to a world statesman in
short order. He has since used his stat-
ure from the summit to make closed-
door deals with China and Russia that
will be used as leverage against the
United States.
The President also conferred legit-
imacy on a corrupt and morally bank-
rupt dictator who has imprisoned hun-
dreds of thousands of men, women, and
children in political camps under bru-
tal conditions and has committed hor-
rendous crimes against his neighbors
and own people. Human rights did not
play a prominent role at the summit,
and the joint declaration does not in-
clude one single reference. If we want
to continue to serve as a beacon for
human rights, this issue will have to be
on the agenda for these negotiations.
There are a number of U.S. sanctions
against North Korea because of its
human rights record, and this body will
not loosen those sanctions until and
unless we see progress on the issue. As
such, I was dismayed that the Presi-
dent in his State of the Union Address
did not call out the North Korean re-
gime’s callous disregard for human
rights.
Since the summit, we have seen just
how problematic the joint declaration
has been as a foundational document
for the negotiations. While Secretary
Pompeo characterized the first meet-
ing with North Korean negotiators at
the summit as ‘‘productive,’’ the North
Koreans criticized Secretary Pompeo’s
gangster-like demand for
denuclearization. The chasm between
the two sides was created by the ambi-
guity of the summit itself and its fail-
ure to create an agreed-upon path for
both parties. We have not seen a sub-
stantial dismantlement of nuclear or
missile sites over the last year, and
independent news reporting reflects
that North Korea continues to develop
its nuclear and missile arsenals despite
the self-imposed ban on testing.
What should we have gotten from the
summit? Since we played our biggest
card and gave Kim Jong Un a meeting
with the President of the United
States, the answer is a lot more than
what we did get. First and foremost, we
should have gotten a joint declaration
that North Korea agrees to complete,
verifiable, and irreversible
denuclearization. If we were not going
to get that commitment, then we
should have at least gotten a specific
commitment similar to the September
19, 2005, joint statement, where North
Korea committed to ‘‘abandoning all
nuclear weapons and existing nuclear
programs and returning at an early
date to the Treaty on the Non-Pro-
liferation of Nuclear Weapons and to
IAEA safeguards.’’ Instead, we got a
vague statement that North Korea will
‘‘work toward complete
denuclearization of the Korean Penin-
sula.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.029 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1426 February 25, 2019
Despite the administration’s protes-
tations to the contrary, it is not at all
clear that North Korea actually agreed
to complete, verifiable, and irreversible
denuclearization, generally referred to
as CVID. I am concerned, as are others,
that the words ‘‘complete
denuclearization’’ were used because
the North Koreans would not agree to
CVID. If that is the case, then, we are
starting in a worse place than we were
during the 2005 talks.
Why do these words matter? They
matter because of the historical con-
text of these negotiations. Without the
word ‘‘verifiable,’’ North Korea has not
agreed to inspections, and, without in-
spections, we cannot be sure that
North Korea will take the steps nec-
essary to denuclearize. The regime does
not have a good track record of living
up to its agreements. Without a verifi-
cation process that includes a robust
inspection and verification regime, we
will never be sure that North Korea is
not reverting to its past tactics and
cheating on its commitments.
Even more alarming to those who fol-
low past negotiations is that the com-
mitment that did come out of the sum-
mit sounds suspiciously like the tack
North Korea has taken in past negotia-
tions—that denuclearization of the pe-
ninsula will require the United States
to remove its nuclear umbrella from its
ally, the Republic of Korea, and remove
its troops from the peninsula. North
Korea has peddled this tit-for-tat
denuclearization narrative for years,
and this administration must ensure
that it does not become the narrative
of the upcoming negotiations. These
competing narratives should have been
reconciled at the summit by the lead-
ers but instead were left for future ne-
gotiations.
The administration now has another
opportunity in Vietnam to establish
some credibility for these negotiations
and demand a set of concrete
deliverables. We should all recognize
that CVID will take years to accom-
plish. Despite President Trump’s pat-
ently false claim that he has solved the
North Korean nuclear threat, that
threat is still very real and very dan-
gerous. There are commitments that
we need from the other side to gauge
whether North Korea is sincere in its
intent to denuclearize. We already
know that the intelligence community
has made the determination that North
Korea does not intend to denuclearize.
Therefore, the concessions we seek
from North Korea need to include a
verification and inspection scheme
that includes a reasonable timeline and
is comprehensive enough to include all
of its weapons of mass destruction pro-
grams and facilities and focuses on en-
gagement instead of punishment. We
should not use inspections as ‘‘aha’’
moments to catch the North Koreans
in intentional or unintentional mis-
takes. Instead, they should be used as
the foundation to develop a comprehen-
sive picture of all of North Korea’s
weapons programs and as the basis for
future negotiations.
What would a successful summit in
Vietnam look like? We need a declara-
tion from North Korea of all of its nu-
clear weapons and programs and facili-
ties. Ideally, it would also include a
catalog of all of its missiles and missile
facilities. This declaration of all of its
sites and programs needs to be pro-
vided to the United States in short
order to allow the International Atom-
ic Energy Agency, or the IAEA, inspec-
tors to start the inspections process,
which will take years.
Second, we need North Korea to
agree to verifiable denuclearization
with IAEA inspections, and that agree-
ment should include a concrete
timeline with a step-by-step process. If
we are going to continue to scope down
our joint exercises for the sake of these
negotiations, then, we need to see con-
crete actions by North Korea in the
next few months. It has been almost a
year since the last summit, and we
have not seen any concrete irreversible
actions taken by North Korea on its
nuclear program that signify an intent
by the regime to give up or signifi-
cantly curtail its programs.
I wanted to speak on this issue today
before the second summit because I am
concerned that the President will fall
prey to North Korean manipulation
and accept an agreement that does not
include significant concessions by the
regime. Kim Jong Un’s ploy is to make
commitments for the future that can
easily be forgotten or to offer up facili-
ties or sites that are obsolete.
For example, if the President gets as-
surances for the dismantling of the
Sohae launch facility and the closure
and inspections of the Yongbyon nu-
clear facility, he may think that North
Korea has moved the needle on
denuclearization, but as the experts
will tell you, the real jewels are other
nuclear sites that are more critical for
the regime’s programs. As recent re-
ports by the Center for Strategic and
International Studies have shown,
there are many missile sites that have
not been declared and that are critical
to the nuclear program. This is why a
full declaration is so critical—so that
we finally have a comprehensive ac-
counting of the nuclear and missile
programs that exist.
In the meantime, the administration
also needs to be vigilant that China
and other countries continue to enforce
sanctions. President Trump’s asser-
tions that the problem is solved will
significantly undercut our ability to
keep the pressure on. We need con-
sistent messaging from the White
House and the rest of the administra-
tion that the Singapore summit was
the first step, and until we see concrete
results, there will be no abeyance of
the sanctions regime. Keeping China in
line on that front will be a significant
challenge, especially given the isola-
tionist bent of this President, who has
managed to alienate the very partners
we need to cooperate on the sanctions
regime.
China does not need to state publicly
that it will stop enforcing sanctions.
Even low-level cross-border trade can
allow the North Korean economy to
hobble along for years, and all it will
take is an indication from Beijing that
sanctions enforcement is no longer a
priority.
Let me be clear. One of the most im-
portant outcomes of this process is also
the preservation of our alliances with
South Korea and Japan. Even if we
were to somehow achieve a CVID deal
with North Korea but lose our special
relationships with these two nations,
we will come out the other side less se-
cure than we are today. While North
Korea poses a significant threat to the
United States, peace on the peninsula
cannot come at the cost of a dimin-
ished U.S. presence in Asia. Our alli-
ances and partners in the region are
the bulwark of our strength in the re-
gion.
Both South Korea and Japan have
significant national security interests
that will be adjudicated during these
negotiations. Neither is at the negoti-
ating table. I am very concerned that
Japan in particular is dismayed that
there has not been any substantive
progress in the negotiations. It is crit-
ical that the administration continue
to raise issues that are critical to
Japan, especially the Japanese citizens
who were abducted by North Korea. It
is up to this administration to ensure
that their interests are voiced and that
their security needs are met. That
means not only addressing North Ko-
rea’s intercontinental ballistic missile
program but also its short- and inter-
mediate-range missiles. It means con-
sulting with our allies before signifi-
cant decisions that affect their secu-
rity are taken, and it means not pub-
licly lamenting about the costs associ-
ated with these historic and strategic
alliances. We cannot simply put a price
tag on our regional security. Losing
these alliances will cost us far more in
the long run and leave us far less se-
cure than we are today.
We also need to be concerned about
the recent deterioration of the rela-
tionship between our two critical al-
lies. Trilateral cooperation is only ef-
fective if South Korea and Japan can
overcome their historical animosities
to present a united front against North
Korea.
I know there is a lot of discussion
today about the possibility of a peace
agreement to end the 65-year-old armi-
stice. I fear that many see a peace
agreement as the precursor for a re-
moval of U.S. forces from the Korean
Peninsula. I am concerned that our
President does not understand the crit-
ical importance of the deployment of
U.S. Forces Korea on the peninsula.
Let me be clear. The withdrawal of
troops from the peninsula would sig-
nificantly undermine our ability to ful-
fill our treaty obligations to South
Korea. It should not be a subject of
these negotiations or any future nego-
tiations with North Korea. The pres-
ence of our troops is the cornerstone of
our military alliance with South
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.030 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1427
February 25, 2019
Korea, and they must remain present
and ready to ‘‘Fight Tonight’’ for the
benefit of the alliance and regional se-
curity.
Looming over all of this is our long-
term strategic competition with China.
I find it telling that China was one of
the first countries to announce the
cancellation of our joint exercises with
the Republic of Korea.
What are China’s ambitions for this
negotiation process? While China is
certainly concerned about the nuclear
arsenal its southern neighbor has
amassed, denuclearization may not be
China’s highest national security con-
cern during these negotiations. In the
long run, China recognizes that its
near-peer competition with the United
States complicates its interests in
these negotiations. China’s highest pri-
ority is likely to ensure that it does
not end up with a U.S.-allied reunified
Korea on its southern border. Another
goal is driving a wedge between the
United States and its allies in order to
promote itself as a regional hegemon.
We all recognize that Russia has
similar ambitions—separate us from
our allies, establish themselves as re-
gional hegemons, and coerce and bully
their smaller neighbors on issues of de-
fense, trade, and economics. We cannot
allow that to happen.
We already see attempts by China to
relax sanctions enforcement. This
trade spat is just one of the wedges
North Korea will be able to leverage
between China and the United States.
We need a coordinated strategy that
keeps our long-term interests in Asia
focused while resolving the North Ko-
rean crisis. To date, we have not seen
any indication that such a strategy ex-
ists.
Peace on the Korean Peninsula has
eluded us for decades. There is an op-
portunity now to force Kim Jong Un’s
hand, through skillful negotiation and
a coordinated sanctions regime, to
take concrete steps toward
denuclearization.
I hope this administration will use
the Vietnam summit to negotiate a
substantive agreement that keeps
America and its allies safe, strong, and
secure.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
S. 311
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I am
here to take the opportunity to join
my colleagues to speak in support of
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act. I thank Senator SASSE for
his continued leadership on this issue.
I supported the bill when Senator
SASSE introduced it last Congress, and
I was glad to see Senator MCCONNELL,
our leader, bring this bill to the floor
for a vote.
I am astonished—astonished—that
we are debating whether it is appro-
priate to leave born children to die.
Today, now, in the year of 2019, how
can this be? Science demonstrates that
human life begins at conception, and
our understanding of neonatal develop-
ment is increasing every day.
I am a member of the Senate Appro-
priations Subcommittee on Labor,
Health and Human Services. The Na-
tional Institutes of Health is one of my
top priorities for funding. At the NIH,
the National Institute of Child Health
and Human Development has advanced
our knowledge of pregnancy and devel-
opment in the womb. Under this Insti-
tute, the Neonatal Research Network
has pioneered research that has led to
techniques that saved the lives of chil-
dren in their earliest stages, when
these children are at their most vulner-
able.
The Congressional Budget Office esti-
mates that more than 10,000 babies are
aborted each year after 20 weeks of
conception, when science—science—
tells us that an unborn child can feel
pain inside the womb. That number
will increase as a result of recent
State-level efforts to end virtually any
restriction on abortion when a child
could viably live outside the womb.
These efforts are extreme and fall far
beyond the mainstream of American
opinion.
This legislation does nothing to limit
prenatal abortion. While we must ad-
dress that issue—the root causes of
abortion and the ways to curb this
heartbreaking trend—that is not the
issue at hand today in this legislation.
The question before us is this: When a
child survives an abortion and is born,
does the U.S. Senate believe the child
can still be eliminated, or should the
baby be protected and given all pos-
sible care to survive? This act requires
healthcare practitioners to ‘‘exercise
the same degree of professional skill,
care, and diligence to preserve the life
and health of a child as a reasonably
diligent and conscientious healthcare
practitioner would render to any other
child born alive at the same gesta-
tional age.’’ Any negligence in this re-
gard is subject to criminal and civil
punishment, which at present does not
exist.
Should anyone think this is some
made-up issue—despite the Virginia
Governor’s shocking comments reveal-
ing an openness to infanticide and New
York’s expansion of abortion well be-
yond the age of viability that makes
born-alive abortion survivors more
likely—we have concrete evidence that
this grotesque act happens. Notorious
abortion provider Kermit Gosnell is
serving life in prison for these very
acts.
Closing our eyes to what is obscene
does not make it any less real. That it
is allegedly ‘‘rare’’ doesn’t make it any
less real or abhorrent. One child pur-
posefully deprived of healthcare and al-
lowed to die is one too many. It is in-
fanticide, which brings us to the crux
of this issue. We need to think care-
fully about the long-term impacts to
the definition of ‘‘healthcare’’ if Con-
gress refuses to act positively on this
measure. Do the guardrails of neonatal
health succumb to the belief that in-
fants don’t really count as one of us?
Our society is not one of the ancient
Romans or the Aztecs. We don’t sac-
rifice our children to please an un-
known god. In the progress of human
history, principles of the enlighten-
ment—also known as the Age of Rea-
son—declared self-evident truths that
all humans are created equal and en-
dowed with the unalienable right to
life. Although undoubtedly we have our
flaws, these enlightenment principles
enshrined in our founding documents
remain true to who we are as a nation
and who we are as human beings. We
recoil when we hear of children who are
harmed in any manner. Yet today we
are faced with a reality where the abil-
ity to terminate an unborn child’s life
when it is viable outside of the womb is
something that is not only tolerated
but is passionately defended by the
left.
That is bad enough, but to see legis-
lation ensuring that the medical care
of born children gets blocked is incom-
prehensible. The immutable march of
progress in human history has met a
roadblock today in the U.S. Senate.
The Age of Reason seems to have es-
caped us.
Tonight, the Senate had an oppor-
tunity to send a message showing who
we are as leaders and as a society as a
whole—one that protects the weak and
the voiceless instead of one that per-
mits their destruction. I regret and I
am saddened that the Senate failed
this fundamental test.
I am eager to do more to protect in-
nocent life, including the unborn, but
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Act
provided us an opportunity to affirm
the most basic need for healthcare for
a vulnerable child who has already
beaten the odds to survive. Let’s hope
we have another opportunity to give
these children the chance at life they
so deserve.
I thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
NOMINATION OF JOHN L. RYDER
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
this week, the Senate may see an ex-
treme example of how the minority can
abuse its rights in a way that provokes
the majority into an excessive use of
its power. I come to the floor to offer
my Democratic colleagues a way to
avoid both mistakes.
Here is the abuse of minority rights:
More than a year ago, President Trump
nominated John Ryder of Memphis to
serve on the board of directors of the
Tennessee Valley Authority based on
the recommendation that Senator Bob
Corker and I made. Finally, this week,
the Senate is likely to vote on Mr.
Ryder’s nomination.
You might say: Well, there must
really be something wrong with Mr.
Ryder.
Well, if there is, then all the people
who are supposed to find out what is
wrong with Mr. Ryder have not found
it out. Senator Corker and I know him
very well as one of Tennessee’s finest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.031 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1428 February 25, 2019
attorneys. Senator BLACKBURN agrees.
After a hearing at which Mr. Ryder an-
swered questions, Republican and
Democratic members of the Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee
unanimously approved his nomination.
No, there is no problem with Mr.
Ryder.
You might say: This must be a posi-
tion of overwhelming complexity and
importance that requires a year for all
of us to think about it.
TVA is the Nation’s largest public
utility, and it is important to the mil-
lions of us in the seven-State region for
whom it provides electricity. But this
is not a lifetime appointment. It is not
a Cabinet position. It is not even a full-
time position. This is one of nine part-
time board positions whose nominees
are usually approved in the Senate by
a voice vote.
The problem is not with Mr. Ryder.
It is not because of the unusual impor-
tance of the position. The problem is
with the determination of the Demo-
cratic minority to make it nearly im-
possible for President Trump to fill the
1,200 Federal Government positions
that require confirmation by the U.S.
Senate as part of our constitutional
duty to provide advice and consent.
This is where we are: Democrats have
objected to the majority leader’s re-
quest to vote on Mr. Ryder’s nomina-
tion. As I mentioned, these are nomi-
nations normally approved by a voice
vote. So in order to have a vote, the
majority leader, Senator MCCONNELL,
has filed a cloture petition to cut off
debate on Mr. Ryder’s nomination.
The cloture process takes at least 3
days. Here is how it works: The first
day, you file cloture. That is what Sen-
ator MCCONNELL did. The second day is
a so-called intervening day when no ac-
tion can be taken, so nothing is hap-
pening. On the third day, the Senate
votes to invoke cloture, and then there
is up to 30 more hours for postcloture
debate before the Senate can finally
vote on whether to confirm Mr. Ryder.
Unfortunately, Mr. Ryder is not the
only victim of such obstructionism.
During the last 2 years, Democrats
have done what I just described 128
times. One hundred and twenty-eight
times they have required the majority
leader to consume up to 3 days to force
a vote on a Presidential nominee. By
comparison, requiring a cloture vote to
advance a nomination happened 12
times during the first 2 years of Presi-
dent Obama’s term, compared to Presi-
dent Trump’s 128 times; 4 times during
the first 2 years of George W. Bush’s
term, compared to President Trump’s
128 times; 12 times during Bill Clinton’s
first 2 years, compared to President
Trump’s 128 times. Not once during
George H. W. Bush’s first 2 years in of-
fice was it necessary for the majority
leader to file cloture to cut off debate
to advance a Presidential nomination—
not once—but it had to be done 128
times in the first 2 years of President
Trump’s time.
This unnecessary obstruction has to
change. The result of this extraor-
dinary delay in considering nominees
creates a government filled with acting
appointees who, never having gone
through the Senate confirmation proc-
ess, are less accountable to Congress
and therefore less accountable to the
American people. So at a time when
many complain that the Executive has
become too powerful, the Senate is de-
liberately making itself weaker by di-
minishing our constitutional duty to
advise and consent to individuals nomi-
nated to fill important positions—per-
haps the Senate’s best known role.
This abuse of power by the minority
is about to produce an excessive reac-
tion by the majority—something that I
think at least nine Democratic Sen-
ators who can see 2 years ahead would
want to avoid. At least nine Demo-
cratic Senators hope to be the next
President of the United States. Do they
not know that some Republicans will
do to the next Democratic President’s
nominees what Democrats have done to
President Trump’s nominees? Let me
ask that again. Do the nine Democratic
Senators who want to be the next
President of the United States—that
election is about 20 months away—not
know that if they are elected, some Re-
publicans will do to them what Demo-
crats have done to President Trump’s
nominees?
The Senate is a body of precedent.
What goes around comes around. All it
takes will be one Republican Senator
objecting to a unanimous consent re-
quest to make it difficult for the next
Democratic President to form a gov-
ernment, and this will continue the di-
minishment of the U.S. Senate.
Can Republican Senators, by major-
ity vote, change Senate rules to stop
this obstruction? Yes, we can, and we
will, if necessary. There are several
ways to change the rules of the Senate.
We can amend the standing rules of the
Senate. We can adopt a standing order.
We can pass a law. We can set a new
precedent. We can change the rules by
unanimous consent. All of these are
rules of the Senate.
The written rules of the Senate say it
requires 67 votes to amend a standing
rule and 60 votes to amend a standing
order. There is recent precedent to
change the Senate rules by a majority
vote.
In 2013, the Democratic leader, Harry
Reid, used a procedural maneuver—
let’s call it the Harry Reid precedent—
that allowed the Democratic Senate
majority to overrule the Chair and say,
in effect, that a written Senate rule
does not mean what its words say.
Now, this is as if a referee in a foot-
ball game were to say the following:
The rule book says that a first down is
10 yards, but I am the referee, and I am
ruling that a first down is 9 yards.
Well, that is what happened in 2013.
So, in 2017, what goes around comes
around. The Republican majority fol-
lowed this Harry Reid precedent in
order to make cloture on all nomina-
tions a majority vote, and now Repub-
licans are on the verge again of fol-
lowing the Harry Reid precedent.
Should Republicans do this, change a
rule by majority vote, even though our
written rules say it should be done by
60 or 67 votes? The answer is, no, we
shouldn’t, not if we can avoid it.
As Senator Carl Levin said in 2013,
when he opposed the Harry Reid prece-
dent—Senator Levin is a Democrat,
and he said: A Senate in which a ma-
jority can change its rule at any time
is a Senate without any rules.
Thomas Jefferson, who wrote our
first rules, said: It didn’t make much
difference what the rules are. It just
matters that there are some rules.
So it is at least awkward for Mem-
bers of the country’s chief rule-writing
body, the U.S. Senate, to expect Ameri-
cans to follow the rules we write for
them when we don’t follow our own
written rules.
I have heard many Democrats pri-
vately say to me, they express their re-
gret that they ever established the
Harry Reid precedent in 2013. They
didn’t look ahead and see that what
goes around comes around and that
this is a body of precedent.
So what would be the right thing for
us to do—something that avoided both
the minority’s abuse of its rights and
the majority’s excessive response. We
should do what the Senate did in 2011,
in 2012, and in 2013, when Republicans
and Democrats worked together to
make it easier for President Obama
and his successors to gain confirmation
of Presidential nominees.
As a Republican Senator, I spent doz-
ens of hours on this bipartisan project
to make it easier for a Democratic
President with a Democratic Senate
majority to form a government. I
thought that was the right thing to do,
and we changed the rules in the right
way.
The Senate passed standing orders
with bipartisan support and a new law,
the Presidential Appointment Effi-
ciency and Streamlining Act, which
eliminated confirmation for several po-
sitions. That bipartisan working group
of Senators accomplished a lot in 2011,
2012, and 2013.
We eliminated secret holds. After
over 25 years of bipartisan effort, led
by Senator GRASSLEY and Senator
WYDEN, we eliminated delays caused by
the reading of amendments. We elimi-
nated Senate confirmation of 163 major
positions.
Now, remember what we were doing
was working in a bipartisan way to try
to make it easier for President Obama
and a Democratic majority in the Sen-
ate to confirm the 1,200 Presidential
nominees that every President has to
send over here for advice and consent.
We did it for President Obama. We in-
tended to do it for his successors as
well.
We eliminated 3,163 minor career po-
sitions. We made 272 positions so-called
privileged nominations, which means
these nominations can move faster
through the Senate. We sped up mo-
tions to proceed to legislation. We
made it easier to go to conference. We
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.034 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1429
February 25, 2019
limited postcloture debate on sub-Cabi-
net positions to 8 hours and on Federal
district judges to 2 hours for the 113th
Congress. All of these changes took ef-
fect immediately over these 60 days.
Let me underscore what I am about
to say. Republicans did not insist, in
2011, 2012, and 2013, when Barack
Obama was President, that these new
rules should be delayed until after the
next Presidential election when there
might be a Republican President. Re-
publicans supported these changes for
the benefit of this institution, even
though they would immediately benefit
a Democratic President and a Demo-
cratic Senate majority.
I propose that we do that again. I in-
vite my Democratic colleagues to join
me in demonstrating the same sort of
bipartisan respect for the Senate as an
institution that Senators Reid and
MCCONNELL—the two Senate leaders at
that time—Senators SCHUMER, BAR-
RASSO, LEVIN, McCain, Kyl, CARDIN,
COLLINS, Lieberman, and I did in 2011,
2012, and 2013, when we worked to
change the Senate rules the right way.
Now, 2 weeks ago, the Rules Com-
mittee gave us an opportunity to do
things again in the right way by re-
porting to the Senate a resolution by
Senator LANKFORD and Senator BLUNT,
the chairman of the Rules Committee.
This resolution, which is similar to the
standing order that 78 Senators voted
for on January 14, 2013, would reduce
postcloture debate time for nomina-
tions. Remember, that is after day one,
the majority leader files cloture; day
two, nothing happens; day three, we
have a vote on cloture that is by 51
votes, and we would reduce the time
for debate on day three. District judges
would be debated for 2 hours, the same
as the 2013 standing order that 78 Sen-
ators voted for. Other sub-Cabinet posi-
tions would be subject to 2 hours of
postcloture debate as well.
The proposal offered by Senator
LANKFORD and Senator BLUNT would
not reduce the postcloture debate time
for Supreme Court Justices, for Cabi-
net members, for circuit court or cer-
tain Board nominations, like the Na-
tional Labor Relations Board, but
would divide the 30 hours of
postcloture debate equally between Re-
publicans and Democrats.
The Lankford-Blunt proposal would
put the Senate back where it has his-
torically been on nominations. With
rare exceptions, Senate nominations
have always been decided by majority
vote. Let me say that again. With rare
exceptions, Senate nominations have
always been decided by majority vote.
President Johnson’s nomination of
Abe Fortas as Chief Justice of the Su-
preme Court was the only example of a
Supreme Court nominee who was
blocked by requiring more than 51
votes.
There has never been, in the history
of the Senate, a Cabinet nominee who
was blocked by requiring more than 51
votes. There has never been, in the his-
tory of the Senate, a Federal district
judge whose nomination was blocked
by requiring more than 51 votes.
Since 1949, Senate rules have allowed
one Senator to insist on a cloture vote;
that is, 60 votes, which requires more
than a majority to end debate. Even
though it was allowed, it just wasn’t
done. Even the vote on the acrimonious
nomination of Clarence Thomas to the
Supreme Court was decided by a major-
ity vote of 52 to 48. Not one Senator
tried to block the nomination by re-
quiring 60 votes on a cloture motion,
even though one Senator could have
done that.
Only when Democrats began, in 2003,
to block President George W. Bush’s
nominees by insisting on a 60-vote clo-
ture vote did that tradition change.
Then, in 2017, using the Harry Reid
precedent, Republicans restored the
tradition of requiring a majority vote
to approve all Presidential nominees,
which, as I have said, has been the tra-
dition throughout the history of the
Senate.
Also, until recently, with rare excep-
tions, nominations have been consid-
ered promptly. After all, there are 1,200
of them, and the Senate has other
things to do besides just being in the
personnel business.
For example, last month, I was in
Memphis for the investiture of Mark
Norris, whose nomination languished
for 10 months on the Senate calendar.
The evening before, I had dinner with
94-year-old Harry W. Wellford. In No-
vember of 1970, Senator Howard Baker
of Tennessee had recommended Harry
Wellford to serve as a district court
judge on the same court where Mark
Norris now serves.
By December 11, 1970, 1 month later,
President Nixon had nominated Harry
Wellford, and the Senate had confirmed
him. All this happened in 1 month. Not
all nominations have moved that fast.
In 1991, a Democratic Senator, using a
secret hold, blocked President George
H. W. Bush’s nomination of me as U.S.
Education Secretary. I waited on the
calendar for 6 weeks. Those 6 weeks
seemed like an awfully long time to
me, and that was for a Cabinet posi-
tion. It was not 10 months for a part-
time position for the Tennessee Valley
Authority.
Two weeks ago, I voted to report
Senator LANKFORD and Senator
BLUNT’s resolution to the full Senate,
even though no Democrat voted for it.
I will vote for it again on the floor,
even if no Democrat will join us. I will
also join my fellow Republicans, if we
are forced to change the rules by ma-
jority vote. I do not like the Harry
Reid precedent, but I like even less the
debasement of the Senate’s constitu-
tional power to provide advice and con-
sent to 1,200 Presidential nominees.
My preference is to adopt the
Lankford-Blunt resolution, which is
very similar to the 2013 resolution that
78 Senators voted for, and to do it in a
bipartisan way, according to the writ-
ten Senate rules as we did in 2013.
I believe most Democrats privately
agree that the resolution offered by
Senators LANKFORD and BLUNT is rea-
sonable, and they will be grateful that
it is in place when there is a Demo-
cratic majority and one Republican
Senator can block a Democratic Presi-
dent’s nominees.
The only objection Democrats seem
to have to the Lankford-Blunt resolu-
tion is that it would apply to President
Trump. Their other major objection,
which is truly puzzling, is that the pro-
posed change is permanent, and the
change we made in 2013 was temporary.
Well, I wonder if Democrats would like
it better if we made this change in the
Senate temporary, only applying to the
remainder of President Trump’s term.
This is my invitation to my Demo-
cratic colleagues. Join me and Sen-
ators LANKFORD and BLUNT in sup-
porting their resolution, or modifying
it if you believe there is a way to im-
prove it, and working in a bipartisan
way, exactly as we did in 2011, 2012, and
2013.
A year or so ago, one of the Supreme
Court Justices was asked: How do you
Justices get along so well when you
have such different opinions? This Jus-
tice’s reply was this: We try to remem-
ber that the institution is more impor-
tant than any of our opinions.
We Senators would do well to emu-
late the Supreme Court Justices in re-
specting and strengthening this insti-
tution in which we are privileged to
serve. One way to do that is to join to-
gether to restore the prompt consider-
ation of any President’s 1,200 nominees
and do it in a bipartisan way that
shows the American people our written
rules mean what they say.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO ERNEST MATT HOUSE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
later this week, Leadership Tri-County
from Knox, Whitley, and Laurel Coun-
ties in my home State will present one
of its highest honors: the Leader of the
Year award. I was delighted to learn
this year’s title will be given to Ernest
Matt House, a lifelong resident of Lon-
don, KY, and a remarkable example of
entrepreneurship. I would like to take
a few moments today to pay tribute to
Ernest Matt and his many accomplish-
ments in Kentucky.
From an early age, Ernest Matt’s tal-
ents were on full display. In high
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25FE6.035 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1430 February 25, 2019
school, he excelled both in the class-
room and on the field, earning 14 var-
sity letters and a place in the Ken-
tucky High School Athletic Associa-
tion’s Hall of Fame, but these achieve-
ments, of course, were just the begin-
ning. Ernest Matt received a full schol-
arship to play football at Eastern Ken-
tucky University. There, he was EKU’s
starting quarterback for 3 years and
lettered all 4. His notable time in the
Colonel’s uniform merited inclusion
into the school’s athletic hall of fame,
and he still ranks among the best quar-
terbacks in its history.
After his graduation, Ernest Matt re-
turned to Laurel County and began
working at his family’s grocery store.
Named for both of his grandfathers, he
had big shoes to fill in the family busi-
ness, but it didn’t take long for Ernest
Matt to learn the competitive business
and set his sights on the future. Al-
though a lot has changed in the gro-
cery business and in the community,
Ernest Matt holds onto the tradition of
personal service that keeps bringing
loyal customers back to the store. Over
the next years, his continued entrepre-
neurial success earned him distinction
both in the local community and
across the Nation.
Leadership Tri-County was estab-
lished more than three decades ago to
foster and develop emerging local lead-
ers. Its programs in Kentucky invest in
the men and women who have spent
their lives making their communities a
better place to live. This award is given
each year to an individual who has con-
tributed to the area’s growth and de-
velopment, and Ernest Matt clearly
fits the bill. Through his business suc-
cess and service on local, regional, and
State board and commissions, Ernest
Matt has quite a legacy of achieve-
ment.
A man of deep faith, Ernest Matt
credits his good works both to Christ
and to his loving family, especially his
wife Kim. I am sure she, along with his
children and grandchildren, are quite
proud of him. Kentucky has been made
better because of Ernest Matt’s many
contributions, and I would like to con-
gratulate him for being named the 2019
Leader of the Year. I encourage my
Senate colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing his work.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPRO-
PRIATIONS RULES OF PROCE-
DURE
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, con-
sistent with Standing Rule XXVI, I ask
unanimous consent that the rules of
procedure of the Committee on Appro-
priations be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
COMMITTEE RULES—116TH CONGRESS
I. MEETINGS
The Committee will meet at the call of the
Chairman.
II. QUORUMS
1. Reporting a bill. A majority of the mem-
bers must be present for the reporting of a
bill.
2. Other business. For the purpose of
transacting business other than reporting a
bill or taking testimony, one-third of the
members of the Committee shall constitute
a quorum.
3. Taking testimony. For the purpose of
taking testimony, other than sworn testi-
mony, by the Committee or any sub-
committee, one member of the Committee or
subcommittee shall constitute a quorum.
For the purpose of taking sworn testimony
by the Committee, three members shall con-
stitute a quorum, and for the taking of
sworn testimony by any subcommittee, one
member shall constitute a quorum.
III. PROXIES
Except for the reporting of a bill, votes
may be cast by proxy when any member so
requests.
IV. ATTENDANCE OF STAFF MEMBERS AT CLOSED
SESSIONS
Attendance of staff members at closed ses-
sions of the Committee shall be limited to
those members of the Committee staff who
have a responsibility associated with the
matter being considered at such meeting.
This rule may be waived by unanimous con-
sent.
V. BROADCASTING AND PHOTOGRAPHING OF
COMMITTEE HEARINGS
The Committee or any of its subcommit-
tees may permit the photographing and
broadcast of open hearings by television and/
or radio. However, if any member of a sub-
committee objects to the photographing or
broadcasting of an open hearing, the ques-
tion shall be referred to the full Committee
for its decision.
VI. AVAILABILITY OF SUBCOMMITTEE REPORTS
To the extent possible, when the bill and
report of any subcommittee are available,
they shall be furnished to each member of
the Committee thirty-six hours prior to the
Committee’s consideration of said bill and
report.
VII. AMENDMENTS AND REPORT LANGUAGE
To the extent possible, amendments and
report language intended to be proposed by
Senators at full Committee markups shall be
provided in writing to the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member and the appro-
priate Subcommittee Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member twenty-four hours prior to
such markups.
VIII. POINTS OF ORDER
Any member of the Committee who is floor
manager of an appropriations bill is hereby
authorized to make points of order against
any amendment offered in violation of the
Senate Rules on the floor of the Senate to
such appropriations bill.
IX. EX OFFICIO MEMBERSHIP
The Chairman and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber of the full Committee are ex officio mem-
bers of all subcommittees of which they are
not regular members but shall have no vote
in the subcommittee and shall not be count-
ed for purposes of determining a quorum.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE ON BANKING,
HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS
RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs has adopted rules gov-
erning its procedures for the 116th Con-
gress. Pursuant to rules XXVI, para-
graph 2, of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, on behalf of myself and Sen-
ator BROWN, I ask unanimous consent
that a copy of the committee rules be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE COMMITTEE ON
BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS
[Amended February 24, 2009]
RULE 1. REGULAR MEETING DATE FOR
COMMITTEE
The regular meeting day for the Com-
mittee to transact its business shall be the
last Tuesday in each month that the Senate
is in Session; except that if the Committee
has met at any time during the month prior
to the last Tuesday of the month, the regular
meeting of the Committee may be canceled
at the discretion of the Chairman.
RULE 2. COMMITTEE
[a] Investigations. No investigation shall
be initiated by the Committee unless the
Senate, or the full Committee, or the Chair-
man and Ranking Member have specifically
authorized such investigation.
[b] Hearings. No hearing of the Committee
shall be scheduled outside the District of Co-
lumbia except by agreement between the
Chairman of the Committee and the Ranking
Member of the Committee or by a majority
vote of the Committee.
[c] Confidential testimony. No confidential
testimony taken or confidential material
presented at an executive session of the
Committee or any report of the proceedings
of such executive session shall be made pub-
lic either in whole or in part or by way of
summary, unless specifically authorized by
the Chairman of the Committee and the
Ranking Member of the Committee or by a
majority vote of the Committee.
[d] Interrogation of witnesses. Committee
interrogation of a witness shall be conducted
only by members of the Committee or such
professional staff as is authorized by the
Chairman or the Ranking Member of the
Committee.
[e] Prior notice of markup sessions. No ses-
sion of the Committee or a Subcommittee
for marking up any measure shall be held
unless [1] each member of the Committee or
the Subcommittee, as the case may be, has
been notified in writing via electronic mail
or paper mail of the date, time, and place of
such session and has been furnished a copy of
the measure to be considered, in a searchable
electronic format, at least 3 business days
prior to the commencement of such session,
or [2] the Chairman of the Committee or
Subcommittee determines that exigent cir-
cumstances exist requiring that the session
be held sooner.
[f] Prior notice of first degree amend-
ments. It shall not be in order for the Com-
mittee or a Subcommittee to consider any
amendment in the first degree proposed to
any measure under consideration by the
Committee or Subcommittee unless fifty
written copies of such amendment have been
delivered to the office of the Committee at
least 2 business days prior to the meeting. It
shall be in order, without prior notice, for a
Senator to offer a motion to strike a single
section of any measure under consideration.
Such a motion to strike a section of the
measure under consideration by the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee shall not be amend-
able. This section may be waived by a major-
ity of the members of the Committee or Sub-
committee voting, or by agreement of the
Chairman and Ranking Member. This sub-
section shall apply only when the conditions
of subsection [e][1] have been met.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.013 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1431
February 25, 2019
[g] Cordon rule. Whenever a bill or joint
resolution repealing or amending any stat-
ute or part thereof shall be before the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee, from initial consid-
eration in hearings through final consider-
ation, the Clerk shall place before each
member of the Committee or Subcommittee
a print of the statute or the part or section
thereof to be amended or repealed showing
by stricken-through type, the part or parts
to be omitted, and in italics, the matter pro-
posed to be added. In addition, whenever a
member of the Committee or Subcommittee
offers an amendment to a bill or joint resolu-
tion under consideration, those amendments
shall be presented to the Committee or Sub-
committee in a like form, showing by typo-
graphical devices the effect of the proposed
amendment on existing law. The require-
ments of this subsection may be waived
when, in the opinion of the Committee or
Subcommittee Chairman, it is necessary to
expedite the business of the Committee or
Subcommittee.
RULE 3. SUBCOMMITTEES
[a] Authorization for. A Subcommittee of
the Committee may be authorized only by
the action of a majority of the Committee.
[b] Membership. No member may be a
member of more than three Subcommittees
and no member may chair more than one
Subcommittee. No member will receive as-
signment to a second Subcommittee until, in
order of seniority, all members of the Com-
mittee have chosen assignments to one Sub-
committee, and no member shall receive as-
signment to a third Subcommittee until, in
order of seniority, all members have chosen
assignments to two Subcommittees.
[c] Investigations. No investigation shall
be initiated by a Subcommittee unless the
Senate or the full Committee has specifi-
cally authorized such investigation.
[d] Hearings. No hearing of a Sub-
committee shall be scheduled outside the
District of Columbia without prior consulta-
tion with the Chairman and then only by
agreement between the Chairman of the Sub-
committee and the Ranking Member of the
Subcommittee or by a majority vote of the
Subcommittee.
[e] Confidential testimony. No confidential
testimony taken or confidential material
presented at an executive session of the Sub-
committee or any report of the proceedings
of such executive session shall be made pub-
lic, either in whole or in part or by way of
summary, unless specifically authorized by
the Chairman of the Subcommittee and the
Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, or by
a majority vote of the Subcommittee.
[f] Interrogation of witnesses. Sub-
committee interrogation of a witness shall
be conducted only by members of the Sub-
committee or such professional staff as is au-
thorized by the Chairman or the Ranking
Member of the Subcommittee.
[g] Special meetings. If at least three
members of a Subcommittee desire that a
special meeting of the Subcommittee be
called by the Chairman of the Sub-
committee, those members may file in the
offices of the Committee their written re-
quest to the Chairman of the Subcommittee
for that special meeting. Immediately upon
the filing of the request, the Clerk of the
Committee shall notify the Chairman of the
Subcommittee of the filing of the request. If,
within 3 calendar days after the filing of the
request, the Chairman of the Subcommittee
does not call the requested special meeting,
to be held within 7 calendar days after the
filing of the request, a majority of the mem-
bers of the Subcommittee may file in the of-
fices of the Committee their written notice
that a special meeting of the Subcommittee
will be held, specifying the date and hour of
that special meeting. The Subcommittee
shall meet on that date and hour. Imme-
diately upon the filing of the notice, the
Clerk of the Committee shall notify all
members of the Subcommittee that such spe-
cial meeting will be held and inform them of
its date and hour. If the Chairman of the
Subcommittee is not present at any regular
or special meeting of the Subcommittee, the
Ranking Member of the majority party on
the Subcommittee who is present shall pre-
side at that meeting.
[h] Voting. No measure or matter shall be
recommended from a Subcommittee to the
Committee unless a majority of the Sub-
committee are actually present. The vote of
the Subcommittee to recommend a measure
or matter to the Committee shall require the
concurrence of a majority of the members of
the Subcommittee voting. On Subcommittee
matters other than a vote to recommend a
measure or matter to the Committee no
record vote shall be taken unless a majority
of the Subcommittee is actually present.
Any absent member of a Subcommittee may
affirmatively request that his or her vote to
recommend a measure or matter to the Com-
mittee or his vote on any such other matters
on which a record vote is taken, be cast by
proxy. The proxy shall be in writing and
shall be sufficiently clear to identify the
subject matter and to inform the Sub-
committee as to how the member wishes his
or her vote to be recorded thereon. By writ-
ten notice to the Chairman of the Sub-
committee any time before the record vote
on the measure or matter concerned is
taken, the member may withdraw a proxy
previously given. All proxies shall be kept in
the files of the Committee.
RULE 4. WITNESSES
[a] Filing of statements. Any witness ap-
pearing before the Committee or Sub-
committee [including any witness rep-
resenting a Government agency] must file
with the Committee or Subcommittee [24
hours preceding his or her appearance] 75
copies of his or her statement to the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee, and the statement
must include a brief summary of the testi-
mony. In the event that the witness fails to
file a written statement and brief summary
in accordance with this rule, the Chairman
of the Committee or Subcommittee has the
discretion to deny the witness the privilege
of testifying before the Committee or Sub-
committee until the witness has properly
complied with the rule.
[b] Length of statements. Written state-
ments properly filed with the Committee or
Subcommittee may be as lengthy as the wit-
ness desires and may contain such docu-
ments or other addenda as the witness feels
is necessary to present properly his or her
views to the Committee or Subcommittee.
The brief summary included in the state-
ment must be no more than 3 pages long. It
shall be left to the discretion of the Chair-
man of the Committee or Subcommittee as
to what portion of the documents presented
to the Committee or Subcommittee shall be
published in the printed transcript of the
hearings.
[c] Ten-minute duration. Oral statements
of witnesses shall be based upon their filed
statements but shall be limited to 10 min-
utes duration. This period may be limited or
extended at the discretion of the Chairman
presiding at the hearings.
[d] Subpoena of witnesses. Witnesses may
be subpoenaed by the Chairman of the Com-
mittee or a Subcommittee with the agree-
ment of the Ranking Member of the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee or by a majority
vote of the Committee or Subcommittee.
[e] Counsel permitted. Any witness subpoe-
naed by the Committee or Subcommittee to
a public or executive hearing may be accom-
panied by counsel of his or her own choosing
who shall be permitted, while the witness is
testifying, to advise him or her of his or her
legal rights.
[f] Expenses of witnesses. No witness shall
be reimbursed for his or her appearance at a
public or executive hearing before the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee unless such reim-
bursement is agreed to by the Chairman and
Ranking Member of the Committee.
[g] Limits of questions. Questioning of a
witness by members shall be limited to 5
minutes duration when 5 or more members
are present and 10 minutes duration when
less than 5 members are present, except that
if a member is unable to finish his or her
questioning in this period, he or she may be
permitted further questions of the witness
after all members have been given an oppor-
tunity to question the witness.
Additional opportunity to question a wit-
ness shall be limited to a duration of 5 min-
utes until all members have been given the
opportunity of questioning the witness for a
second time. This 5-minute period per mem-
ber will be continued until all members have
exhausted their questions of the witness.
RULE 5. VOTING
[a] Vote to report a measure or matter. No
measure or matter shall be reported from the
Committee unless a majority of the Com-
mittee is actually present. The vote of the
Committee to report a measure or matter
shall require the concurrence of a majority
of the members of the Committee who are
present.
Any absent member may affirmatively re-
quest that his or her vote to report a matter
be cast by proxy. The proxy shall be suffi-
ciently clear to identify the subject matter,
and to inform the Committee as to how the
member wishes his vote to be recorded there-
on. By written notice to the Chairman any
time before the record vote on the measure
or matter concerned is taken, any member
may withdraw a proxy previously given. All
proxies shall be kept in the files of the Com-
mittee, along with the record of the rollcall
vote of the members present and voting, as
an official record of the vote on the measure
or matter.
[b] Vote on matters other than to report a
measure or matter. On Committee matters
other than a vote to report a measure or
matter, no record vote shall be taken unless
a majority of the Committee are actually
present. On any such other matter, a mem-
ber of the Committee may request that his
or her vote may be cast by proxy. The proxy
shall be in writing and shall be sufficiently
clear to identify the subject matter, and to
inform the Committee as to how the member
wishes his or her vote to be recorded there-
on. By written notice to the Chairman any
time before the vote on such other matter is
taken, the member may withdraw a proxy
previously given. All proxies relating to such
other matters shall be kept in the files of the
Committee.
RULE 6. QUORUM
No executive session of the Committee or a
Subcommittee shall be called to order unless
a majority of the Committee or Sub-
committee, as the case may be, are actually
present. Unless the Committee otherwise
provides or is required by the Rules of the
Senate, one member shall constitute a
quorum for the receipt of evidence, the
swearing in of witnesses, and the taking of
testimony.
RULE 7. STAFF PRESENT ON DAIS
Only members and the Clerk of the Com-
mittee shall be permitted on the dais during
public or executive hearings, except that a
member may have one staff person accom-
pany him or her during such public or execu-
tive hearing on the dais. If a member desires
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.015 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1432 February 25, 2019
a second staff person to accompany him or
her on the dais he or she must make a re-
quest to the Chairman for that purpose.
RULE 8. COINAGE LEGISLATION
At least 67 Senators must cosponsor any
gold medal or commemorative coin bill or
resolution before consideration by the Com-
mittee.
EXTRACTS FROM THE STANDING RULES OF THE
SENATE
RULE XXV, STANDING COMMITTEES
1. The following standing committees shall
be appointed at the commencement of each
Congress, and shall continue and have the
power to act until their successors are ap-
pointed, with leave to report by bill or other-
wise on matters within their respective ju-
risdictions:
* * *
[d][1] Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, to which committee shall be
referred all proposed legislation, messages,
petitions, memorials, and other matters re-
lating to the following subjects:
1. Banks, banking, and financial institu-
tions.
2. Control of prices of commodities, rents,
and services.
3. Deposit insurance.
4. Economic stabilization and defense pro-
duction.
5. Export and foreign trade promotion.
6. Export controls.
7. Federal monetary policy, including Fed-
eral Reserve System.
8 Financial aid to commerce and industry.
9. Issuance and redemption of notes.
10. Money and credit, including currency
and coinage.
11. Nursing home construction.
12. Public and private housing [including
veterans’ housing].
13. Renegotiation of Government con-
tracts.
14. Urban development and urban mass
transit.
[2] Such committee shall also study and re-
view, on a comprehensive basis, matters re-
lating to international economic policy as it
affects United States monetary affairs, cred-
it, and financial institutions; economic
growth, urban affairs, and credit, and report
thereon from time to time.
COMMITTEE PROCEDURES FOR PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEES
Procedures formally adopted by the U.S.
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, February 4, 1981, establish a
uniform questionnaire for all Presidential
nominees whose confirmation hearings come
before this Committee.
In addition, the procedures establish that:
[1] A confirmation hearing shall normally
be held at least 5 days after receipt of the
completed questionnaire by the Committee
unless waived by a majority vote of the Com-
mittee.
[2] The Committee shall vote on the con-
firmation not less than 24 hours after the
Committee has received transcripts of the
hearing unless waived by unanimous con-
sent.
[3] All nominees routinely shall testify
under oath at their confirmation hearings.
This questionnaire shall be made a part of
the public record except for financial infor-
mation, which shall be kept confidential.
Nominees are requested to answer all ques-
tions, and to add additional pages where nec-
essary.
f
DECLARATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask by
unanimous consent that the attached
letter signed by 58 former national se-
curity officials, who served under Re-
publican and Democratic administra-
tions, criticizing President Trump’s
declaration of a national emergency to
build a wall on our southern border be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
JOINT DECLARATION OF FORMER UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
We, the undersigned, declare as follows.
1. We are former officials in the U.S. gov-
ernment who have worked on national secu-
rity and homeland security issues from the
White House as well as agencies across the
Executive Branch. We have served in senior
leadership roles in administrations of both
major political parties, and collectively we
have devoted a great many decades to pro-
tecting the security interests of the United
States. We have held the highest security
clearances, and we have participated in the
highest levels of policy deliberations on a
broad range of issues. These include: immi-
gration, border security, counterterrorism,
military operations, and our nation’s rela-
tionship with other countries, including
those south of our border.
a. Madeleine K. Albright served as Sec-
retary of State from 1997 to 2001. A refugee
and naturalized American citizen, she served
as U.S. Permanent Representative to the
United Nations from 1993 to 1997. She has
also been a member of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency External Advisory Board
since 2009 and of the Defense Policy Board
since 2011, in which capacities she has re-
ceived assessments of threats facing the
United States.
b. Jeremy B. Bash served as Chief of Staff
of the U.S. Department of Defense from 2011
to 2013, and as Chief of Staff of the Central
Intelligence Agency from 2009 to 2011.
c. John B. Bellinger III served as the Legal
Adviser to the U.S. Department of State
from 2005 to 2009. He previously served as
Senior Associate Counsel to the President
and Legal Adviser to the National Security
Council from 2001 to 2005.
d. Daniel Benjamin served as Ambassador-
at-Large for Counterterrorism at the U.S.
Department of State from 2009 to 2012.
e. Antony Blinken served as Deputy Sec-
retary of State from 2015 to 2017. He pre-
viously served as Deputy National Security
Advisor to the President from 2013 to 2015.
f. John O. Brennan served as Director of
the Central Intelligence Agency from 2013 to
2017. He previously served as Deputy Na-
tional Security Advisor for Homeland Secu-
rity and Counterterrorism and Assistant to
the President from 2009 to 2013.
g. R. Nicholas Burns served as Under Sec-
retary of State for Political Affairs from 2005
to 2008. He previously served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to NATO and as U.S. Ambassador to
Greece.
h. William J. Burns served as Deputy Sec-
retary of State from 2011 to 2014 He pre-
viously served as Under Secretary of State
for Political Affairs from 2008 to 2011, as U.S.
Ambassador to Russia from 2005 to 2008, as
Assistant Secretary of State for Near East-
ern Affairs from 2001 to 2005, and as U.S. Am-
bassador to Jordan from 1998 to 2001.
i. Johnnie Carson served as Assistant Sec-
retary of State for African Affairs from 2009
to 2013. He previously served as the U.S. Am-
bassador to Kenya from 1999 to 2003, to
Zimbabwe from 1995 to 1997, and to Uganda
from 1991 to 1994.
j. James Clapper served as U.S. Director of
National Intelligence from 2010 to 2017.
k. David S. Cohen served as Under Sec-
retary of the Treasury for Terrorism and Fi-
nancial Intelligence from 2011 to 2015 and as
Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency from 2015 to 2017.
l. Eliot A. Cohen served as Counselor of the
U.S. Department of State from 2007 to 2009.
m. Ryan Crocker served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to Afghanistan from 2011 to 2012, as
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq from 2007 to 2009, as
U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan from 2004 to
2007, as U.S. Ambassador to Syria from 1998
to 2001, as U.S. Ambassador to Kuwait from
1994 to 1997, and U.S. Ambassador to Lebanon
from 1990 to 1993.
n. Thomas Donilon served as National Se-
curity Advisor to the President from 2010 to
2013.
o. Jen Easterly served as Special Assistant
to the President and Senior Director for
Counterterrorism from 2013 to 2016.
p. Nancy Ely-Raphel served as Senior Ad-
viser to the Secretary of State and Director
of the Office to Monitor and Combat Traf-
ficking in Persons from 2001 to 2003. She pre-
viously served as the U.S. Ambassador to
Slovenia from 1998 to 2001.
q. Daniel P. Erikson served as Special Ad-
visor for Western Hemisphere Affairs to the
Vice President from 2015 to 2017, and as Sen-
ior Advisor for Western Hemisphere Affairs
at the U.S. Department of State from 2010 to
2015.
r. John D. Feeley served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to Panama from 2015 to 2018. He served
as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Western Hemisphere Affairs at the U.S. De-
partment of State from 2012 to 2015.
s. Daniel F. Feldman served as Special
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan
at the U.S. Department of State from 2014 to
2015.
t. Jonathan Finer served as Chief of Staff
to the Secretary of State from 2015 to 2017,
and Director of the Policy Planning Staff at
the U.S. Department of State from 2016 to
2017.
u. Jendayi Frazer served as Assistant Sec-
retary of State for African Affairs from 2005
to 2009. She served as U.S. Ambassador to
South Africa from 2004 to 2005.
v. Suzy George served as Executive Sec-
retary and Chief of Staff of the National Se-
curity Council from 2014 to 2017.
w. Phil Gordon served as Special Assistant
to the President and White House Coordi-
nator for the Middle East, North Africa and
the Gulf from 2013 to 2015, and Assistant Sec-
retary of State for European and Eurasian
Affairs from 2009 to 2013.
x. Chuck Hagel served as Secretary of De-
fense from 2013 to 2015, and previously served
as Co-Chair of the President’s Intelligence
Advisory Board. From 1997 to 2009, he served
as U.S. Senator for Nebraska, and as a senior
member of the Senate Foreign Relations and
Intelligence Committees.
y. Avril D. Haines served as Deputy Na-
tional Security Advisor to the President
from 2015 to 2017. From 2013 to 2015, she
served as Deputy Director of the Central In-
telligence Agency.
z. Luke Hartig served as Senior Director
for Counterterrorism at the National Secu-
rity Council from 2014 to 2016.
aa. Heather A. Higginbottom served as
Deputy Secretary of State for Management
and Resources from 2013 to 2017.
bb. Roberta Jacobson served as U.S. Am-
bassador to Mexico from 2016 to 2018. She
previously served as Assistant Secretary of
State for Western Hemisphere Affairs from
2011 to 2016.
cc. Gil Kerlikowske served as Commis-
sioner of Customs and Border Protection
from 2014 to 2017. He previously served as Di-
rector of the Office of National Drug Control
Policy from 2009 to 2014.
dd. John F. Kerry served as Secretary of
State from 2013 to 2017.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.017 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1433
February 25, 2019
ee. Prem Kumar served as Senior Director
for the Middle East and North Africa at the
National Security Council from 2013 to 2015.
ff. John E. McLaughlin served as Deputy
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
from 2000 to 2004 and as Acting Director in
2004. His duties included briefing President-
elect Bill Clinton and President George W.
Bush.
gg. Lisa O. Monaco served as Assistant to
the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism and Deputy National Secu-
rity Advisor from 2013 to 2017. Previously,
she served as Assistant Attorney General for
National Security from 2011 to 2013.
hh. Janet Napolitano served as Secretary
of Homeland Security from 2009 to 2013. She
served as the Governor of Arizona from 2003
to 2009.
ii. James D. Nealon served as Assistant
Secretary for International Engagement at
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
from 2017 to 2018. He served as U.S. Ambas-
sador to Honduras from 2014 to 2017.
jj. James C. O’Brien served as Special Pres-
idential Envoy for Hostage Affairs from 2015
to 2017. He served in the U.S. Department of
State from 1989 to 2001, including as Prin-
cipal Deputy Director of Policy Planning and
as Special Presidential Envoy for the Bal-
kans.
kk. Matthew G. Olsen served as Director of
the National Counterterrorism Center from
2011 to 2014.
ll. Leon E. Panetta served as Secretary of
Defense from 2011 to 2013. From 2009 to 2011,
he served as Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
mm. Anne W. Patterson served as Assist-
ant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Af-
fairs from 2013 to 2017. Previously, she served
as the U.S. Ambassador to Egypt from 2011
to 2013, to Pakistan from 2007 to 2010, to Co-
lombia from 2000 to 2003, and to El Salvador
from 1997 to 2000.
nn. Thomas R. Pickering served as Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs from
1997 to 2000. He served as U.S. Permanent
Representative to the United Nations from
1989 to 1992.
oo. Amy Pope served as Deputy Homeland
Security Advisor and Deputy Assistant to
the President from 2015 to 2017.
pp. Samantha J. Power served as U.S. Per-
manent Representative to the United Na-
tions from 2013 to 2017. From 2009 to 2013, she
served as Senior Director for Multilateral
and Human Rights at the National Security
Council.
qq. Jeffrey Prescott served as Deputy Na-
tional Security Advisor to the Vice Presi-
dent from 2013 to 2015, and as Special Assist-
ant to the President and Senior Director for
Iran, Iraq, Syria and the Gulf States from
2015 to 2017.
rr. Nicholas Rasmussen served as Director
of the National Counterterrorism Center
from 2014 to 2017.
ss. Alan Charles Raul served as Vice Chair-
man of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Over-
sight Board from 2006 to 2008. He previously
served as General Counsel of the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture from 1989 to 1993,
General Counsel of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Executive Office of the
President from 1988 to 1989, and Associate
Counsel to the President from 1986 to 1989.
tt. Dan Restrepo served as Special Assist-
ant to the President and Senior Director for
Western Hemisphere Affairs at the National
Security Council from 2009 to 2012.
uu. Susan E. Rice served as U.S. Perma-
nent Representative to the United Nations
from 2009 to 2013 and as National Security
Advisor to the President from 2013 to 2017.
vv. Anne C. Richard served as Assistant
Secretary of State for Population, Refugees,
and Migration from 2012 to 2017.
ww. Eric P. Schwartz served as Assistant
Secretary of State for Population, Refugees,
and Migration from 2009 to 2011. From 1993 to
2001, he was responsible for refugee and hu-
manitarian issues at the National Security
Council, ultimately serving as Special As-
sistant to the President for National Secu-
rity Affairs and Senior Director for Multilat-
eral and Humanitarian Affairs.
xx. Andrew J. Shapiro served as Assistant
Secretary of State for Political-Military Af-
fairs from 2009 to 2013.
yy. Wendy R. Sherman served as Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs from
2011 to 2015.
zz. Vikram Singh served as Deputy Special
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan
from 2010 to 2011 and as Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Southeast Asia from
2012 to 2014.
aaa. Dana Shell Smith served as U.S. Am-
bassador to Qatar from 2014 to 2017. Pre-
viously, she served as Principal Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of Public Affairs.
bbb. Jeffrey H. Smith served as General
Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency
from 1995 to 1996. He previously served as
General Counsel of the Senate Armed Serv-
ices Committee.
ccc. Jake Sullivan served as National Se-
curity Advisor to the Vice President from
2013 to 2014. He previously served as Director
of Policy Planning at the U.S. Department of
State from 2011 to 2013.
ddd. Strobe Talbott served as Deputy Sec-
retary of State from 1994 to 2001.
eee. Linda Thomas-Greenfield served as
Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Afri-
can Affairs from 2013 to 2017. She previously
served as U.S. Ambassador to Liberia and
Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Bureau
of Population, Refugees, and Migration from
2004 to 2006.
fff. Arturo A. Valenzuela served as Assist-
ant Secretary of State for Western Hemi-
sphere Affairs from 2009 to 2011. He pre-
viously served as Special Assistant to the
President and Senior Director for Inter-
American Affairs at the National Security
Council from 1999 to 2000, and as Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of State for Mexican Af-
fairs from 1994 to 1996.
2. On February 15, 2019, the President de-
clared a ‘‘national emergency’’ for the pur-
pose of diverting appropriated funds from
previously designated uses to build a wall
along the southern border. We are aware of
no emergency that remotely justifies such a
step. The President’s actions are at odds
with the overwhelming evidence in the pub-
lic record, including the administration’s
own data and estimates. We have lived and
worked through national emergencies, and
we support the President’s power to mobilize
the Executive Branch to respond quickly in
genuine national emergencies. But under no
plausible assessment of the evidence is there
a national emergency today that entitles the
President to tap into funds appropriated for
other purposes to build a wall at the south-
ern border. To our knowledge, the Presi-
dent’s assertion of a national emergency
here is unprecedented, in that he seeks to ad-
dress a situation: (1) that has been enduring,
rather than one that has arisen suddenly; (2)
that in fact has improved over time rather
than deteriorated; (3) by reprogramming bil-
lions of dollars in funds in the face of clear
congressional intent to the contrary; and (4)
with assertions that are rebutted not just by
the public record, but by his agencies’ own
official data, documents, and statements.
3. Illegal border crossings are near forty-year
lows. At the outset, there is no evidence of a
sudden or emergency increase in the number
of people seeking to cross the southern bor-
der. According to the administration’s own
data, the numbers of apprehensions and un-
detected illegal border crossings at the
southern border are near forty-year lows. Al-
though there was a modest increase in appre-
hensions in 2018, that figure is in keeping
with the number of apprehensions only two
years earlier, and the overall trend indicates
a dramatic decline over the last fifteen years
in particular. The administration also esti-
mates that ‘‘undetected unlawful entries’’ at
the southern border ‘‘fell from approxi-
mately 851,000 to nearly 62,000’’ between fis-
cal years 2006 to 2016, the most recent years
for which data are available. The United
States currently hosts what is estimated to
be the smallest number of undocumented im-
migrants since 2004. And in fact, in recent
years, the majority of currently undocu-
mented immigrants entered the United
States legally, but overstayed their visas, a
problem that will not be addressed by the
declaration of an emergency along the south-
ern border.
4. There is no documented terrorist or na-
tional security emergency at the southern bor-
der. There is no reason to believe that there
is a terrorist or national security emergency
at the southern border that could justify the
President’s proclamation.
a. This administration’s own most recent
Country Report on Terrorism, released only
five months ago, found that ‘‘there was no
credible evidence indicating that inter-
national terrorist groups have established
bases in Mexico, worked with Mexican drug
cartels, or sent operatives via Mexico into
the United States.’’ Since 1975, there has
been only one reported incident in which im-
migrants who had crossed the southern bor-
der illegally attempted to commit a terrorist
act That incident occurred more than twelve
years ago, and involved three brothers from
Macedonia who had been brought into the
United States as children more than twenty
years earlier.
b. Although the White House has claimed,
as an argument favoring a wall at the south-
ern border, that almost 4,000 known or sus-
pected terrorists were intercepted at the
southern border in a single year, this asser-
tion has since been widely and consistently
repudiated, including by this administra-
tion’s own Department of Homeland Secu-
rity. The overwhelming majority of individ-
uals on terrorism watchlists who were inter-
cepted by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol
were attempting to travel to the United
States by air; of the individuals on the ter-
rorist watchlist who were encountered while
entering the United States during fiscal year
2017, only 13 percent traveled by land. And
for those who have attempted to enter by
land, only a small fraction do so at the
southern border. Between October 2017 and
March 2018, forty-one foreign immigrants on
the terrorist watchlist were intercepted at
the northern border. Only six such immi-
grants were intercepted at the southern bor-
der.
5. There is no emergency related to violent
crime at the southern border. Nor can the ad-
ministration justify its actions on the
grounds that the incidence of violent crime
on the southern border constitutes a na-
tional emergency. Factual evidence consist-
ently shows that unauthorized immigrants
have no special proclivity to engage in
criminal or violent behavior. According to a
Cato Institute analysis of criminological
data, undocumented immigrants are 44 per-
cent less likely to be incarcerated nationwide
than are native-born citizens. And in Texas,
undocumented immigrants were found to
have a first-time conviction rate 32 percent
below that of native-born Americans; the
conviction rates of unauthorized immigrants
for violent crimes such as homicide and sex
offenses were also below those of native-born
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.029 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1434 February 25, 2019
Americans. Meanwhile, overall rates of vio-
lent crime in the United States have de-
clined significantly over the past 25 years,
falling 49 percent from 1993 to 2017. And vio-
lent crime rates in the country’s 30 largest
cities have decreased on average by 2.7 per-
cent in 2018 alone, further undermining any
suggestion that recent crime trends cur-
rently warrant the declaration of a national
emergency.
6. There is no human or drug trafficking emer-
gency that can be addressed by a wall at the
southern border. The administration has
claimed that the presence of human and drug
trafficking at the border justifies its emer-
gency declaration. But there is no evidence
of any such sudden crisis at the southern
border that necessitates a reprogramming of
appropriations to build a border wall.
a. The overwhelming majority of opioids
that enter the United States across a land
border are carried through legal ports of
entry in personal or commercial vehicles,
not smuggled through unauthorized border
crossings. A border wall would not stop these
drugs from entering the United States. Nor
would a wall stop drugs from entering via
other routes, including smuggling tunnels,
which circumvent such physical barriers as
fences and walls, and international mail
(which is how high-purity fentanyl, for ex-
ample, is usually shipped from China di-
rectly to the United States).
b. Likewise, illegal crossings at the south-
ern border are not the principal source of
human trafficking victims. About two-thirds
of human trafficking victims served by non-
profit organizations that receive funding
from the relevant Department of Justice of-
fice are U.S. citizens, and even among non-
citizens, most trafficking victims usually ar-
rive in the country on valid visas. None of
these instances of trafficking could be ad-
dressed by a border wall. And the three
states with the highest per capita trafficking
reporting rates are not even located along
the southern border.
7. This proclamation will only exacerbate the
humanitarian concerns that do exist at the
southern border. There are real humanitarian
concerns at the border, but they largely re-
sult from the current administration’s own
deliberate policies towards migrants. For ex-
ample, the administration has used a ‘‘me-
tering’’ policy to turn away families fleeing
extreme violence and persecution in their
home countries, forcing them to wait indefi-
nitely at the border to present their asylum
cases, and has adopted a number of other pu-
nitive steps to restrict those seeking asylum
at the southern border. These actions have
forced asylum-seekers to live on the streets
or in makeshift shelters and tent cities with
abysmal living conditions, and limited ac-
cess to basic sanitation has caused outbreaks
of disease and death. This state of affairs is
a consequence of choices this administration
has made, and erecting a wall will do noth-
ing to ease the suffering of these people.
8. Redirecting funds for the claimed ‘‘national
emergency’’ will undermine U.S. national secu-
rity and foreign policy interests. In the face of
a nonexistent threat, redirecting funds for
the construction of a wall along the southern
border will undermine national security by
needlessly pulling resources from Depart-
ment of Defense programs that are respon-
sible for keeping our troops and our country
safe and running effectively.
a. Repurposing funds from the defense con-
struction budget will drain money from crit-
ical defense infrastructure projects, possibly
including improvement of military hospitals,
construction of roads, and renovation of on-
base housing. And the proclamation will
likely continue to divert those armed forces
already deployed at the southern border
from their usual training activities or mis-
sions, affecting troop readiness.
b. In addition, the administration’s unilat-
eral, provocative actions are heightening
tensions with our neighbors to the south, at
a moment when we need their help to ad-
dress a range of Western Hemisphere con-
cerns. These actions are placing friendly
governments to the south under impossible
pressures and driving partners away. They
have especially strained our diplomatic rela-
tionship with Mexico, a relationship that is
vital to regional efforts ranging from critical
intelligence and law enforcement partner-
ships to cooperative efforts to address the
growing tensions with Venezuela. Addition-
ally, the proclamation could well lead to the
degradation of the natural environment in a
manner that could only contribute to long-
term socioeconomic and security challenges.
c. Finally, by declaring a national emer-
gency for domestic political reasons with no
compelling reason or justification from his
senior intelligence and law enforcement offi-
cials, the President has further eroded his
credibility with foreign leaders, both friend
and foe. Should a genuine foreign crisis
erupt, this lack of credibility will materially
weaken this administration’s ability to mar-
shal allies to support the United States, and
will embolden adversaries to oppose us.
9. The situation at the border does not require
the use of the armed forces, and a wall is unnec-
essary to support the use of the armed forces.
We understand that the administration is
also claiming that the situation at the
southern border ‘‘requires use of the armed
forces,’’ and that a wall is ‘‘necessary to sup-
port such use’’ of the armed forces. These
claims are implausible
a. Historically, our country has deployed
National Guard troops at the border solely
to assist the Border Patrol when there was
an extremely high number of apprehensions,
together with a particularly low number of
Border Patrol agents. But currently, even
with retention and recruitment challenges,
the Border Patrol is at historically high
staffing and funding levels, and apprehen-
sions—measured in both absolute and per-
agent terms—are near historic lows.
b. Furthermore, the composition of south-
ern border crossings has shifted such that
families and unaccompanied minors now ac-
count for the majority of immigrants seek-
ing entry at the southern border; these indi-
viduals do not present a threat that would
need to be countered with military force.
c. Just last month, when asked what the
military is doing at the border that couldn’t
be done by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity if it had the funding for it, a top-level
defense official responded, ‘‘[n]one of the ca-
pabilities that we are providing [at the
southern border] are combat capabilities. It’s
not a war zone along the border.’’ Finally, it
is implausible that hundreds of miles of wall
across the southern border are somehow nec-
essary to support the use of armed forces. We
are aware of no military- or security-related
rationale that could remotely justify such an
endeavor.
10. There is no basis for circumventing the ap-
propriations process with a declaration of a na-
tional emergency at the southern border. We do
not deny that our nation faces real immigra-
tion and national security challenges. But as
the foregoing demonstrates, these challenges
demand a thoughtful, evidence-based strat-
egy, not a manufactured crisis that rests on
falsehoods and fearmongering. In a briefing
before the Senate Intelligence Committee on
January 29, 2019, less than one month before
the Presidential Proclamation, the Directors
of the CIA, DNI, FBI, and NSA testified
about numerous serious current threats to
U.S. national security, but none of the offi-
cials identified a security crisis at the U.S.-
Mexico border. In a briefing before the House
Armed Services Committee the next day,
Pentagon officials acknowledged that the
2018 National Defense Strategy does not
identify the southern border as a security
threat. Leading legislators with access to
classified information and the President’s
own statements have strongly suggested, if
not confirmed, that there is no evidence sup-
porting the administration’s claims of an
emergency. And it is reported that the Presi-
dent made the decision to circumvent the ap-
propriations process and reprogram money
without the Acting Secretary of Defense
having even started to consider where the
funds might come from, suggesting an ab-
sence of consultation and internal delibera-
tions that in our experience are necessary
and expected before taking a decision of this
magnitude.
11. For all of the foregoing reasons, in our
professional opinion, there is no factual basis
for the declaration of a national emergency
for the purpose of circumventing the appro-
priations process and reprogramming bil-
lions of dollars in funding to construct a wall
at the southern border, as directed by the
Presidential Proclamation of February 15,
2019.
Respectfully submitted,
Signed,
Madeleine K. Albright, Jeremy B. Bash,
John B. Bellinger III, Daniel Benjamin,
Antony Blinken, John O. Brennan, R. Nich-
olas Burns, William J. Burns, Johnnie Car-
son, James Clapper.
David S. Cohen, Eliot A. Cohen, Ryan
Crocker, Thomas Donilon, Jen Easterly,
Nancy Ely-Raphel, Daniel P. Erikson, John
D. Feeley, Daniel F. Feldman, Jonathan
Finer.
Jendayi Frazer, Suzy George, Phil Gordon,
Chuck Hagel, Avril D. Haines, Luke Hartig,
Heather A. Higginbottom, Roberta Jacobson,
Gil Kerlikowske, John F. Kerry.
Prem Kumar, John E. McLaughlin, Lisa O.
Monaco, Janet Napolitano, James D. Nealon,
James C. O’Brien, Matthew G. Olsen, Leon E.
Panetta, Anne W. Patterson, Thomas R.
Pickering.
Amy Pope, Samantha J. Power, Jeffrey
Prescott, Nicholas Rasmussen, Alan Charles
Raul, Dan Restrepo, Susan E. Rice, Anne C.
Richard, Eric P. Schwartz, Andrew J. Sha-
piro.
Wendy R. Sherman, Vikram Singh, Dana
Shell Smith, Jeffrey H. Smith, Jake Sul-
livan, Strobe Talbott, Linda Thomas-Green-
field, Arturo A. Valenzuela.
f
TRIBUTE TO TOM FONTANA
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I would
like to offer my congratulations to
Tom Fontana, special assistant to the
CEO for the U.S. Capitol Visitor Cen-
ter, CVC, on his retirement after 30
years of Federal service.
Tom began his career at the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers in 1988. He
was responsible for communications for
one of the Corps’ largest projects, the
renovation of the Pentagon in the
1990s. He eventually joined the U.S. De-
partment of Defense, where he contin-
ued working to successfully completing
the project. Tom was at the Pentagon
on September 11, 2001, when a plane hi-
jacked by terrorist crashed into the
building.
While Tom had just accepted a posi-
tion with the Architect of the Capitol,
AOC, to manage communications for
the construction phase of the U.S. Cap-
itol Visitor Center, due to the tragedy,
he remained in his position at the Pen-
tagon to lend assistance before assum-
ing his role with the CVC in 2001.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.029 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1435
February 25, 2019
Throughout the construction of the
CVC, Tom provided countless tours and
briefings to Members of Congress, in-
cluding leadership and their staff.
Given his depth of knowledge, respon-
siveness, and evenhandedness through
that challenging time, Tom earned
great respect from the Members of Con-
gress and the media in Washington.
In 2008, Tom subsequently assumed
the role of director of communications
and marketing for the U.S. Capitol Vis-
itor Center. Under Tom’s leadership,
the CVC communications division ex-
panded from providing the basics of a
startup operation, to providing a wide
range of communications to help visi-
tors learn about the Capitol and work-
ings of Congress. He has always looked
for ways to take advantage of new
technologies to engage visitors, stu-
dents in particular, about Congress’s
history. Under his leadership, the first
AOC apps were developed, and one of
them received a national award for its
innovation.
For many Members of Congress, dig-
nitaries, AOC, and CVC staff, Tom is
the authoritative voice on the Capitol
Visitor Center. He is widely respected
for his unique knowledge about the
Capitol building and grounds. From
presenting inspiring tours to engaging
visitors who are simply seeking direc-
tions, he personifies an experience all
visitors expect when they come to the
U.S. Capitol. Tom is an ambassador for
the CVC, the Capitol, and Congress
without equal.
Tom has also been an incredible asset
to me and my office throughout his
leadership at the CVC. Every year, I
host a unique dinner on Capitol Hill for
governmental leaders from all over the
continent of Africa, including heads of
state, legislators, and cabinet mem-
bers. Ambassadors and guests who are
key leaders in Africa also attend, along
with several U.S. legislators. Prior to
the dinner, we provide the guests with
a tour of the Capitol to learn more
about our Capitol building and the
workings of Congress. Throughout all
of the years I have held the tour and
dinner, Tom has gone above and be-
yond what was required to make our
guests feel welcome and to ensure that
everything runs smoothly. His role in
the success of our event has become so
essential that, several years ago, we
began inviting Tom to the dinner not
only to support it, but to take part in
it.
Tom leaves big shoes to fill. My Sen-
ate colleagues and I appreciate Tom’s
hard work and commitment to our
Capitol and country. He will be missed,
but I wish him all the best in his re-
tirement.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING SERGEANT RAMBO
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
today, with a heavy heart, I wish to
pay tribute to Sergeant Rambo N557, a
medically retired military working
dog—MWD—who dedicated his life to
the Marine Corps and raising aware-
ness for his fellow retired working
dogs. Sadly, Sergeant Rambo passed
away earlier this month. He will be re-
membered for his loving spirit and life-
time of service.
Sergeant Rambo served as an explo-
sive detection MWD based out of MCCS
Cherry Point, NC, from January 6, 2011,
to April 11, 2012. Throughout his Active
Duty, Sergeant Rambo completed 620
stateside searches, two official state-
side missions, and about 1,000 hours of
training. Unfortunately, a left shoulder
injury prevented him from deploying.
Nonetheless, he served valiantly along-
side his handler, protecting their base
and the community until retirement.
Connecticut native Lisa Phillips, who
served in the U.S. Army as a veteri-
nary technician, adopted Sergeant
Rambo after his retirement. Despite
needing an amputation because of his
earlier injury, he remained committed
to serving his Nation.
Well loved by people of all ages and
capacities, Sergeant Rambo visited
summer youth groups and local nurs-
ing homes, connecting with and bring-
ing hope to children with special needs
and elderly people suffering from de-
mentia. His joyful and empathetic per-
sonality allowed him to bond with peo-
ple across the Nation.
Sergeant Rambo also used his experi-
ences to highlight animal welfare,
military, and veteran issues. He be-
came the mascot for Alamo Honor
Flight, accompanying World War II
veterans to Washington, DC, and for
Gizmo’s Gift, a nonprofit that supports
people who have adopted retired work-
ing dogs by offering free medical care
and other necessary financial support.
He and Lisa attended press events with
me, helping gain backing for the Ca-
nine Members of the Armed Forces
Act, which sought to improve care for
MWDs once their Active Duty ends by
streamlining the adoption process and
establishing a national non-profit to
cover the veterinary costs associated
with retired working dogs. Several pro-
visions of that act have become law.
In 2015, the American Humane Asso-
ciation named Sergeant Rambo the
Military Dog of the Year. He and Lisa
used this platform to give a TEDx Talk
the next year about MWDs and Gizmo’s
Gift. Then, in March 2017, they testi-
fied before the Connecticut General As-
sembly about a bill to establish K–9
Veterans Day in our State.
My wife Cynthia and I extend our
deepest sympathies to Lisa during this
difficult time. We know without a
doubt that Sergeant Rambo’s legacy
will leave a positive impact on the
lives he touched and causes he cham-
pioned for years to come.∑
f
RECOGNIZING MAGELLAN
TRANSPORT LOGISTICS
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I wish to
honor and commend one of the dedi-
cated and hard-working small busi-
nesses that does so much for the State
of Florida. As chairman of the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship, each week I recognize a
small business that exemplifies the
unique American entrepreneurial spir-
it. Today, it is my distinct pleasure to
name Magellan Transport Logistics, of
Jacksonville, FL, as the Senate Small
Business of the Week.
Founded in 2006, Magellan Transport
Logistics is a Service-Disabled Vet-
eran-Owned Small Business dedicated
to providing its customers with a wide
range of transportation needs. Tom
Piatak founded Magellan Transport
Logistics based on many of the same
qualities that he learned while serving
in the U.S. Army. A graduate of the
U.S. Military Academy, Tom instills
into the company the values he learned
from West Point, as well as from his
service as a combat engineer during
Operation Desert Storm.
Today, Tom serves as chief executive
officer and chairman of Magellan.
Under his guidance, the company has
quickly become a leader in supporting
the vast transportation needs of its cli-
ents. Tom and his team have gained
much of their success by recruiting
some of the most talented leaders and
logistics professionals in the industry.
By instituting four core values of en-
trepreneurship, ownership mentality,
innovation, and transparency within
the company, Magellan has created a
positive culture that has translated
into rapid growth and success. In
March of 2018, Magellan announced the
acquisition of a 47,000-square-foot ware-
house and the hiring of 100 employees
over the next 5 years, furthering its in-
vestment in the Jacksonville commu-
nity.
Magellan is known for its dedication
to its employees and as a pillar of the
Jacksonville community. The company
offers complete logistics and transpor-
tation services, both local and inter-
national, by truck or airplane, while
also providing warehousing services
and supply chain management. Magel-
lan has built strong relationships with
its clients by embracing the ‘‘no man
left behind’’ principle that Tom
learned during his time serving our
country in the U.S. Army.
As a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned
Small Business, Magellan is committed
to hiring veterans and participating in
community service events to benefit
America’s veterans. This past Decem-
ber, Magellan sponsored 20 wreaths for
National Wreaths Across America Day,
as well as assisted with unloading and
placing the memorial wreaths on the
graves of fallen servicemembers. Ma-
gellan actively supports the Wounded
Warrior Project, and their commit-
ment to veterans in their community
is a testament to the company’s val-
ues.
In addition to their continued service
to our Nation’s veterans, Magellan has
also aided the community in disaster
relief efforts. Following Hurricane Mi-
chael in the fall of 2018, Magellan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.018 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1436 February 25, 2019
worked directly with FEMA, providing
40 trucks and three staff members as
part of the disaster recovery effort.
They also partnered with Operation
BBQ Relief, a nonprofit organization,
to deliver meals and supplies to fami-
lies throughout impacted areas.
Tom Piatak and Magellan are regu-
larly honored for their success and
dedication to the Jacksonville commu-
nity. During the 2017–2018 NFL football
season, the Jacksonville Jaguars hon-
ored Magellan as their Veteran Busi-
ness Owner of the Week. The Jackson-
ville Business Journal recognized Tom
and the team at Magellan for their ef-
forts to hire veterans, and the Wounded
Warrior Project awarded the company
with the Wounded Warrior Certificate
of Recognition in 2017.
Tom Piatak’s work to grow Magellan
Transport Logistics while staying com-
mitted to his community and veterans
represents the dedication to service for
which Florida entrepreneurs are well
known. Through hard work, Tom and
his team at Magellan Transport Logis-
tics have built a successful business
grounded in strong values, while serv-
ing as an example of superior corporate
citizenship. I would like to congratu-
late Tom and the entire team at Magel-
lan Transport Logistics for being
named the Senate Small Business of
the Week. I wish them good luck and
look forward to watching their contin-
ued growth and success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on February 15,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the House agreed to the following
concurrent resolution:
S. Con. Res. 4. Concurrent resolution pro-
viding for a correction in the enrollment of
H.J. Res. 31.
The message also announced that the
House agreed to the report of the com-
mittee of conference on the disagreeing
votes of the two Houses on the amend-
ment of the Senate to the resolution
(H.J. Res. 31) making further con-
tinuing appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on February 15,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled joint resolution:
H.J. Res. 31. Joint resolution making con-
solidated appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled joint resolution was signed on
February 15, 2019, during the adjourn-
ment of the Senate, by the Acting
President pro tempore (Mrs. FISCHER).
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:01 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that pursuant to sections
5580 and 5581 of the revised statutes (20
U.S.C. 42–43), and the order of the
House of January 3, 2019, the Speaker
appoints the following Members on the
part of the House of Representatives to
the Board of Regents of the Smithso-
nian Institution: Ms. MATSUI of Cali-
fornia and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD of Cali-
fornia.
The message further announced that
pursuant to section 2(a) of the National
Cultural Center Act (20 U.S.C. 76h(a)),
amended by Public Law 107–117, and
the order of the House of January 3,
2019, the Speaker appoints the fol-
lowing Members on the part of the
House of Representatives to the Board
of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts: Mr.
KENNEDY of Massachusetts and Mrs.
BEATTY of Ohio.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1024(a), and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Members on the part of the House of
Representatives to the Joint Economic
Committee: Mr. BEYER of Virginia, Mr.
HECK of Washington, Mr. TRONE of
Maryland, Mrs. BEATTY of Ohio, and
Ms. FRANKEL of Florida.
The message further announced that
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 1928a, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Member on the part of the House of
Representatives to the United States
Group of the NATO Parliamentary As-
sembly: Mr. VELA of Texas.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 36 U.S.C. 2302, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Members on the part of the House of
Representatives to the United States
Holocaust Memorial Council: Mr.
DEUTCH of Florida, Mr. SCHNEIDER of Il-
linois, and Mr. LEWIS of Georgia.
The message further announced that
pursuant to section 4 of the United
States Semiquincentennial Commis-
sion Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–196),
and the order of the House of January
3, 2019, the Speaker appoints the fol-
lowing Member on the part of the
House of Representatives to the United
States Semiquincentennial Commis-
sion to fill the existing vacancy there-
on: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN of New Jer-
sey.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–344. A communication from the Execu-
tive Director, Office of Congressional Work-
place Rights, transmitting, pursuant to Sec-
tion 201(b) of the Congressional Account-
ability Act of 1995 Reform Act, a biennial re-
port entitled ‘‘Recommendations for Im-
provements to the Congressional Account-
ability Act,’’ received in the office of the
President pro tempore of the Senate; to the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
EC–345. A message from the President of
the United States, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to the issuance of an
Executive Order declaring a national emer-
gency in order to address the border security
and humanitarian crisis that is threatening
the United States; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works:
Report to accompany S. 163, A bill to pre-
vent catastrophic failure or shutdown of re-
mote diesel power engines due to emission
control devices, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–2).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. 536. A bill to amend the Securities Act
of 1933 to expand the ability to use testing
the waters and confidential draft registra-
tion submissions, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Mr. MORAN,
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
CRAMER, and Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 537. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide the work oppor-
tunity tax credit with respect to hiring vet-
erans who are receiving educational assist-
ance under laws administered by the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs or Defense; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Ms. STA-
BENOW, and Mr. CASEY):
S. 538. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a credit for em-
ployer-provided worker training; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.020 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1437
February 25, 2019
S. 539. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish Lifelong
Learning and Training Account programs; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
ROUNDS, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 540. A bill to provide minimum stand-
ards for transactions secured by a dwelling,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. SASSE, Mr.
BENNET, and Mr. KING):
S. 541. A bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to establish a pilot program for pro-
viding portable benefits to eligible workers,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. RISCH, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 542. A bill to protect the right of law-
abiding citizens to transport knives inter-
state, notwithstanding a patchwork of local
and State prohibitions; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. MARKEY):
S. 543. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to finalize rules to protect
consumers from the risks of carbon mon-
oxide poisoning and rollaways from motor
vehicles, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. REED, Ms. HARRIS, and Mr.
COONS):
S. 544. A bill to require the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence to submit to Congress a
report on the death of Jamal Khashoggi, and
for other purposes; to the Select Committee
on Intelligence.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 545. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of
Education to award institutions of higher
education grants for teaching English learn-
ers; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr.
GARDNER, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. BEN-
NET, Ms. WARREN, Mr. CASEY, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. COONS,
and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 546. A bill to extend authorization for
the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2090, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
S. 547. A bill to amend the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 to require certain re-
ports filed under such Act to include the dis-
closure of persons who are registered lobby-
ists under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of
1995, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration .
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms.
CANTWELL):
S. 548. A bill to reauthorize the Money Fol-
lows the Person Demonstration Program; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MARKEY, and
Mr. CARDIN):
S. 549. A bill to modernize voter registra-
tion, promote access to voting for individ-
uals with disabilities, protect the ability of
individuals to exercise the right to vote in
elections for Federal office, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR:
S. 550. A bill to require States to automati-
cally register eligible voters at the time
they turn 18 to vote in Federal elections, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 551. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require manufactur-
ers of certain single-dose vial drugs payable
under part B of the Medicare program to pro-
vide rebates with respect to amounts of such
drugs discarded, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 73
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
73, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to deny the deduction
for advertising and promotional ex-
penses for prescription drugs.
S. 92
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Texas (Mr. COR-
NYN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 92,
a bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5,
United States Code, to provide that
major rules of the executive branch
shall have no force or effect unless a
joint resolution of approval is enacted
into law.
S. 164
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 164, a bill to
amend title 10, United States Code, to
remove the prohibition on eligibility
for TRICARE Reserve Select of mem-
bers of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces who are eligible to en-
roll in a health benefits plan under
chapter 89 of title 5, United States
Code.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER), the Senator from Lou-
isiana (Mr. KENNEDY) and the Senator
from West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were
added as cosponsors of S. 172, a bill to
delay the reimposition of the annual
fee on health insurance providers until
after 2021.
S. 191
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
191, a bill to direct the Secretary of De-
fense to include in periodic health as-
sessments, separation history and
physical examinations, and other as-
sessments an evaluation of whether a
member of the Armed Forces has been
exposed to open burn pits or toxic air-
borne chemicals, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES), the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) and the Senator
from Montana (Mr. TESTER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 203, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
permanently extend the railroad track
maintenance credit, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 215
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 215, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the es-
tate and generation-skipping transfer
taxes, and for other purposes.
S. 239
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 239, a bill to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in rec-
ognition of Christa McAuliffe.
S. 266
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
266, a bill to provide for the long-term
improvement of public school facili-
ties, and for other purposes.
S. 270
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
270, a bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide more
effective remedies to victims of dis-
crimination in the payment of wages
on the basis of sex, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 286
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 286, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for the coverage of marriage
and family therapist services and men-
tal health counselor services under
part B of the Medicare program, and
for other purposes.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 296, a bill to
amend XVIII of the Social Security Act
to ensure more timely access to home
health services for Medicare bene-
ficiaries under the Medicare program.
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) and the Senator from
Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 296, supra.
S. 311
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 311, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit a
health care practitioner from failing to
exercise the proper degree of care in
the case of a child who survives an
abortion or attempted abortion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.033 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1438 February 25, 2019
S. 317
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 317, a bill to amend title XIX of
the Social Security Act to provide
States with the option of providing co-
ordinated care for children with com-
plex medical conditions through a
health home.
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 317, supra.
S. 320
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 320, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to require feder-
ally licensed firearms importers, man-
ufacturers, and dealers to meet certain
requirements with respect to securing
their firearms inventory, business
records, and business premises.
S. 323
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN), the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 323, a bill to
direct the Secretary of Education to
establish the Recognition Inspiring
School Employees (RISE) Program rec-
ognizing excellence exhibited by classi-
fied school employees providing serv-
ices to students in prekindergarten
through high school.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY), the Senator from
Washington (Ms. CANTWELL), the Sen-
ator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) and the
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR) were added as cosponsors of S.
362, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of
alcoholic beverages.
S. 383
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) and the Senator from South
Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 383, a bill to support car-
bon dioxide utilization and direct air
capture research, to facilitate the per-
mitting and development of carbon
capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects and carbon dioxide pipelines,
and for other purposes.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the names
of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER), the Senator from
Oklahoma (Mr. LANKFORD), the Senator
from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH), the
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) and
the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) were added as cosponsors of
S. 386, a bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the
per-country numerical limitation for
employment-based immigrants, to in-
crease the per-country numerical limi-
tation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY), the Senator
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW), the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. MUR-
PHY), the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS), the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS), the Senator
from Maine (Ms. COLLINS), the Senator
from New Mexico (Mr. UDALL), the Sen-
ator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO)
and the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) were added as cosponsors of
S. 479, a bill to revise section 48 of title
18, United States Code, and for other
purposes.
S. 488
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 488, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to specify lynching
as a deprivation of civil rights, and for
other purposes.
S. 496
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
496, a bill to preserve United States
fishing heritage through a national
program dedicated to training and as-
sisting the next generation of commer-
cial fishermen, and for other purposes.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 500, a bill to amend title 54,
United States Code, to establish, fund,
and provide for the use of amounts in a
National Park Service Legacy Restora-
tion Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service,
and for other purposes.
S. 506
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 506, a bill to support State, Tribal,
and local efforts to remove access to
firearms from individuals who are a
danger to themselves or others pursu-
ant to court orders for this purpose.
S. 507
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
507, a bill to amend the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 to clarify that
a State may not use an individual’s
failure to vote as the basis for initi-
ating the procedures provided under
such Act for the removal of the indi-
vidual from the official list of reg-
istered voters in the State on the
grounds that the individual has
changed residence, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 513
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Dela-
ware (Mr. COONS) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 513, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, with respect to
civil forfeitures relating to certain
seized animals, and for other purposes.
S. 514
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 514, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
benefits and services provided by the
Department of Veterans Affairs to
women veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 521, a bill to amend title II of the
Social Security Act to repeal the Gov-
ernment pension offset and windfall
elimination provisions.
S. 524
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 524, a bill to establish the
Department of Veterans Affairs Advi-
sory Committee on Tribal and Indian
Affairs, and for other purposes.
S. 525
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE), the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST), the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) and the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 525, a bill to preserve and pro-
tect the free choice of individual em-
ployees to form, join, or assist labor or-
ganizations, or to refrain from such ac-
tivities.
S.J. RES. 6
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) were added as cosponsors of
S.J. Res. 6, a joint resolution removing
the deadline for the ratification of the
equal rights amendment.
S. RES. 73
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 73, a resolution call-
ing on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to
immediately release Saudi Women’s
Rights activists and respect the funda-
mental rights of all Saudi citizens.
S. RES. 74
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 74, a resolution
marking the fifth anniversary of
Ukraine’s Revolution of Dignity by
honoring the bravery, determination,
and sacrifice of the people of Ukraine
during and since the Revolution, and
condemning continued Russian aggres-
sion against Ukraine.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.035 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1439
February 25, 2019
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and
Mr. PORTMAN):
S. 551. A bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to require
manufacturers of certain single-dose
vial drugs payable under part B of the
Medicare program to provide rebates
with respect to amounts of such drugs
discarded, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 551
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Recovering
Excessive Funds for Unused and Needless
Drugs Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘REFUND Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. REQUIRING MANUFACTURERS OF CER-
TAIN SINGLE-DOSE VIAL DRUGS PAY-
ABLE UNDER PART B OF THE MEDI-
CARE PROGRAM TO PROVIDE RE-
BATES WITH RESPECT TO DIS-
CARDED AMOUNTS OF SUCH DRUGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1834 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(w) REBATE FOR CERTAIN DISCARDED SIN-
GLE-DOSE VIAL DRUGS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The manufacturer (as de-
fined in section 1847A(c)(6)(A)) of a rebatable
single-dose vial drug furnished in a calendar
quarter shall, not later than 30 days after the
date of receipt of information described in
paragraph (2)(A)(iii) with respect to such
quarter, provide to the Secretary a rebate
that is equal to the amount specified in para-
graph (3) for such drug for such quarter.
‘‘(2) SECRETARIAL DUTIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For each calendar quar-
ter, the Secretary shall, with respect to a
rebatable single-dose vial drug of a manufac-
turer furnished during such quarter—
‘‘(i) require, through use of a modifier such
as the JW modifier used as of the date of en-
actment of this subsection (or any such suc-
cessor code that includes such data as deter-
mined appropriate by the Secretary), an in-
dication on a claim for such drug of the
amount of such drug that was discarded after
such drug was furnished, if any;
‘‘(ii) determine the rebatable amount (as
defined in subparagraph (B)) with respect to
such drug; and
‘‘(iii) not later than 60 days after the end of
such quarter, provide to such manufacturer
notice of—
‘‘(I) the total number of units of such drug
discarded during such quarter (as determined
by the Secretary based on the aggregate
rebatable amount (as so defined) with re-
spect to such drug for such quarter), if any;
and
‘‘(II) the rebate amount specified in para-
graph (3) for such drug and such quarter.
‘‘(B) REBATABLE AMOUNT.—The term
‘rebatable amount’ means, with respect to a
rebatable single-dose vial drug of a manufac-
turer furnished during a quarter, 90 percent
of the amount (if any) of such drug that was
discarded as indicated pursuant to subpara-
graph (A)(i).
‘‘(3) REBATE AMOUNT.—The amount of the
rebate specified in this paragraph is, with re-
spect to a rebatable single-dose vial drug of
a manufacturer furnished in a calendar quar-
ter, an amount equal to the product of—
‘‘(A) the total number of units of such drug
discarded during such quarter as determined
under paragraph (2)(A)(iii)(I); and
‘‘(B) the lesser of—
‘‘(i) the average sales price (as defined in
section 1847A(c)(1)) for a unit of such drug for
such quarter (or, in the case of a drug sub-
ject to an agreement with such manufac-
turer under section 340B of the Public Health
Service Act, the price for a unit of such drug
for such quarter under such agreement); or
‘‘(ii) the wholesale acquisition cost (as de-
fined in section 1847A(c)(6)(B)) for a unit of
such drug.
‘‘(4) REBATE DEPOSITS.—Amounts paid as
rebates pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be de-
posited into the Federal Supplementary
Medical Insurance Trust Fund established
under section 1841.
‘‘(5) ENFORCEMENT.—
‘‘(A) AUDITS.—Each manufacturer of a
rebatable single dose-vial drug that is re-
quired to provide a rebate under this sub-
section shall be subject to periodic audit
with respect to such drug and such rebates
by the Secretary.
‘‘(B) CIVIL MONEY PENALTY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall im-
pose a civil money penalty on a manufac-
turer of a rebatable single dose-vial drug who
has failed to comply with the requirement
under paragraph (1) for such drug for a cal-
endar quarter in an amount the Secretary
determines is commensurate with the sum
of—
‘‘(I) the amount that the manufacturer
would have paid under such paragraph with
respect to such drug for such quarter; and
‘‘(II) 25 percent of such amount.
‘‘(ii) APPLICATION.—The provisions of sec-
tion 1128A (other than subsections (a) and
(b)) shall apply to a civil money penalty
under this subparagraph in the same manner
as such provisions apply to a penalty or pro-
ceeding under section 1128A(a).
‘‘(6) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) REBATABLE SINGLE-DOSE VIAL DRUG.—
The term ‘rebatable single-dose vial drug’
means a single source drug or biological (as
defined in section 1847A(c)(6)(D)) paid for
under this part and furnished on or after
January 1, 2020, from a single-dose vial.
‘‘(B) UNIT.—The term ‘unit’ has the mean-
ing given such term in section
1847A(b)(2)(B).’’.
(b) COLLECTION OF COINSURANCE ONLY FOR
PORTION OF REBATABLE SINGLE-DOSE VIAL
DRUG ADMINISTERED.—Section 1833(a) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)(S), by inserting sub-
ject to subsection (cc), before with respect
to; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(cc) COLLECTION OF COINSURANCE ONLY
FOR PORTION OF REBATABLE SINGLE-DOSE
VIAL DRUG ADMINISTERED.—When processing
a claim for a rebatable single-dose vial drug
(as defined in section 1834(w)(6)), the Sec-
retary, acting through the relevant medicare
administrative contractor with respect to
such claim, shall only collect coinsurance
from a beneficiary, taking into account any
coverage under a Medicare supplemental pol-
icy certified under section 1882 or any other
supplemental insurance coverage of the ben-
eficiary, with respect to the portion of the
drug administered (as indicated by the J-por-
tion of the claim for the drug used as of the
date of enactment of this subsection, or any
successor code that includes such data as de-
termined appropriate by the Secretary), in
an amount equal to 20 percent of the amount
of payment that would be made if payment
for the claim was based only on the portion
of the drug administered (as so indicated).
Nothing in the preceding sentence shall af-
fect the amount paid to the provider of serv-
ices or supplier with respect to the drug
under this part (as determined based on the
total amount of the drug for which the claim
was submitted, including the portion of the
drug administered and the portion discarded,
as indicated by the J-portion of the claim
and the JW modifier, respectively, used as of
such date of enactment or any successor
codes that include such data as determined
appropriate by the Secretary).’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I have
a request for one committee to meet
during today’s session of the Senate. It
has the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Monday, Feb-
ruary 25, 2019, at 5 p.m., to conduct a
closed hearing.
f
BIENNIAL REPORT OF BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF CONGRESSIONAL
WORKPLACE RIGHTS
U.S. CONGRESS, OFFICE OF CONGRES-
SIONAL WORKPLACE RIGHTS,
Washington, DC, February 25, 2019.
Hon. CHARLES GRASSLEY,
President Pro Tempore, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: Section 102(b) of the
Congressional Accountability Act of 1995
(CAA) requires the Board of Directors of the
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights
(OCWR) to biennially submit a report con-
taining recommendations regarding Federal
workplace rights, safety and health, and pub-
lic access laws and regulations that should
be made applicable to Congress and its agen-
cies. The purpose of this report is to ensure
that the rights afforded by the CAA to legis-
lative branch employees and visitors to Cap-
itol Hill and district offices remain equiva-
lent to those in the private sector and the
executive branch of the Federal government.
As such, these recommendations support the
intent of Congress to keep pace with ad-
vances in workplace rights and public access
laws.
Accompanying this letter is a copy of our
section 102(b) report—titled ‘‘Recommenda-
tions for Improvements to the Congressional
Accountability Act’’—for consideration by
the 116th Congress. We welcome discussion
on these issues and urge that Congress act on
these important recommendations.
Your office is receiving this initial copy
prior to it being uploaded to our public
website. On March 4, 2019, this report will be
disseminated to the larger Congressional
community and available on www.ocwr.gov.
As required by the Congressional Account-
ability Act, 2 U.S.C. § 1302(b), I request that
this publication be printed in the Congres-
sional Record, and referred to the commit-
tees of the House of Representatives and
Senate with jurisdiction.
Sincerely,
SUSAN TSUI GRUNDMANN,
Executive Director.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.038 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1440 February 25, 2019
116TH CONGRESS—RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IM-
PROVEMENTS TO THE CONGRESSIONAL AC-
COUNTABILITY ACT
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights—
Board of Directors’ Biennial Report re-
quired by § 102(b) of the Congressional Ac-
countability Act issued at the conclusion of
the 115th Congress (2017–2018) for consid-
eration by the 116th Congress
Statement From the Board of Directors
The Congressional Accountability Act of
1995 (CAA) embodies a promise by Congress
to the American public that it will hold
itself accountable to the same federal work-
place and accessibility laws that it applies to
private sector employers and executive
branch agencies. This landmark legislation
was also crafted to provide for ongoing re-
view of the workplace and accessibility laws
that apply to Congress. Section 102(b) of the
CAA thus tasks the Board of Directors of the
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights
(OCWR)—formerly the Office of Compli-
ance—to review legislation and regulations
to ensure that workplace protections in the
legislative branch are on par with private
sector and executive branch agencies. Ac-
cordingly, every Congress, the Board reports
on: whether or to what degree [provisions of
Federal law (including regulations) relating
to (A) the terms and conditions of employ-
ment (including hiring, promotion, demo-
tion, termination, salary, wages, overtime
compensation, benefits, work assignments or
reassignments, grievance and disciplinary
procedures, protection from discrimination
in personnel actions, occupational health
and safety, and family and medical and other
leave) of employees; and (B) access to public
services and accommodations] . . . are appli-
cable or inapplicable to the legislative
branch, and . . . with respect to provisions
inapplicable to the legislative branch,
whether such provisions should be made ap-
plicable to the legislative branch. This sec-
tion of the CAA also requires that the pre-
siding officers of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate cause our report to be
printed in the Congressional Record and
refer the report to committees of the House
and Senate with jurisdiction.
On December 21, 2018, as we were in the
process of finalizing our Section 102(b) Re-
port for the 115th Congress, the Congres-
sional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform
Act, S. 3749, was signed into law. Not since
the passage of the CAA in 1995 has there been
a more significant moment in the evolution
of legislative branch workplace rights. The
new law focuses on protecting victims,
strengthening transparency, holding viola-
tors accountable for their personal conduct,
and improving the adjudication process.
Some of the changes in the CAA Reform Act
are effective immediately, such as the name
change of our Office, but most will be effec-
tive 180 days from enactment, i.e., on June
19, 2019. The CAA Reform Act incorporates
several of the recommendations that the
OCWR has made to Congress in past Section
102(b) Reports and in other contexts, such as
in testimony before the Committee on House
Administration (CHA) as part of that com-
mittee’s comprehensive review in 2018 of the
protections that the CAA offers legislative
branch employees against harassment and
discrimination in the congressional work-
place. These changes include the following:
Mandatory Anti-Discrimination, Anti-Harass-
ment, and Anti-Retaliation Training
The Board has consistently recommended
in its past biennial Section 102(b) Reports
and in testimony before Congress that anti-
discrimination, anti-harassment, and anti-
reprisal training should be mandatory for all
Members, officers, employees and staff of
Congress and the other employing offices in
the legislative branch. Last year, the House
and the Senate adopted resolutions (S. Res
330 and H. Res. 630) that require all of its
Members, Officers and employees, as well as
interns, detailees, and fellows, to complete
an anti-harassment and anti-discrimination
training program. We are pleased that the
CAA Reform Act includes these broader
mandates for the congressional workforce at
large. Under the new law, employing offices
(other than the House of Representatives and
the Senate) are also required to develop and
implement a program to train and educate
covered employees on the rights and protec-
tions provided under the CAA, including the
procedures available under CAA title IV,
which describes the OCWR administrative
and judicial dispute resolution procedures.
509(a), 2 U.S.C. § 1438(a). Employing offices
must submit a report on the implementation
of their CAA-required training and education
programs to the CHA and the Committee on
Rules and Administration of the Senate no
later than 45 days after the beginning of each
Congress, beginning with the 117th Congress.
For the 116th Congress, this report is due no
later than 180 days after the enactment of
the CAA Reform Act, which is June 19, 2019.
509(b)(1), (b)(2), 2 U.S.C. § 1438(b)(1), (b)(2)
The OCWR stands ready to assist employ-
ing offices in developing their anti-discrimi-
nation, anti-harassment, and anti-reprisal
programs by providing training opportuni-
ties and materials that are easily under-
stood, practical rather than legalistic, prov-
en effective, and which emphasize the change
of culture on Capitol Hill. Through these
programs, we can achieve the goal of a legis-
lative branch that is free from discrimina-
tion, harassment and reprisal.
Adopt All Notice-Posting Requirements that
Exist Under the Federal Anti-Discrimina-
tion, Anti-Harassment, and Other Work-
place Rights Laws Covered Under the
CAA
The Board has long been concerned that
employees who experience harassment or
discrimination in the legislative branch may
be deterred from taking action simply due to
a lack of awareness of their rights under the
CAA. The Board has therefore consistently
recommended in its Section 102(b) reports
that Congress adopt all notice-posting re-
quirements that exist under the Federal
antidiscrimination, anti-harassment, and
other workplace rights laws covered under
the CAA. Through permanent postings, cur-
rent and new employees remain informed
about their rights regardless of their loca-
tion, employee turnover, or other changes in
the workplace. The notices also serve as a re-
minder to employers about their workplace
responsibilities and the legal ramifications
of violating the law. They are also a visible
commitment by Congress to the workplace
protections embodied in the CAA. The CAA
Reform Act now requires that employing of-
fices post and keep posted in conspicuous
places on their premises the notices provided
by the OCWR, which must contain informa-
tion about employees’ rights and the OCWR’s
Administrative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
process, along with OCWR contact informa-
tion. 2 U.S.C. § 1362.
Name Change
As the Board advised Congress in 2014,
changing the name of the office to ‘‘Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights’’ would bet-
ter reflect our mission, raise our public pro-
file in connection with our mandate to edu-
cate the legislative branch, and make it easi-
er for employees to identify us when they
need assistance. Effective December 21, 2018,
the Reform Act renamed the ‘‘Office of Com-
pliance’’ as the ‘‘Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights.’’ This name change noti-
fies legislative branch employees that the
Office is tasked with protecting their work-
place rights through its programs of dispute
resolution, education, and enforcement. As
the Office embraces its new name, it remains
committed to the mission of advancing
workplace rights, safety and health, and ac-
cessibility for workers and visitors on Cap-
itol Hill, as envisioned in the CAA and the
CAA Reform Act.
Extending Coverage to Interns, Fellows, and
Detailees
The Board also has consistently rec-
ommended in its Section 102(b) Reports that
Congress extend the coverage and protec-
tions of the anti-discrimination, anti-harass-
ment, and anti-reprisal provisions of the
CAA to all staff, including interns, fellows,
and detailees working in any employing of-
fice in the legislative branch, regardless of
how or whether they are paid. The CAA Re-
form Act amends section 201 of the CAA—
which applies title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 (outlawing discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, or national ori-
gin), the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act, the Rehabilitation Act, and title I of
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)—
to apply the protections and remedies of
those laws to current and former ‘‘unpaid
staff.’’ ‘‘Unpaid staff’’ is defined in the Re-
form Act as ‘‘any staff member of an employ-
ing office who carries out official duties of
the employing office but who is not paid by
the employing office for carrying out such
duties . . . including an intern, an individual
detailed to an employing office, and an indi-
vidual participating in a fellowship
program[.]’’ These laws apply to unpaid staff
‘‘in the same manner and to the same extent
as such subsections apply with respect to a
covered employee[.]’’ 201(d), 2 U.S.C. § 1311(d).
The Reform Act thus ensures that unpaid in-
terns, fellows, and detailees are covered by
the CAA.
Extending Coverage to Library of Congress
Employees
Prior to 2018, only certain provisions of the
CAA applied to employees of the Library of
Congress (LOC), and the Board expressed its
support for proposals to amend the CAA to
include the LOC within the definition of
‘‘employing office,’’ thereby extending CAA
protections to LOC employees for most pur-
poses. The 2018 omnibus spending bill amend-
ed the CAA to bring the LOC and its employ-
ees within the OCWR’s (then OOC’s) jurisdic-
tion. That bill amended the definition of
‘‘covered employee’’ under the CAA to in-
clude employees of the LOC, and it added the
LOC as an ‘‘employing office’’ for all pur-
poses except the CAA’s labor-management
relations provisions. Among other changes,
the bill gave to LOC employees a choice on
how to pursue complaints of employment
discrimination—allowing them to pursue a
complaint either with the LOC’s Office of
Equal Employment Opportunity and Diver-
sity Programs or with the OCWR. The Re-
form Act incorporates these statutory
changes and further clarifies the rights of
LOC employees in this regard as well as oth-
ers. Its provisions are effective retroactive
to March 23, 2018. 2 U.S.C. § 1401(d)(5).
Changes to the Dispute Resolution Proce-
dures Under the CAA
In testimony before the CHA as part of
that committee’s comprehensive review of
the CAA and the protections that law offers
legislative branch employees against harass-
ment and discrimination in the congres-
sional workplace, OCWR Executive Director
Susan Tsui Grundmann conveyed the Board
of Directors’ considered recommendations
for changes to the ADR procedures set forth
in the Act, discussed below.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.021 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1441
February 25, 2019
Pre-Reform Act Procedures Under the CAA
As stated above, the effective date for the
new ADR procedures under the Reform Act
is June 19, 2019. Currently, prior to filing a
complaint with the OCWR pursuant to sec-
tion 405 of the Act or in the U.S. District
Court, the CAA requires that an employee
satisfy two jurisdictional prerequisites: man-
datory counseling and mandatory mediation.
If a claim is not resolved during the coun-
seling phase and the employee wishes to pur-
sue the matter, the CAA currently requires
the employee to file a request for mediation
with the OCWR. When a case proceeds to me-
diation, the employing office is notified
about the claim and the parties attempt to
settle the matter with the assistance of a
trained neutral mediator appointed by the
OCWR.
If the parties fail to resolve their dispute
in mediation, a covered employee may elect
to proceed directly to the third step in the
process, either by filing an administrative
complaint with the OCWR, in which case the
complaint would be decided by an OCWR
Hearing Officer in a confidential setting, or
by filing a lawsuit in a U.S. District Court,
in which case the proceedings would be a
matter of public record. By statute, this
election—which is the employee’s alone—
must occur not later than 90 days, but not
sooner than 30 days, after the end of the pe-
riod of mediation. This statutory timing re-
quirement creates a 30-day period—some-
times referred to as a ‘‘cooling off period’’—
before the employee can proceed. A party
dissatisfied with the decision of the Hearing
Officer may file a petition for review with
the OCWR Board of Directors, and any deci-
sion of the Board may be appealed to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Cir-
cuit. If, instead of filing a request for an ad-
ministrative hearing, the employee files a
civil suit in Federal district court, an appeal
of that decision would proceed under the
rules of the appropriate U.S. Court of Ap-
peals. As is discussed below, the Board has
advocated in the legislative process for sev-
eral procedural changes now provided for in
the Reform Act, which potentially shorten
the case handling process without compro-
mising its effectiveness in resolving disputes
under the CAA.
Counseling and Mediation Changes
In testimony before the CHA, Executive
Director Grundmann explained that coun-
selors often provide covered employees with
their first opportunity to discuss their work-
place concerns and to learn about their stat-
utory protections under the CAA. She con-
veyed the Board’s view that, although coun-
seling need not remain mandatory under the
CAA, the CAA should not be amended in such
a manner as to eliminate the availability of
an opportunity for employees to voluntarily
seek confidential assistance from our office.
Under the new procedures set forth in the
CAA Reform Act, counseling will no longer
be mandatory. Rather, the CAA Reform Act
provides for the optional services of a con-
fidential advisor—an attorney who can,
among other things, provide information to
covered employees, on a privileged and con-
fidential basis, about their rights under the
CAA. 2 U.S.C. § 1402(a)(3).
As with counseling, the Executive Director
also conveyed to the CHA the Board’s view
supporting the elimination of mediation as a
mandatory jurisdictional prerequisite to as-
serting claims under the CAA. The Board
nonetheless recommended that mediation be
maintained as a valuable option available to
those parties who mutually seek to settle
their dispute. The OCWR’s experience over
many years has been that a large percentage
of controversies were successfully resolved
without formal adversarial proceedings, due
in large part to its mediation processes. Me-
diation can save the parties from burden-
some litigation, which can be expensive,
time consuming, and a drain on resources
and workplace productivity. Mediation also
gives the parties an opportunity to explore
resolving the dispute themselves without
having a result imposed upon them. Further-
more, OCWR mediators are highly skilled
professionals who have the sensitivity, ex-
pertise, and flexibility to customize the me-
diation process to meet the concerns of the
parties. In short, the effectiveness of medi-
ation as a tool to resolve workplace disputes
cannot be understated. Under the CAA Re-
form Act, mediation still remains available,
but it is optional. It is no longer a jurisdic-
tional prerequisite to asserting claims under
the CAA, and it will take place only if re-
quested and only if both parties agree.
‘‘Cooling Off’’ Period
As stated above, the CAA presently re-
quires an employee to wait 30 days after me-
diation ends to pursue a formal administra-
tive complaint or a lawsuit in a U.S. District
Court. In her testimony before the CHA, Ex-
ecutive Director Grundmann conveyed the
Board’s recommendation that this period be
eliminated from the statute. The Reform Act
amendments do so.
As the changes set forth in the Reform Act
take effect, the Board will carefully monitor
their effectiveness and advise Congress of its
findings in this regard. In this Report, we
also highlight key recommendations that
the Board has made in past Section 102(b)
Reports that have not yet been implemented.
(see note 1.) We continue to believe that the
adoption of these recommendations, dis-
cussed below, will best promote a model
workplace in the legislative branch. The
Board welcomes an opportunity to further
discuss these recommendations and asks for
careful consideration of the requests by the
116th Congress.
Sincerely,
BARBARA CHILDS WALLACE,
Chair, Board of Direc-
tors.
BARBARA L. CAMENS.
ALAN V. FRIEDMAN.
ROBERTA L. HOLZWARTH.
SUSAN S. ROBFOGEL.
Recommendations for the 116th Congress
Apply the Wounded Warrior Federal Leave
Act of 2015 to the Legislative Branch
(Public Law 114–75)
The Wounded Warrior Federal Leave Act,
enacted in 2015, affords wounded warriors the
flexibility to receive medical care as they
transition to serving the nation in a new ca-
pacity. Specifically, new federal employees
who are also disabled veterans with a 30% or
more disability may receive 104 hours of
‘‘wounded warrior leave’’ during their first
year in the federal workforce so that they
may seek medical treatment for their serv-
ice-connected disabilities without being
forced to take unpaid leave or forego their
medical appointments. The Act was passed
as a way to show gratitude and deep appre-
ciation for the hardship and sacrifices of vet-
erans and, in particular wounded warriors, in
service to the United States. Although some
employing offices in the legislative branch
offer Wounded Warrior Federal Leave, the
Board reiterates the recommendation made
in its 2016 Section 102(b) Report to extend
the benefits of that Act to the legislative
branch with enforcement and implementa-
tion under the provisions of the CAA.
Approve the Board’s Pending Regulations
The CAA directs the OCWR to promulgate
regulations implementing the CAA to keep
Congress current and accountable to the
workplace laws that apply to private and
public employers. The Board is required to
amend its regulations to achieve parity, un-
less there is good cause shown to deviate
from the private sector or executive branch
regulations. The Board recommended in its
2016 section 102(b) Report to the 115th Con-
gress that it approve its pending regulations
that would implement the Family and Med-
ical Leave Act (FMLA), ADA titles II and III,
and the Uniformed Services Employment
and Reemployment Act (USERRA) in the
legislative branch. The Board-adopted regu-
lations ensure that same-sex spouses are rec-
ognized under the FMLA, in accordance with
Supreme Court rulings, and further extend
important protections for military care-
givers and service members. The Board’s
adopted ADA regulations will avoid costly
construction and contracting errors that re-
sult when there is uncertainty or ambiguity
regarding what standards apply, and will im-
prove access to Capitol Hill for visitors and
employees with disabilities. The Board of Di-
rectors also transmitted to Congress its
adopted USERRA regulations on December 3,
2008 and identified ‘‘good cause’’ to modify
the executive branch regulations to imple-
ment more effectively the rights and protec-
tions for veterans as applied to the Senate,
the House of Representatives, and the other
employing offices. These rules are necessary
to fulfill the commitments set forth in
USERRA to our nation’s veterans in the leg-
islative branch.
Analysis of Pending FMLA Regulations:
On June 22, 2016, the Board of Directors
adopted and transmitted to Congress for ap-
proval its regulations necessary for imple-
menting the FMLA in the legislative branch.
In accordance with the CAA, those regula-
tions are the same as the substantive regula-
tions adopted by the Secretary of Labor, 2
U.S.C. § 1312(d)(2), except where good cause
was shown that a modification would be
more effective in implementing FMLA rights
under the CAA. We seek congressional ap-
proval of these important FMLA regulations.
The FMLA regulations provide needed clar-
ity on important aspects of the law, includ-
ing essential requirements for certifying
leave and documentation, defining ‘‘spouse’’
to include same-sex spouses as required by
the Supreme Court precedent, and adding
military caregiver leave. Adoption of these
regulations will reduce uncertainty for both
employing offices and employees and provide
greater predictability in the congressional
workplace. First, these FMLA regulations
add the military leave provisions of the
FMLA, enacted under the National Defense
Authorization Acts (NDAA) for Fiscal Years
2008 and 2010 (see note 2), that extend the
availability of FMLA leave to family mem-
bers of the Regular Armed Forces for quali-
fying exigencies arising out of a service
member’s deployment. They also define
those deployments covered under these pro-
visions, extend FMLA military caregiver
leave for family members of current service
members to include an injury or illness that
existed prior to service and was aggravated
in the line of duty on active duty, and extend
FMLA military caregiver leave to family
members of certain veterans with serious in-
juries or illnesses. As noted, the FMLA
amendments providing additional rights and
protections for service members and their
families were enacted into law by the NDAA
for Fiscal Years 2008 and 2010. The congres-
sional committee reports that accompany
the NDAA for Fiscal Years 2008 and 2010 and
the amended FMLA provisions do not ‘‘de-
scribe the manner in which the provision of
the bill [relating to terms and conditions of
employment]... apply to the legislative
branch’’ or ‘‘include a statement of the rea-
sons the provision does not apply [to the leg-
islative branch]’’ (in the case of a provision
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.021 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1442 February 25, 2019
not applicable to the legislative branch), as
required by section 102(b)(3) of the CAA. (see
note 3)
Consequently, when the FMLA was amend-
ed to add these additional rights and protec-
tions, it was not clear whether Congress in-
tended that these additional rights and pro-
tections apply in the legislative branch. To
the extent that there may be an ambiguity
regarding the applicability to the legislative
branch of the 2008 and 2010 FMLA amend-
ments, the Board makes clear through these
regulations that the rights and protections
for military servicemembers apply in the
legislative branch, and that protections
under the CAA are in line with existing pub-
lic and private sector protections under the
FMLA. The Board-adopted FMLA regula-
tions implement leave protections of signifi-
cant importance to legislative branch em-
ployees and employing offices. Accordingly,
the Board recommends that Congress ap-
prove the Board’s adopted FMLA regula-
tions. Second, these regulations set forth the
revised definition of ‘‘spouse’’ under the
FMLA in light of the DOL’s February 25, 2015
Final Rule on the definition of spouse, and
the United States Supreme Court’s decision
in Obergefell v. Hodges (see note 4), which re-
quires a state to license a marriage between
two people of the same sex and to recognize
a marriage between two people of the same
sex when their marriage was lawfully li-
censed and performed out-of-state.
Analysis of Pending ADA Regulations:
Public access to Capitol Hill and con-
stituent access to district and state offices
has been a hallmark of many congresses. The
Board recommends that Congress approve its
adopted regulations implementing titles II
and III of the ADA to Capitol Hill and the
district offices. First, the Board’s ADA regu-
lations clarify which title II and title III reg-
ulations apply to the legislative branch. This
knowledge will undoubtedly save taxpayers
money by ensuring pre-construction review
of construction projects for ADA compli-
ance—rather than providing for only post-
construction inspections and costly redos
when the access is not adequate. Second,
under the regulations adopted by the Board,
all leased spaces must meet some basic ac-
cessibility requirements that apply to all
federal facilities that are leased or con-
structed. In this way, Congress will remain a
model for ADA compliance and public access.
Under the authority of the landmark CAA,
the OOC has made significant progress to-
wards making Capitol Hill more accessible
for persons with disabilities. Our efforts to
improve access to the buildings and facilities
on the campus are consistent with the pri-
ority guidance in the Board’s ADA regula-
tions, which it adopted in February 2016.
Congressional approval of those regulations
would reaffirm its commitment to provide
barrier-free access to the visiting public to
the Capitol Hill complex.
Analysis of Pending USERRA Regulations:
On December 3, 2008, the Board of Directors
adopted USERRA regulations to apply to the
legislative branch. Those regulations, trans-
mitted to Congress over 10 years ago, should
be immediately approved. They support our
nation’s veterans by requiring continuous
health care insurance and job protections for
the men and women of the service who have
supported our country’s freedoms. The 114th
Congress was particularly focused on issues
concerning veterans’ health, welfare, access,
and employment status. Approving the
USERRA regulations will assist service
members in attaining and retaining a job de-
spite the call to duty. The regulations com-
mit to anti-discrimination, anti-retaliation,
and job protection under USERRA. Approv-
ing USERRA regulations would signal con-
gressional encouragement to veterans to
seek work in the legislative branch where
veteran employment levels have historically
been well below the percentage in the execu-
tive branch, or even in the private sector,
which is not under a mandate to provide a
preference in hiring to veterans. Indeed,
many reports have put the level of veteran
employees on congressional staffs at two to
three percent or less. The Veterans Congres-
sional Fellowship Caucus, started in 2014, has
supported efforts to bridge the gap between
military service and legislative work. In ad-
dition, the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Pro-
gram exists in the House Chief Administra-
tive Officer (CAO) where Members can hire
veteran fellows for 2-year terms. In the Sen-
ate, the Armed Forces Internship Program
exists to provide on-the-job training for re-
turning veterans with disabilities. An exten-
sion of these laudable efforts should include
the long-delayed passage of the Board’s
adopted USERRA regulations which imple-
ment protections for initial hiring and pro-
tect against discrimination based on mili-
tary service. Congress can lead by example
by applying the USERRA law encompassed
in the CAA.
Approving the three sets of Board-adopted
regulations outlined above would not only
signify a commitment to the laws of the
CAA—which passed in 1995 with nearly unan-
imous, bi-cameral, and bipartisan support—
but would further help legislative branch
managers effectively implement the laws’
protections and benefits on behalf of the
workforce.
Protect Employees and Applicants Who Are
or Have Been in Bankruptcy (11 U.S.C.
§ 525)
Section 525(a) of title 11 of the U.S. Code
provides that ‘‘a governmental unit’’ may
not deny employment to, terminate the em-
ployment of, or discriminate with respect to
employment against, a person because that
person is or has been a debtor under the
bankruptcy statutes. This provision cur-
rently does not apply to the legislative
branch. Reiterating the recommendations
made in the 1996, 1998, 2000 and 2006 Section
102(b) reports, the Board advises that the
rights and protections against discrimina-
tion on this basis should be applied to em-
ploying offices within the legislative branch.
Prohibit Discharge of Employees Who Are or
Have Been Subject to Garnishment (15
U.S.C. § 1674(A))
Section 1674(a) of title 15 of the U.S. Code
prohibits discharge of any employee because
his or her earnings ‘‘have been subject to
garnishment for any one indebtedness.’’ This
section is limited to private employers, so it
currently has no application to the legisla-
tive branch. For the reasons set forth in the
1996, 1998, 2000 and 2006 Section 102(b) Re-
ports, the Board recommends that the rights
and protections against discrimination on
this basis should be applied to employing of-
fices within the legislative branch.
Provide Whistleblower Protections to the
Legislative Branch
Civil service law provides broad protection
to whistleblowers in the executive branch to
safeguard workers against reprisal for re-
porting violations of laws, rules, or regula-
tions, gross mismanagement, gross waste of
funds, abuse of authority, or a substantial
and specific danger to public health or safe-
ty. In the private sector, whistleblowers also
are often protected by provisions of specific
federal laws. However, these provisions do
not apply to the legislative branch. The
OCWR has received a number of inquiries
from congressional employees concerned
about the lack of whistleblower protections.
The absence of specific statutory protection
such as that provided under 5 U.S.C.
§ 2302(b)(8) chills the disclosure of such infor-
mation. Granting whistleblower protection
could significantly improve the rights and
protections afforded to legislative branch
employees in an area fundamental to the in-
stitutional integrity of the legislative
branch by uncovering waste and fraud and
safeguarding the budget.
The Board has recommended in its pre-
vious Section 102(b) reports and continues to
recommend that Congress provide whistle-
blower reprisal protections to legislative
branch employees comparable to that pro-
vided to executive branch employees under 5
U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8), and 5 U.S.C. § 1221. Addi-
tionally, as discussed below, the Board rec-
ommends that the Office also be granted in-
vestigatory and prosecutorial authority over
whistleblower reprisal complaints, by incor-
porating into the CAA the authority granted
to the Office of Special Counsel, which inves-
tigates and prosecutes claims of whistle-
blower reprisal in the executive branch.
Provide Subpoena Authority to Obtain Infor-
mation Needed for Safety & Health Inves-
tigations and Require Records To Be
Kept of Workplace Injuries and Illnesses
The CAA applies the broad protections of
section 5 of the Occupational Safety and
Health Act (OSHAct) to the congressional
workplace. The OCWR enforces the OSHAct
in the legislative branch much in the same
way the Secretary of Labor enforces the
OSHAct in the private sector. Under the
CAA, the OCWR is required to conduct safety
and health inspections of covered employing
offices at least once each Congress and in re-
sponse to any request, and to provide em-
ploying offices with technical assistance to
comply with the OSHAct’s requirements.
But Congress and its agencies are still ex-
empt from critical OSHAct requirements im-
posed upon American businesses. Under the
CAA, employing offices in the legislative
branch are not subject to investigative sub-
poenas to aid in inspections as are private
sector employers under the OSHAct. Simi-
larly, Congress exempted itself from the
OSHAct’s recordkeeping requirements per-
taining to workplace injuries and illnesses
that apply to the private sector. The Board
recommends that legislative branch employ-
ing offices be subject to the investigatory
subpoena provisions contained in OSHAct
§ 8(b) and that legislative branch employing
offices be required to keep records of work-
place injuries and illnesses under OSHAct
§ 8(c), 29 U.S.C. § 657(c).
Adopt Recordkeeping Requirements Under
Federal Workplace Rights Laws
The Board, in several Section 102(b) re-
ports, has recommended and continues to
recommend that Congress adopt all record-
keeping requirements under Federal work-
place rights laws, including title VII. Al-
though some employing offices in the legis-
lative branch keep personnel records, there
are no legal requirements under the CAA to
do so.
ENDNOTES
1. The Board has long advocated for legislation
granting the OCWR General Counsel the authority
to investigate and prosecute complaints of discrimi-
nation, harassment and reprisal in order to assist
victims and to improve the adjudicatory process
under the CAA. As discussed in this Report, the Re-
form Act establishes new procedures that are also
clearly intended to further these policy goals. Under
these circumstances, the Board believes that the
best course of action is to evaluate the efficacy of
the new Reform Act procedures once they have been
implemented before revisiting the issue of whether
the OCRW General Counsel should be granted such
investigatory and prosecutorial authority. Accord-
ingly, this recommendation is not discussed further
below.
2. Pub. L. 110–181, Div. A, Title V § 585(a)(2), (3)(A)–
(D) and Pub. L. 111–84, Div. A, Title V § 565(a)(1)(B)
and (4).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.021 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1443
February 25, 2019
3. U.S.C. § 1302(3); House Committee on Armed
Services, H. Rpt. 110–146 (May 11, 2007), H. Rpt. 111–
166 (June 18, 2009)
4. Obergefell v. Hodges, 135 S. Ct. 2584 (2015).
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 26, 2018
Mr. ALEXANDER. There appears to
be no one on the floor who wants to
speak. I could go another 4 or 5 hours
if the Senate would like to stay in ses-
sion.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that when the Senate completes
its business today, it adjourn until 10
a.m., Tuesday, February 26; further,
that following the prayer and pledge,
the morning hour be deemed expired
and the Journal of proceedings be ap-
proved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, and morning business be
closed; that the Senate proceed to ex-
ecutive session and resume consider-
ation of the Miller nomination; fur-
ther, that the Senate recess from 12:30
p.m. until 2:15 p.m. to allow for the
weekly conference meetings; finally,
that all time during recess, adjourn-
ment, morning business, and leader re-
marks count postcloture on the Miller
nomination.
Is there objection?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. ALEXANDER. If there is no fur-
ther business to come before the Sen-
ate, I ask unanimous consent that it
stand adjourned under the previous
order.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:46 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, February 26,
2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
BRIAN MCGUIRE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A DEPUTY
UNDER SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, VICE ANDREW K.
MALONEY, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DAVID MICHAEL SATTERFIELD, OF MISSOURI, A CA-
REER MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE,
CLASS OF CAREER MINISTER, TO BE AMBASSADOR EX-
TRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
CHAD F. WOLF, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNDER SECRETARY
FOR STRATEGY, POLICY, AND PLANS, DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY. (NEW POSITION)
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
MICHAEL ERIC WOOTEN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR FOR FEDERAL PROCUREMENT POLICY, VICE
ANNE E. RUNG, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
MICHAEL D. BAUGHMAN, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT
OF PENNSYLVANIA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS,
VICE STEVEN R. FRANK, TERM EXPIRED.
WILLIAM TRAVIS BROWN, JR., OF LOUISIANA, TO BE
UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT
OF LOUISIANA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE
KEVIN CHARLES HARRISON, TERM EXPIRED.
GARY B. BURMAN, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KEN-
TUCKY FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE JAMES ED-
WARD CLARK, RESIGNED.
WING CHAU, OF RHODE ISLAND, TO BE UNITED STATES
MARSHAL FOR THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND FOR
THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE JAMIE A. HAINSWORTH,
TERM EXPIRED.
RAMONA L. DOHMAN, OF MINNESOTA, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA
FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE SHARON JEA-
NETTE LUBINSKI, RETIRED.
ERIC S. GARTNER, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
PENNSYLVANIA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE
DAVID BLAKE WEBB, TERM EXPIRED.
NICK EDWARD PROFFITT, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIR-
GINIA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE ROBERT
WILLIAM MATHIESON, TERM EXPIRED.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. STEVEN L. BASHAM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. STEVEN J. BUTOW
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. KAREN H. GIBSON
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) JAMES P. DOWNEY
REAR ADM. (LH) SHANE G. GAHAGAN
REAR ADM. (LH) FRANCIS D. MORLEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. RONALD A. BOXALL
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
JEREMIAH L. BLACKBURN
JEREMY S. CAUDILL
ASA C. CHUNG
LUCAS H. DALGLEISH
MANUEL D. DUARTE
HENRY HYUN HAHM
KENNIE T. NEAL
JASON D. RAINES
ROBERT D. ROSE
JOSHUA D. RUMSEY
DARREL L. SCHRADER
TIMOTHY D. WARF
THOMAS A. WEBB
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OFFI-
CER FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN
THE RESERVE OF THE AIR FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.
S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be colonel
THOMAS D. CRIMMINS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
THOMAS JOSEPH ALFORD
BRADLEY A. AMYS
GRAHAM H. BERNSTEIN
JOHN H. BONE
ELIJAH FRANCIS BROWN
MARK CLIFFORD BRUEGGER
BRIAN CHARLES CALL
SARA JOY CARRASCO
JEFFREY ALLAN DAVIS
SARAH WILLIAMS EDMUNDSON
EVAN ALLEN EPSTEIN
CHAD THOMAS EVANS
SATURA MCPHERSON GABRIEL
JASON E. GAMMONS
JEFFREY BEVAN GARBER
CHRISTOPHER J. GOEWERT
TIMOTHY GOINES
MARK ANDREW GOLDEN
DUSTIN L. GRANT
DAVID R. GROENDYK
BENJAMIN RUSSELL HENLEY
NATHANIEL GLENN HIMERT
ELGIN D. HORNE
DAPHNE LASALLE JACKSON
WILLIAM JESSE LADUKE
KURT ALAN MABIS
MARC PHILLIP MALLONE
NATHAN H. MAYENSCHEIN
ERIC M. MCCUTCHEN
ELIZABETH ANNA MCDANIEL
MATTHEW JOSHUA NEIL
JOSHUA BRYAN NETTINGA
SALEEM SYED RAZVI
DAVID M. REDMOND, JR.
NICKLAUS JAMES REED
LAURA LANTZY RODGERS
THOMAS ANDREW SMITH
DUSTIN MARCELLUS TIPLING
NICHOLE MARIE TORRES
BRANT FREDERICK WHIPPLE
JOSHUA CURTIS WILLIAMS
AARON ALLEN WILSON
GABRIEL MATTHEW YOUNG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
SHAWN C. BISHOP
HEATHER A. BODWELL
RANDY A. CROFT
STEVEN R. CUNEIO
DENNIS U. DEGUZMAN
RALPH T. ELLIOTT, JR.
JAMES M. HENDRICK
KYLE A. HUNDLEY
BRADLEY L. KIMBLE
JOEL D. KORNEGAY
MARK B. MCKELLEN
JOSHUA N. PAYNE
KATHERINE M. SCOTT
TRAVIS N. SEARS
STEVEN L. SURVANCE
CHRISTIAN L. WILLIAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
MICHELL A. ARCHEBELLE
ARTEMUS ARMAS
MARY J. BERNHEIM
JENNIFER J. BRATZ
KEVIN M. COX
MISCHA A. DANSBY
REBECCA S. ELLIOTT
KATHLEEN MYERS GRIMM
DALE E. HARRELL
RACHELLE J. HARTZE
JACQUELINE M. KILLIAN
LAURA J. LEWIS
RUTH A. MONSANTO WILLIAMS
SHELLEY A. SHELTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
PETER N. FISCHER
DAVID W. KELLEY
CHRISTOPHER M. LAPACK
MICHAEL S. NEWTON
GLENNDON E. PAGE, JR.
JONATHAN H. WADE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
BRIAN M. ALEXANDER
MICHAEL C. ALFARO
CARLOS L. ALFORD
PAMELA A. ALLEY
RUSSELL P. ALLISON
MATTHEW R. ALTMAN
DAVID R. ANDERSON
SHANON E. ANDERSON
CRAIG R. ANDRLE
DAVID K. ARAGON
MICHELLE M. ARTOLACHIPE
NEIL O. AURELIO
SHAWN R. AYERS
BRIAN T. BACKMAN
DONNY LYNN BAGWELL
BLAINE L. BAKER
KRISTEN D. BAKOTIC
LEE E. BALLARD, JR.
BRIAN P. BALLEW
CHARITY A. BANKS
CHARLES D. BARKHURST
JASON R. BARNES
PATRICK H. BAUM
STEVEN D. BAUMAN
STEVEN M. BEATTIE II
BRANDON M. BEAUCHAN
BECKY M. BEERS
CHRISTOPHER P. BELL
JASON B. BELL
JEREMY S. BERGIN
MATTHEW O. BERRY
JOHN R. BEURER
JOSEPH M. BIEDENBACH
LISA M. BIEWER
ADAM DEWAIN BINGHAM
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.021 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1444 February 25, 2019
DENNIS R. BIRCHENOUGH
ALLISON K. BLACK
BRETT T. BLACK
ROBERT B. BLAKE
JACK A. BLALOCK
JEFFREY A. BLANKENSHIP
DAVID B. BLAU
HEATHER BRANDT BOGSTIE
RYAN M. BOHNER
ROBERT J. BONNER
JOHN F. BOROWSKI
DOUGLAS J. BOUTON
AARON J. BOYD
SEAN S. BRAMMERHOGAN
MARVIN T. BRANAN
KEVIN R. BRAY
MATTHEW SEAN BRENNAN
BRADLEY M. BREWINGTON
MARC A. BROCK
TONYA J. BRONSON
CORY L. BROWN
DAWSON A. BRUMBELOW
JEFFREY A. BURDETTE
JONATHAN E. BURDICK
KENNETH R. BURTON, JR.
RICHARD J. BUSH, JR.
KEITH J. BUTLER
LUKE B. CASPER
CHRISTOPHER R. CASSEM
DAVID A. CASTOR
ALEXANDER CASTRO
ERICK J. CASTRO
BRIAN C. CHELLGREN
DOMINIC V. CHIAPUSIO
CORY R. CHRISTOFFER
GEOFFREY I. CHURCH
CHRISTOPHER G. CLARK
JAMES M. CLARK
STEVEN A. CLARK
CHARLES A. CLEGG
SUMMER A. CLOVIS
RYAN M. COLBURN
MATTHEW F. COLEMAN
BRIAN P. COLLINS
WILLIAM T. COLLINS
NATHAN T. COLUNGA
CORY A. COOK
DANIEL J. CORDES
DANIEL L. CORNELIUS
JAMES RONALD COUGHLIN
LAUREN COURCHAINE
LELAND K. COWIE
ERIC W. CROWELL
RYAN A. CROWLEY
GEORGE M. CUNDIFF, JR.
JAMES H. DAILEY
CORY M. DAMON
ROBERT WILLIAM DAVIS
GEOFFREY D. DAWSON
KENNETH L. DECKER, JR.
MONIQUE C. DELAUTER
NATHAN P. DILLER
IAN M. DINESEN
NICHOLAS M. DIPOMA
ALAN F. DOCAUER
MEGHAN B. DOHERTY
MICHAEL S. DOHERTY
JEFFREY A. DONHAUSER
GARY L. DONOVAN
MICHAEL J. DOOLEY
ERIK N. DUNN
BRANDON C. DURANT
CHESLEY L. DYCUS
WESLEY B. EAGLE
JOHN R. ECHOLS
JOSEPH S. ELKINS
ANDREW J. EMERY
KIRBY M. ENSSER
JOSEPH R. EWING
ELIZABETH J. EYCHNER
EMILY E. FARKAS
ERICKA S. FARMERHILL
PATRICK F. FARRELL
JAMES R. FEE, JR.
CHRISTOPHER A. FERNENGEL
PAUL P. FIDLER
DANIEL E. FINKELSTEIN
SEAN M. FINNAN
KATHRYN E. FITZGERALD
BARY D. FLACK
RYAN W. FLEISHAUER
LARRY B. FLETCHER, JR.
GARRY S. FLOYD
BRIAN M. FLUSCHE
PHILIP M. FORBES
JASON M. FORD
RICHARD B. FOSTER
DOUGLAS J. FOWLER
TYLER P. FRANDER
NIKKI RENEE FRANKINO
RYAN PAUL FRAZIER
CHARLES M. FREEL
PAUL B. FREEMAN
GEOFFREY S. FUKUMOTO
NICOLE E. FULLER
ALLISON M. GALFORD
JOHN B. GALLEMORE
DANIEL A. GALLTON
BRIAN J. GAMBLE
FRED E. GARCIA
DARIUS V. GARVIDA
JULIE M. GAULIN
MICHAEL P. GERANIS
MATTHEW C. GETTY
JAMES B. GHERDOVICH
AARON D. GIBSON
AMY M. GLISSON
JASON J. GLYNN
CHRISTOPHER R. GOAD
DAVID P. GOODE
VANCE GOODFELLOW
JOHN T. GOODSON III
RANDEL J. GORDON
RYAN E. GORECKI
JONATHAN W. GRAHAM
CHRISTOPHER P. GRAVES
ANDREW J. GRIFFIN
KEVIN S. GRISWOLD
ERIN R. GULDEN
EDWARD J. GUSSMAN III
JOHN M. GUSTAFSON
JUNG H. HA
MICHAEL J. HAGAN
MARY C. HAGUE
JOHN M. HALE
RUSSELL J. HALL
NILS E. HALLBERG, JR.
JAMES R. HAMILTON
ELIZABETH A. HANSON
JOHN P. HEIDENREICH
TIMOTHY M. HELFRICH
JAIME I. HERNANDEZ
WILLIAM R. HERSCH
DANIEL S. HOADLEY
CALVIN C. HODGSON
TIMOTHY J. HOFMAN
RICHARD N. HOLIFIELD, JR.
JEFFREY G. HOLLAND
CORY S. HOLLON
PATRICE O. HOLMES
TERRANCE J. HOLMES
MATTHEW EARL HOLSTON
TIMOTHY N. HOOD
TRAVIS G. HOWELL
MARCUS D. JACKSON
KEVIN M. JAMIESON
ROMEL L. JARAMILLO
HENRY R. JEFFRESS
JEFFREY T. JENNINGS
MARTIN T. JENNINGS
JASON D. JENSEN
TODD M. JENSEN
JORGE I. JIMENEZ
JOSE E. JIMENEZ, JR.
JUSTIN L. JOFFRION
ROBERT W. JOHNSON
MARK S. JONES
PAUL R. JONES
KATHY LYNNE JORDAN
WILLIAM F. JULIAN
ALISON L. KAMATARIS
JASON P. KANE
JOHN B. KELLEY
RICHARD CARROL KIEFFER
BARRY A. KING II
JASON M. KING
SCOTT L. KLEMPNER
RYAN T. KNAPP
DEANE R. KONOWICZ
BRIAN C. KREITLOW
JAMES H. KRISCHKE
KENNETH P. KUEBLER
JOHN KURIAN
KALLIROI LAGONIK LANDRY
NATHAN P. LANG
PATRICK R. LAUNEY
DAVID A. LEACH
ROBERT H. LEE, JR.
TYLER E. LEWIS
PETER J. LEX
SCOTT C. LINCK
RONALD M. LLANTADA
MICHELE A. LOBIANCO
JASON K. LOE
HECTOR G. LOPEZ
EDMUND X. LOUGHRAN II
PETER J. LUECK
JONATHAN E. LUMINATI
CHRIS D. LUNDY
PATRICK O. MADDOX
KEVIN M. MADRIGAL
MICHAEL D. MAGINNESS
ANGELINA M. MAGUINNESS
ROBERT M. MAMMENGA
FREDERICK W. MANUEL
EDWIN J. MARKIE, JR.
GARY R. MARLOWE
MICHAEL A. MARSICEK
RICHARD W. MARTIN, JR.
JAMES H. MASONER, JR.
MARK A. MASSARO
TIMOTHY R. MATLOCK
ANDREA R. MAUGERI
BRIAN P. MAYER
JAMAAL E. MAYS
ANTHONY S. MCCARTY
BRYON E. C. MCCLAIN
JOHN C. MCCLUNG
DANIEL C. MCCRARY
MATTHEW W. MCDANIEL
TAMMY L. MCELHANEY
KENNETH C. MCGHEE
MARK MCGILL
SCOTT D. MCKEEVER
JOHN M. MCQUADE
ROBERT G. MEADOWS II
CHRISTOPHER B. MEEKER
JOHN M. MEHRMAN
JAMES K. MEIER
ERIN P. MEINDERS
JASON B. MELLO
SHELLY L. MENDIETA
BENJAMIN D. MENGES
SETH A. MILLER
SCOTT C. MILLS
JASON M. MITCHELL
JASON P. MOBLEY
TIMOTHY A. MONROE
CECILIA I. MONTES DE OCA
TYTONIA S. MOORE
SIRENA I. MORRIS
PHILIP G. MORRISON
TYLER W. MORTON
ROBERT J. MOSCHELLA
KURT E. MULLER
STEVEN L. NAPIER
SEAN B. NEITZKE
JARED C. NELSON
KATHRYN M. NELSON
KRISTEN A. NEMISH
BRENT M. NESTOR
MARK D. NEWELL
CHAD R. NICHOLS
SHARON A. NICKELBERRY
RYAN J. NOVOTNY
CELINA E. NOYES
RYAN D. NUDI
RYAN S. NYE
BENJAMIN C. OAKES
WILLIAM H. OBRIEN IV
ANGELA F. OCHOA
VINCENT J. OCONNOR
CAROL L. ONEIL
BRENDA A. OPPEL
BRAD E. ORGERON
KEVIN J. OSBORNE
KYLE F. OYAMA
MARTIN J. PANTAZE
SCOTTY A. PENDLEY
JEFFREY A. PESKE
MALCOLM N. PHARR
JENNIFER A. PHELPS
DENNIS L. PHILLIPS
CANDICE LINETTE PIPES
JEFFREY W. PIXLEY
BYRON R. POMPA
DOYLE A. POMPA
BILLY E. POPE, JR.
CHRISTOPHER M. PORTELE
JACOB D. PORTER
CALVIN B. POWELL
JOHN R. POWERS
BRADLEY B. PRESTON
KEVIN M. PRITZ
KYLE J. PUMROY
ERICA K. RABE
SCOTT R. RALEIGH
BRIAN D. RANDOLPH
TODD E. RANDOLPH
JAMES D. REAVES
ROY P. RECKER
JEREMY R. REEVES
MATTHEW H. REYNOLDS
OLIVER I. RICK
BROOKE A. RINEHART
MEGHAN M. RIPPLE
TIMOTHY J. RITCHIE
JOSHUA H. ROCKHILL
ANDREW L. RODDAN
H. WARREN ROHLFS
DAVID J. ROSS
DORENE BETSY J. ROSS
CHRISTOPHER T. RUBIANO
LOUIS J. RUSCETTA
NATHAN L. RUSIN
ANTHONY J. SALVATORE
DONALD J. SANDBERG
JEREMY C. SAUNDERS
MICHAEL J. SCALES
MEGAN A. SCHAFER
R. ERIC SCHMIDT
RONALD D. SCHOCHENMAIER
JASON N. SCHRAMM
ROBERT J. SCHREINER
NICHOLE K. A. SCOTT
THOMAS E. SEGARS, JR.
ANTHONY T. SHAFER, JR.
PHILLIP A. SHEA
FRANKLIN C. SHIFFLETT
MICHAEL J. SHREVES
ANDREW J. SHURTLEFF
JOEL A. SLOAN
NISHAWN S. SMAGH
DOMENIC SMERAGLIA
BERNARD C. SMITH
KRISTOFFER R. SMITH
MARIE E. SMITH
PHILIP D. SMITH
STEVE A. SMITH
JUSTIN B. SPEARS
TODD C. SPRISTER
BRIAN T. STAHL
JOHN C. STALLWORTH
CHADWICK J. STERR
TIMOTHY J. STEVENS
WILLIAM F. STORMS
DANY MARK STRAKOS
MATTHEW J. SWANSON
ROBERT G. SWIECH
BRIAN R. TAVERNIER
DAVID M. TAYLOR
ROBERT M. TAYLOR
VAN T. THAI
PAUL A. THERIOT
JOHN G. THIEN
STEVEN E. TOFTE
ERIC D. TRIAS
LAYNE D. TROSPER
JONATHAN E. TUCKER
RAYMUNDO O. TULIER
BRADY J. VAIRA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.023 S25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1445
February 25, 2019
TERENCE J. VANCE
DAVID D. VANDERBURG
JOSEPH M. VANONI
JOHN D. VARILEK
RICHARD G. VASQUEZ
ROBERT P. VICARS IV
KENNETH J. VOIGT, JR.
MATTHEW R. VOLLKOMMER
ERWIN T. WAIBEL
CHRISTOPHER V. WALKER
MARC A. WALKER
JEREMY L. WALLER
MIA L. WALSH
DANIEL T. WALTER
STEVEN L. WATTS II
DARREN P. WEES
KARL WEINBRECHT
RYAN P. WEISIGER
ERICK O. WELCOME
PETER J. WHITE
BERNABE F. WHITFIELD
JASON A. WHITTLE
JEREMY E. WILLIAMS
PHELEMON T. WILLIAMS
STUART A. WILLIAMSON
DAVID J. WILSON
AARON N. WILT
ERIC A. WINTERBOTTOM
THOMAS B. WOLFE
CARL F. WOOD
TRAVIS L. WOODWORTH
TAD W. WOOLFE
JASON M. WORK
JASON T. WRIGHT
MICHAEL C. WYATT
SCOTT T. YEATMAN
MELISSA L. YOUDERIAN
JOHN F. ZOHN, JR.
JASON C. ZUMWALT
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
DENTAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be colonel
JASON BULLOCK
LLENA C. CALDWELL
PAUL COLTHIRST
CYNTHIA V. FELEPPA
THOMAS M. JOHNSON
YOUNG S. KANG
DENNIS J. KANTANEN
CHARLES C. LAMBERT
MICHAEL R. MANSELL
WADE H. OWENS
MANUEL PELAEZ
CONSTANCE L. SEDON
THOMAS STARK
LEWIS WAYT
DEMETRES WILLIAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be colonel
JULIE A. AKE
JOSEPH F. ALDERETE, JR.
JARED M. ANDREWS
ALISON L. BATIG
KRISTEN M. BAUER
AMIT K. BHAVSAR
BRANDON D. BROWN
JACOB F. COLLEN
JEANCLAUDE G. DALLEYRAND
PATRICK DEPENBROCK
JAY M. DINTAMAN
JUSTIN P. DODGE
DAVID M. DOMAN
ELIZABETH H. DUQUE
TRACY L. EICHEL
DAVID ESCOBEDO
PAUL M. FAESTEL
KATHLEEN M. FLOCKE
DANIEL J. GALLAGHER
RUSSELL GIESE
MATTHEW B. HARRISON
JOSHUA D. HARTZELL
GUYON J. HILL
MATTHEW S. HING
SEAN J. HIPP
MICHAEL C. HJELKREM
JOSEPH HUDAK
STEPHEN P. HYLAND
YANG E. KAO
KEVIN M. KELLY
DANIEL E. KIM
JEFFREY S. KUNZ
JASON S. LANHAM
MATTHEW A. LAUDIE
MARK Y. LEE
ERIK K. LUNDMARK
JAN I. MABY
MICHAEL B. MADKINS
KATHARINE W. MARKELL
DANIRA H. MAYES
JOHN J. MCPHERSON
NIA R. MIDDLETON
GEORGE R. MOUNT
THORNTON MU
LEON J. NESTI
WILLIAM D. OCONNELL
MICHEAL A. ODLE
BRUCE A. ONG
JONATHAN R. PARKS
CHRISTOPHER T. PERRY
WYLAN C. PETERSON
ERIC PRYOR
JASON A. REGULES
ANGEL M. REYES
JAMIE C. RIESBERG
JEFFREY L. ROBERTSON
KIMBERLY C. SALAZAR
DENNIS M. SARMIENTO
DAVID J. SCHWARTZ
CARL G. SKINNER
FREDERICK L. STEPHENS
JOSEPH R. STERBIS
TOIHUNTA STUBBS
GUY H. TAKAHASHI
SCOT A. TEBO
WESLEY M. THEURER
JOHN E. THOMAS
DAWN M. TORRES
KYLE WALKER
KATRINA E. WALTERS
JAMES A. WATTS
MICHAEL A. WIGGINS
JOSHUA S. WILL
GARY H. WYNN
D013176
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant colonel
P. J. FOX
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
NATHAN M. CLAYTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ADAM P. JAMES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT TO
THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be colonel
JASON S. BAKER
BRETT D. BASLER
PAUL R. BOYD
SEAN T. BOYETTE
VERNON A. CHANDLER
MATTHEW W. COOPER
MICHAEL V. CRAWFORD
JOHN D. DEMENT
JAMES J. DEVERTEUIL
EDWARD K. DION
JON C. EISBERG
ERIK A. FESSENDEN
ANDREW D. GOLDIN
EVERETT R. GRIFFEY
STEVEN C. GUST
DOUGLAS P. HUEY
ANDREW A. INCH
MICHELLE JARAMILLO
COLBY C. JENKINS
GEORGE C. KRAEHE
JEFFREY M. LAING
MARK E. LENHART
MICHAEL J. LIESMANN
KIM S. MCGHEE
MARK S. PONTIF
DANIEL F. PUGH
SARAH D. SMITH
KRISTA M. SORIA
MURRAY M. THOMPSON
STEPHEN E. WALKER
TUNSTALL I. WILSON
MICHAEL A. WUNN
RICHARD J. ZEIGLER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
SHELIA R. DAY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
ROBERT D. COPE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
WILLIAM C. MITCHELL
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
MICHEAL K. WAGNER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
JASON T. STEPP
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
STEPHEN C. PLEW
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
MICHAEL D. KRISMAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
MICHAEL J. CIRIVELLO
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
ZACHARY J. CONLEY
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A25FE6.025 S25FEPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E199
February 25, 2019
REMEMBERING DR. MARY LACEY
HON. BRADLEY SCOTT SCHNEIDER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the remarkable life of Dr. Mary
Lacey, a pillar of our community who passed
away this month at the age of 80.
Dr. Lacey made an indelible mark on our
communities by tirelessly serving those at the
margins. Across Lake County, children in
need, the homeless, and inmates and their
families directly benefited from her generosity
and boundless energy.
Dr. Lacey broke multiple barriers throughout
her life. She was born to humble beginnings,
as one of ten children in rural Mississippi. At
age 21 she moved to Florida to further her
education, where she met her late husband
William, and eventually settled in his home-
town of Waukegan. She found work as a con-
tractor at Naval Station Great Lakes as well as
handmaking elegant hats.
Never one to rest, she continued to study
and was ordained a pastor, became a foster
parent, and earned a certificate in social work.
In Waukegan, her memory lives on as the
namesake of Mary’s Mission, a homeless
shelter she founded that has provided shelter
to hundreds of individuals in times of need,
and has helped them develop the job training
and skills they need to get back on their feet
and live independently.
Dr. Lacey was also a fierce advocate for
children, bringing joy to young residents during
the holidays. She teamed up with the Wau-
kegan police department to start a toy give-
away program for children who might not re-
ceive a gift during the holidays. I had the privi-
lege to join several of her annual Christmas
parades from Mary’s Mission to the Lake
County jail, where she handed out turkeys and
toys.
Her perseverance in helping vulnerable peo-
ple, touched and improved the lives of count-
less Illinoisans. Dr. Lacey truly lived her faith
every day, and she will be sorely missed. I ex-
tend my heartfelt condolences to her many
family and friends who are mourning her pass-
ing.
f
COMMAND WARRANT OFFICER
FIVE SEFER STEVE IMERAJ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Command
Warrant Officer Five Sefer Steve Imeraj on his
retirement.
CW5 Sefer Steve Imeraj was the 6th Com-
mand Chief Warrant Officer (CCWO) for the
Colorado Army National Guard, appointed in
November 2014. Steve retired after 36 years
of service in the active U.S. Army and the Col-
orado Army National Guard. He graduated
from Colorado State University in Ft. Collins
with a B.A. in Political Science and a minor in
History.
CW5 Sefer Steve Imeraj is a son of Alba-
nian immigrants and enlisted out of Detroit,
Michigan into the active US Army in 1982.
After serving three years with the 1–29 Field
Artillery (Nuclear Surety Cohort) Battalion, he
enlisted into the COARNG in 1985 with the 2/
157th FA BN in Colorado Springs. In 1988,
Steve transferred to HHD Headquarters State
Area Command and worked various assign-
ments in the Military Personnel Office until he
pinned as an AG Warrant Officer One/HR
Tech in February 1992.
Later in his career, CW5 Sefer Steve Imeraj
mobilized and deployed to Iraq with the 2/
135th GSAB (General Support Aviation Bat-
talion) from March 2006 until September 2007
in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. During
his combat deployment, he served as the As-
sistance S1 and was later detailed as the AV
BN Battle Captain for all combat missions for
the COARNG 2/135th GSAB. I am grateful for
CW5 Imeraj’s brief service in my office and to
the constituents of the 7th Congressional Dis-
trict, but I am most grateful for his service to
our country.
Steve is married to Victoria and is a proud
father of five sons, and grandfather of three
granddaughters. I want to extend my deepest
gratitude and congratulations to Command
Warrant Officer Five Sefer Steve Imeraj.
f
NICK GRAY TRIBUTE
HON. SCOTT R. TIPTON
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. TIPTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Nick Gray of Olathe, Colorado, a
World War II veteran of Pearl Harbor and
Guadalcanal Campaign who recently cele-
brated his 100th birthday.
Nick is the grandson of Judge John Gray,
who took up a homestead in the Shavano Val-
ley in 1884, became Mayor of Montrose, and
received local acclaim for working to get the
Gunnison Tunnel built during his time as a
District Judge. Judge Gray’s son, Joe Gray,
was Nick’s father. Nick grew up on the family
ranch his grandfather built with his mother
Addie Hobson, his father, and the rest of his
siblings .
In 1940, Nick left his family’s ranch and vol-
unteered to serve in the Army. He was sta-
tioned at Pearl Harbor with the 25th Infantry
Division when the Japanese attacked on De-
cember 7, 1941. While overseas he built roads
and bridges on Guadalcanal in the South Pa-
cific and managed a crew of 25 natives who
had been bombed out by Japanese forces.
After his service was complete, he used his
military education to build his ranching oper-
ation back home in Colorado and ultimately
created the Nick Gray Construction Company.
As a small business owner, he built more
than 3,000 miles of power line rights-of-way
and roads across three states. In 1963, Nick
cleared 220 miles for power line structure
sites, building sub-station sites and roads from
Wyoming to New Mexico. Another one of
Nick’s major accomplishments was building
the Purgatory Ski Area near Durango, Colo-
rado. Nick built the parking lot, ski course, and
by-pass road all the way to Hermosa Park.
During the 129-day project, he blasted nearly
40,000 yards of rock.
Nick married his wife Margaret in June
1946, and they had a son, Stephen Gray. Nick
and Margaret have two granddaughters, Ni-
cole Lumsden and Lezlee Cox, and six great-
grandchildren, Keith Lumsden, Stephen
Lumsden, Sarah Lumsden, Talli Lumsden,
Caralea Cox, and Kendyl Cox.
Madam Speaker, Nick’s service to his coun-
try, enduring work-ethic, and love of family will
continue to have an impact on the Olathe
community for years to come. It is my privilege
to acknowledge him here today, and express
heartfelt gratitude for the important work he
has done throughout his life. I wish him all the
best in his future.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF COLIN
ALLRED AND WELCOMING HIS
NEWBORN SON
HON. HALEY M. STEVENS
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Colin Allred and his wife
Alexandra on congratulating them for their
newborn son, Jordan Eber Allred.
As Co-Presidents of the Democratic Fresh-
man Class, Colin and I have bonded during
this remarkable time in our lives. Colin’s suc-
cesses as an athlete, as a civil rights lawyer,
and now in Congress have prepared him to be
a remarkable father. Colin’s commitment to
put others before himself transcends every
professional action he has taken. It is my
honor and that of our vibrant freshman class
to be working by his side at such a special
time for his family.
The beauty of life is embodied in Jordan
and reminds us of what we’re all here for—to
make this country a better place for our next
of kin, our loved ones, and our fellow citizens.
Let us reflect on this miracle and work to
make this country a better country for Jordan.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in welcoming Jordan into this world. I
couldn’t be happier.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25FE8.001 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E200 February 25, 2019
HONORING THE KOREAN
INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I rise to
celebrate the outstanding achievements of the
people of South Korea in their fight for inde-
pendence. This push for Korean independ-
ence from Japan would begin in Seoul on
March 1, 1919 and spread throughout the
country.
Over 100 years ago, the Korean people
were inspired by former Governor of New Jer-
sey and United States President Woodrow
Wilson’s ideas of self-determination to resist
the occupation of Japanese military rule. This
revolutionary spirt was aided by release of a
Korean Declaration of Independence that was
written by 33 core activists in the Samil Move-
ment. The declaration was read by the leaders
in the Seoul and in townships throughout
Korea by supporters of the movement.
Attempts by the Japanese military to sup-
press the Samil Movement’s peaceful gath-
erings gave their followers a stronger will to
keep demonstrating. It is estimated that ap-
proximately two million Koreans participated in
more than 1,500 demonstrations for independ-
ence. Several thousand were massacred,
wounded and arrested by the Japanese police
force and army in what is known as the
Bloody History of the Korean Independence
Movement. These acts became the catalyst
for the Korean Independence Movement that
would help unify the Korean people in their
quest for independence in 1945.
Our alliance with the Republic of Korea has
always been firm. Korea has remained one of
the United States’ closest and most steadfast
allies and partners. Our shared belief in self-
determination is pivotal to our joint success. I
am proud to rise today to honor that history.
I look forward to joining my constituents on
February 26, 2019 for a ceremony recognizing
the Centennial of the March 1st Movement. I
hope my colleagues will recognize the impor-
tance of the Korean March 1st Movement as
a reflection of our own values of freedom of
assembly, freedom of speech, and freedom to
self-govern.
f
CHET HITT RECEIVES THE DISTIN-
GUISHED COMMUNITY SERVICE
AWARD
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the service and commitment of Chet
Hitt, who received the Distinguished Commu-
nity Service Award from the Victor Valley Col-
lege Foundation on February 23, 2019.
Chet was born in the High Desert and has
lived in Apple Valley for most of his life. Al-
ways ambitious and driven, Chet’s entrepre-
neurial spirit came alive when he began to
control High Desert mortuary business market.
In 1997, he became partners with the owner
of a prior competitor, Victor Valley Mortuary,
and within three years they were able to pur-
chase four additional mortuaries in the High
Desert. Chet has served on the Board of
Trustees of St. Mary Hospital, where he is the
only Board Member to have been born at that
hospital, and also sits on the Board for
Friends of the Fair for the San Bernardino
County Fairgrounds. He was named the Apple
Valley Chamber of Commerce Citizen of the
Year in 2002, and was named Service-Based
Entrepreneur of the Year at the 2017 Spirit of
the Entrepreneur Awards for the Inland Em-
pire. Chet serves as Chairman of the Board of
the Sunset Hills Children’s Foundation and the
Topock 66 Children’s Foundation.
Chet Hitt is one of the most kind, generous,
and hard-working people in the High Desert,
and is eminently deserving of this award. I
offer my sincere congratulations to Chet on
this recognition and my thanks for all the out-
standing work he does in our community.
f
HONORING STEPHEN PHILIP
SPERNAK
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise to
commemorate the distinguished public service
career of Mr. Stephen Philip Spernak. Mr.
Spernak has dedicated over 20 years to serv-
ing and benefitting our community in Orange
County. In 1982 Mr. Spernak began working
for the Cypress Police Department, and here
is where his strong leadership and hard work
began to take notice.
Mr. Spernak served 14 years with the Cy-
press Police Department, during this time he
was named Officer of the Year in 1988 and re-
ceived the Medal of Valor in 1993 for rescuing
an infant from a burning structure. Officer
Spernak was nationally recognized by Mothers
Against Drunk Driving (MADD) in 1990 for cre-
ating a drunk driving education program for
teens, which is still used today. MADD recog-
nized Mr. Spernak as Officer of the Year in
1989 and he has since served as a spokes-
man and lecturer for MADD for 24 years. He
also created and launched a notable public af-
fairs program related to crime prevention,
drunk driving, traffic safety, and neighborhood
watch through public appearances and cable
TV. Mr. Spernak has also served as an Or-
ange County Sheriff Reserve Deputy.
Outside of law enforcement, Mr. Spernak
acted as Executive Assistant and Policy Advi-
sor to Orange County Supervisor Todd Spitzer
during his two terms in office. In these roles
he aided the Local Agency Formation Com-
mission (LAFCO) in their efforts to incorporate
Rancho Santiago Margarita into cityhood. His
successful role led him to serve as Deputy
City Manager of this new city in 2000.
While serving the Orange County Super-
visors, he played a lead role on Supervisor
Spitzer’s staff, serving as his Southern Cali-
fornia Liaison. In this role he collaborated with
anti-airport committees and successfully de-
feated a plan to build an international airport
at El Toro Marine Air Corps Station.
REMEMBERING THE 27TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE KHOJALY
MASSACRE
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 27th anniversary of the
Khojaly Massacre, which took place on Feb-
ruary 26, 1992, and remember the 613 men,
women, and children who were brutalized dur-
ing this despicable act of violence.
Khojaly, a town in the Republic of Azer-
baijan, was home to an unprecedented act of
brutality that desecrated the norms and prin-
ciples of international law, human rights, and
freedoms. Armenian forces, with the support
of the 366th motorized rifle regiment of the
Russian army, stormed the besieged town of
Khojaly engaging in acts so violent that their
effects are still felt in the community, indeed
the entire country, to this day.
Madam Speaker, although a ceasefire was
achieved in 1994, more than 20 percent of Az-
erbaijani territory including Nagorno Karabakh
remain occupied and more than 1 million
Azerbaijanis remain refugees and internally
displaced persons. Over the past 20 years,
Azerbaijan has spent over 6 billion dollars to
ensure the social welfare of the internally dis-
placed. Notably, while providing this crucial
and costly support, Azerbaijan has still taken
significant and impressive strides to improve
economic development in their region.
Indeed the Government of Azerbaijan has
not only contributed to regional stability, but
has continued to be a reliable ally for the
United States in combating terrorism around
the world. In the days after September 11,
2001, Azerbaijan quickly conveyed its soli-
darity with the American people and provided
crucial assistance to our fight against terrorism
by granting unconditional clearance to our mili-
tary to use Azerbaijan’s airspace as part of
Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan.
This is in addition to the naval and ground
routes the country provides for the inter-
national coalition’s supplies that are to be de-
livered to forces in Afghanistan.
Madam Speaker, marking the anniversary of
a tragedy is always a solemn occasion. How-
ever, as a member of the Azerbaijan Caucus,
I believe it is important to recognize and re-
member those whose lives were lost. I ask my
colleagues to join me in offering condolences
to the people of Azerbaijan.
f
IN HONOR OF ANTONIO VACCARO’S
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. CHRIS PAPPAS
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. PAPPAS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Antonio Vaccaro, who celebrated his
100th birthday this past Saturday. A longtime
resident of Portsmouth and a communicator
like no other, Mr. Vaccaro spent much of his
career working as chief engineer at the radio
station WHEB in Portsmouth.
During World War II, Mr. Vaccaro answered
the nation’s call and served as a member of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.003 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E201
February 25, 2019
the elite Flying Tigers. As a member of the
Flying Tigers, he took charge of communica-
tions, using his unique skillset to send many
messages, including the first message an-
nouncing the end of the war. He is a father,
grandfather, great grandfather, and great-great
grandfather to a loving family who worked tire-
lessly to ensure that Mr. Vaccaro was finally
recognized with the Purple Heart more than
half a century after his service.
On behalf of my constituents in New Hamp-
shire’s First Congressional District, I want to
wish Mr. Vaccaro a very happy birthday. I
hope that he had a wonderful celebration with
his friends and family, and I want to thank him
for his service to our country and his dedica-
tion to our community.
f
DILLON LESOVSKY RECEIVES THE
YOUNG ALUMNI HALL OF FAME
AWARD
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today
recognize the service and commitment of Dil-
lon Lesovsky, who received the Young Alumni
Hall of Fame Award from the Victor Valley
College Foundation on February 23, 2019.
Dillon is an entrepreneur at heart and has
been since he was in his teens. In 2006, Dil-
lon founded and operated a small business for
six years which developed video content for
the action sports industry as well as corporate
projects throughout the U.S. He managed all
aspects of production: developed budgets,
drafted business proposals, negotiated with
distributors, and managed contract staff. In
2013, I hired Dillon to serve as a Field Rep-
resentative in my Apple Valley District Office,
where he worked with federal agencies like
Social Security and the Export-Import Bank to
answer constituent questions, represented me
at events in the High Desert community, and
helped manage my social media accounts. In
February of 2018, Dillon was recruited and
hired by ComAv Asset Management to de-
velop international business relationships with-
in the commercial aircraft industry. Dillon has
consistently exceeded his monthly sales quota
in his region, and has also developed sales
processes for a team of 17 sales staff to help
them meet and exceed their sales goals. In
his personal life, Dillon has a love of inside
jokes and wishes to be a part of one some-
day.
Dillon was one of the best employees I have
had, and it was a pleasure to have him on my
staff. On behalf of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, I congratulate Dillon on his entre-
preneurial spirit and his admission to the
Young Alumni Hall of Fame.
f
HONORING WILLIAM MORIN’S RE-
TIREMENT FROM APPLIED MA-
TERIALS, INC.
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the dedication and commit-
ment of William G. Morin as a technology pol-
icy leader and champion of the Silicon Valley
innovation ecosystem who retired from Applied
Materials on February 1, 2019 after rep-
resenting the company for more than 23 years
in Washington, D.C.
With a history degree from Pennsylvania
State University, Mr. Morin chose to launch his
career in the service of our nation. He trained
intensively as an Arabic linguist and intel-
ligence analyst in the U.S. Army and was
posted to the Presidio in Monterey. This gave
Bill his first taste of California and forged life-
long links to the region that would become Sil-
icon Valley. Following four years of service in
the military, he joined the National Association
of Manufacturers where he worked to create
American jobs by advancing intellectual prop-
erty, trade and technology policy.
In 1996, Bill joined the small team of R.
Wayne Sayer and Associates, one of the first
Washington firms specializing in issues to sup-
port the rapidly expanding U.S. high tech-
nology industry and began to represent Ap-
plied Materials. In 2002, he opened and led
Applied’s first direct office in Washington, D.C.
Over the years, he advocated for public policy
that would allow high-tech manufacturers like
Applied to maintain a strong footprint in the
United States while accessing fast-growing
overseas markets and reinvesting in the inno-
vation and R&D that would ensure American
leadership in technology. The policies he ad-
vocated for on behalf of Applied Materials
helped it develop into a major U.S. manufac-
turer and exporter, a world leader in materials
engineering solutions and a model Silicon Val-
ley corporate citizen.
Madam Speaker, upon Bill’s departure from
our nation’s capital, he has wisely chosen to
spend his retirement in California, returning to
the shores of Monterey Bay where he began
his career. I congratulate Bill on his retirement,
for his service to our country and for his serv-
ice to Applied Materials where his contribu-
tions helped open the world’s markets to the
innovations of Silicon Valley.
f
COMMEMORATING THE RETIRE-
MENT OF DR. RICHARD H. PEARL
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, today I
would like to congratulate Dr. Richard Pearl on
his retirement as the OSF Children’s Hospital
Surgeon-in-Chief.
Dr. Pearl has committed his life to the prac-
tice and growth of medicine. He studied at
Wright State University College of Medicine,
where he was first in his class. After his
schooling, Dr. Pearl completed his surgical
residency at the Harvard Surgical Service at
the New England Deaconess Hospital in Bos-
ton, Massachusetts.
In his career, Dr. Pearl has made it his pri-
ority to do all that he can for others. He
served honorably in the U.S. Army, reaching
the rank of Colonel, with a distinguished ca-
reer spanning nearly thirty. He served his
country first as an Infantry Officer and then as
a helicopter pilot. He was given command of
a helicopter company in the First Cavalry Divi-
sion in Vietnam. Dr. Pearl has received nu-
merous Military Honors and awards including
three Bronze Stars, the Legion of Merit and
The Air Medal for Valor. Dr. Pearl has also de-
voted a great portion of his time to sharing his
knowledge and research. He has published
over 85 articles in peer-reviewed journals and
22 book chapters.
During his tenure, the medical community
has had no better champion than Dr. Pearl.
He has always been a fierce advocate for the
advancement of Pediatrics. Central lllinois will
forever be grateful for Dr. Pearl’s years of
service.
f
MARFAN AWARENESS MONTH
HON. THOMAS R. SUOZZI
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
on behalf of Americans affected by Marfan
syndrome and related connective tissue dis-
orders in observance of February as Marfan
Awareness Month.
Marfan syndrome is a rare genetic condi-
tion. About 1 in 5,000 Americans carries a mu-
tation in gene called fibrillin which results in an
overproduction of a protein called transforming
growth factor beta or TGFB. The increased
TGFB impacts connective tissue and since
connective tissue is found throughout the
body, Marfan syndrome features can manifest
throughout the body. Patients often have dis-
proportionately long limbs, a protruding or in-
dented chest bone, curved spine, and loose
joints. However, it is not the outward signs
that concern Marfan syndrome patients, but
the effects the condition has on internal sys-
tems. Most notably, in Marfan patients the
large artery, known as the aorta, which carries
blood away from the hemi is weakened and
prone to enlargement and rupture, which can
be fatal. It is for this reason that increased
awareness of Marfan syndrome can save
lives.
I am proud to represent The Marfan Foun-
dation, which is headquartered in Port Wash-
ington. The Marfan Foundation is the nation’s
foremost organization working to raise aware-
ness of Marfan syndrome and supporting the
marfan community. The Marfan Foundation
has worked tirelessly to improve the lives of
individuals affected by Marfan syndrome and
related connective tissue conditions by ad-
vancing research, raising awareness, and pro-
viding support.
While there is currently no cure for Marfan
syndrome, efforts are underway to enhance
our understanding of the condition and im-
prove patient care. I applaud the National In-
stitutes of Health, particularly the National,
Heart, Lung and Blood Institute and the Na-
tional Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal
and Skin Diseases for their research efforts in
this regard. I encourage NIH to expand re-
search efforts in this area.
Early diagnosis and proper treatment are
the keys to managing Marfan syndrome and
living a full life. I encourage my colleagues to
join me in supporting a Marfan education and
awareness program at the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention. We can facilitate
proper treatment by raising awareness leading
to early diagnosis. I urge my colleagues to join
me in recognizing February as Marfan Aware-
ness Month.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.007 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E202 February 25, 2019
DANIEL ‘‘DANNY’’ M. BARBER
HON. JOSÉ E. SERRANO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, it is my
pleasure to honor Mr. Daniel ‘‘Danny’’ M. Bar-
ber for his many years of tireless advocacy to
improve the lives of Bronx residents. He is a
great example of everyday contributions that
African-Americans have made in my district in
the Bronx and the Nation.
Mr. Barber was born in 1969 to the late Dan
Walker and Janie Barber-Walker and is the
youngest of five children. He attended the De
Witt Clinton High School and was a member
of the football team. He began his love for
community work when he joined the ranks of
the Salvation Army during his early years and
went on to excel as Director and afterward be-
came Assistant to the Commanding Officer.
Mr. Barber currently serves as the President
of the Andrew Jackson Houses Resident As-
sociation, Inc., and is the Founder of SOY,
Inc. (Save Our Youth). Recently, he was elect-
ed to serve as the Chair of the City-Wide
Council of Presidents, which oversees all of
the NYCHA Resident’s Associations, and also
serves as the Chair of The South Bronx Coun-
cil of Presidents. While serving in these ca-
pacities, he also serves on several other
agencies and organizations boards giving
technical support and principled guidance.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Mr. Daniel M. Barber for his
steadfast dedication and years of public serv-
ice to our NYCHA residents, and for his long-
standing commitment to improving our com-
munity.
f
TRIBUTE TO NATIONAL CHIL-
DREN’S DENTAL HEALTH MONTH
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, February
been dedicated as the National Children’s
Dental Health Month. This is such an impor-
tant cause and we are glad to bring aware-
ness to promote good oral health for children.
Tooth decay is the number one chronic infec-
tious disease among children in the U.S. The
impact of not treating decay can lead to other
bad outcomes beyond just oral health. The
Congressional Oral Health Caucus is pleased
to support National Children’s Dental Health
Month and any activities taking place through-
out the month of February.
Give Kids A Smile, which is sponsored by
the ADA Foundation, is at the center of Na-
tional Children’s Dental Health Month. Give
Kids a Smile day is such an important event
for all children and dentists throughout the
country. Because of this program, the ADA
Foundation is able to provide assistance to
more than 6,000 dentists and 57,000 dental
team members, and other volunteers who
proudly give their time and effort to make a
difference in the health of children. Since this
program has started, volunteers have gra-
ciously provided services to over 5.5 million
kids across the country, and to all 50 states as
well. They have truly made a huge impact in
their communities and improved the oral
health of so many children.
Throughout National Children’s Dental
Health Month, dentists and dental team mem-
bers across the country will be providing oral
health services for children in need, and this
will continue throughout the year. These serv-
ices will include oral health education,
screenings, preventive care and restorative
services. Some will provide this in their own
dental practice, others will go right into
schools and the community to reach the kids
that need it most. There are also many major
events at dental hygiene schools where hun-
dreds of kid may receive oral health services.
Continued public awareness on this issue is
so critical. On behalf of the Congressional
Oral Health Caucus, I would once again like to
state our full endorsement for the month, and
push for continued care for good oral health of
children.
f
DR. DEREK KING RECEIVES THE
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE TO
EDUCATION AWARD
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the service and commitment of Dr.
Derek King, who received the Distinguished
Service to Education Award from the Victor
Valley College Foundation on February 23,
2019.
Dr. King currently holds the position of As-
sistant Superintendent of Student Services for
Excelsior Charter Schools and has long been
passionate about education and community
service. A proud veteran of the U.S. Army, Dr.
King began his teaching career with the De-
partment of Defense Dependent Schools in
Babenhausen Germany as part of the Troops
to Teachers program. As an educator, Dr.
King has served as a Teacher, Principal, As-
sistant Superintendent, Treasurer for the local
Association of California School Administra-
tors, and member of the California State
School Attendance and Review Board. Dr.
King was also elected to the Victor Valley
Union High School District Governing Board,
where he held the positions of Trustee, Clerk
and Vice President. Dr. King has also been a
fixture in our local community, and has held
positions on the Victorville Military Affairs
Committee, the Victor Valley Community Serv-
ice Council, and served as Director and Chair-
man of the Board for the Victor Valley Cham-
ber of Commerce.
I thank Dr. Derek King for his service to our
community and country, and his commitment
to educating our next generation. With edu-
cators like Dr. King, our local students will be
well-equipped as they make their way into
adulthood.
RECOGNIZING PATIENT ADVOCATE
BILL HAHN AND THE MANY
SELFLESS AMERICANS WHO
WORK ON BEHALF OF THOSE
STRUGGLING WITH KIDNEY DIS-
EASE
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, on March 5,
2019, Citizens from across the country will
gather in our nation’s Capital to help raise
awareness about kidney disease and advo-
cate for public policy solutions as part of the
National Kidney Foundation’s Annual Patient
Advocacy Summit. In all my years of service,
I have yet to meet more caring and tireless
advocates.
Their advocacy is important because of the
number of people kidney disease affects—
nearly one in three adults are at risk of devel-
oping kidney disease. Nearly thirty million
Americans have kidney disease and approxi-
mately ninety percent don’t even know it. It
sneaks up on you and that’s why raising
awareness is a key component to combating
this disease and ultimately saving lives.
Sadly, on October 10, 2018, we lost one of
our great advocates and champions—our
friend Bill Hahn of Rockledge, Florida, passed
away. Bill was one of those unspoken heroes
who got up every morning and fought to keep
going, for himself, and so many other people
struggling with kidney disease, recovering
from transplant surgery and waiting to receive
the special gift of life.
From an early age, Bill believed in physical
fitness and leading a very active and healthy
life. As a young man he was a male model
and later a professional surfer with the famous
Salick surf team winning numerous awards. A
graduate of Florida State University, he owned
and operated a successful health fitness busi-
ness selling exercise equipment in Melbourne,
Florida. Even with his dedication to a daily ex-
ercise regiment, at the age of twenty-six, Bill
was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes.
Living with Diabetes can be a difficult strug-
gle, even for someone as physically fit as Bill
Hahn. Over time the disease began to take a
toll on Bill’s health as he suffered from many
of its complications including blindness, nerve
damage and even coma. Unfortunately, Bill
suffered renal failure at age fifty-one, but his
physical routine never stopped. When Bill was
on dialysis, he was walking ten miles a day.
And because of his fitness level, he was a
good candidate for transplant surgery. On
New Year’s Eve 2008, Bill received a true gift
of life—a new kidney and pancreas.
Since his surgery, Bill dedicated his life to
helping patients struggling with kidney disease
and other serious medical conditions. In 2012
he joined with surfing legend and fellow trans-
plant recipient Rich Salick and co-founded the
annual Cocoa Beach ‘‘Footprints in the Sand’’
Kidney Walk. Katie and I have been involved
in the Kidney Walk each year and it continues
to grow and draw participation from all over
Central Florida thanks in large part to Bill’s
work and other volunteers from our commu-
nity.
Bill was a constant advocate for this cause,
especially in the last years of his life. And, if
you knew Bill Hahn, helping others is what
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.012 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E203
February 25, 2019
kept him going. He worked closely with my of-
fice on various projects throughout the years
and brought to my attention many important
pieces of legislation moving through Congress
that are critical to winning this battle. In 2017
Bill lead a successful effort to declare May
13th ‘‘Living Kidney Donor Day’’ in the State of
Florida. He is also the author of three books
including More Than A Conqueror Legacy, a
spiritual healing guide for patients; The Silver
Lining, a chronicle of Bill’s journey through re-
covery; and The Window Box, a book of po-
etry.
I ask my colleagues in the U.S. House of
Representatives to join me in recognizing the
efforts of Bill Hahn and the many other Ameri-
cans who have worked tirelessly to raise
awareness about kidney disease and advo-
cate for patients in need.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF PATRICK
MORAN, HIBERNIAN OF THE YEAR
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Patrick Moran, who was
celebrated as the Hibernian of the Year by the
Ancient Order of Hibernians, Monsignor Farrell
Division on February 23, 2019. The Monsignor
Farrell Division No. 2 Chapter of the Ancient
Order of Hibernians and its founders exemplify
the core principles of charity, concern for our
fellow man, and commitment to educating stu-
dents about the sacrifices and accomplish-
ments of prior generations.
A Carbondale native, Pat was born on Au-
gust 31, 1953 to Joseph and Margaret Moran.
Pat is a graduate of St. Rose High School,
Class of 1971. A veteran of the Navy, Pat
worked at Tobyhanna Army Depot after dis-
charge. He then moved to the greater Denver
Area where he worked for Continental Air
Lines before owning and operating his own
business.
Upon his retirement in 2012, Pat returned to
Northeast Pennsylvania and became active in
several local community organizations. Today,
he is a member of the Columbia Hose Co.
and the American Legion in Carbondale. Pat’s
involvement with the AOH began when he
joined the organization’s Golf League. He be-
came increasingly involved in volunteer efforts
by the AOH. He is currently a member of Ring
and Shuffleboard leagues, as well as a volun-
teer bartender every Monday evening and for
many Division functions.
It is an honor to recognize Patrick Moran as
he is named Hibernian of the Year by the An-
cient Order of Hibernians, Monsignor Farrell
Division. I thank him for his service to his
country in the U.S. Navy and his continued
service to our community with the AOH. I con-
gratulate him for receiving such an honor from
his fellow brothers in the Ancient Order of Hi-
bernians.
IN HONOR OF ANDREW AND ILA
MARTINEZ
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
honor the memory of Andrew and Ila Martinez
of Huntsville, Texas.
Andrew and Ila, beloved parents and life-
long Texans, spent their lives in service to oth-
ers, and today, we remember all that they
stood for. Andrew ‘‘Andy’’ Martinez was born
in Galveston, Texas and later became a proud
member of the Huntsville community. His
multifaceted career path included time spent
as a proud small business owner of Martinez
Tire and Supply, a construction safety super-
visor for the Texas Department of Criminal
Justice (TDCJ), and as an ordained minister.
A faithful and steadfast Christian, Andy served
as the interim pastor of Faith Memorial Baptist
Church, and was an active member of several
other churches in the Huntsville area.
Andy’s faithfulness, generosity, and love for
those around him was not only evident on
Sundays—it was visible every day of his life.
Andy served the Huntsville community in a va-
riety of public roles. He was an elected mem-
ber of the Huntsville City Council, the Director
for Trinity River Authority’s Walker County
Area, a member of the Board of Trustees for
Huntsville lSD, and Chairman of the Repub-
lican Party of Walker County. Andy also acted
as a Prison Ministry Volunteer in Huntsville—
a position he held for over 30 remarkable
years. Those who knew Andy will attest to his
sincere selflessness. He always worked to-
wards leaving the Huntsville community better
than he found it.
Ila Martinez was Andy’s wonderful wife of
over 63 years and was not only a devoted
partner to him, but was a loving mother and
active in the community as well. A leading
member of the Republican Party of Walker
County, Ila was involved in the Red Hat La-
dies and the Calendar Girls, a group of friends
from Conroe High School that would meet
once a month at lunchtime. Ila had a great
love for volunteering and was often working
with the Walker County Republican women or
at her church library. Ila was a doting grand-
mother and her greatest pleasure was teach-
ing her beloved granddaughters how to sew
and bake.
Andy and Ila had two daughters, Andrea
Scott and the late Debbie Martinez, and a son,
Russell Martinez. Andy and Ila are survived by
Andrea and her husband Wayne; their son,
Russell; two beautiful grandchildren, Angela
Stacks and husband Jared; Mika Spears and
her husband Neal; and three great-grand-
children: Draper Stacks, Megan Anthony, and
Trent Spears.
The legacy of Andy and Ila will always be a
part of the Huntsville community, kept alive in
the hearts of those who knew and loved them.
Both were selfless servants dedicated to
bettering the lives of those around them, and
they will be greatly missed.
COMMEMORATING THE RETIRE-
MENT OF DR. STEPHEN E. BASH
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, today I
would like to congratulate Dr. Stephen Bash
on his retirement from the University of Illinois
College of Medicine at Peoria.
Born in Indianapolis, Indiana, Dr. Bash de-
cided to dedicate his life to medicine at a
young age. He attended Indiana University at
Bloomington before receiving his MD from In-
diana University Medical School at Indianap-
olis. After his schooling, Dr. Bash served hon-
orably in the U.S. Navy as a Lieutenant Com-
mander.
In his career, Dr. Bash has made Pediatrics
a top priority. In private practice and in public
service, Dr. Bash has made a lasting impact
at every stop. He has held Directorships at
both the Regional Sleep Apnea Center and at
the Pediatric Cardiac Catheterization Labora-
tory at the Children’s Hospital of Illinois at
OSF St. Francis Medical Center in Peoria, Illi-
nois. Dr. Bash has also dedicated time to re-
search. He has been a Principal Investigator
for two clinical studies and has been the au-
thor of many articles. To give back to his com-
munity, Dr. Bash has served on the Board of
Directors for the Marvin Hult Health Education
Center and Heartland Community Health Cen-
ter.
During his tenure, the medical community
has had no better champion than Dr. Bash.
He has always been a fierce advocate for the
advancement of Pediatrics. Central Illinois will
forever be grateful for Dr. Bash’s years of
service.
f
REINTRODUCTION OF THE RE-
STORING THE PARTNERSHIP FOR
COUNTY HEALTH CARE COSTS
ACT OF 2019
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce a bill to restore the partner-
ship between the federal government and
counties for the health care costs of inmates
who have not been convicted of a crime. This
legislation will provide some relief to our na-
tion’s local economies, while strengthening the
fundamental principles of our justice system.
In almost all states, a person who is incar-
cerated in a county jail or juvenile detention
facility loses their Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP or
SSI benefits even if they have not been con-
victed of a crime. The U.S. Supreme Court’s
interpretation of the 8th Amendment requires
government entities to provide medical care to
all inmates. As a result, local governments are
burdened with the expense of providing health
care to thousands of men, women, and chil-
dren currently awaiting trial.
Providing health care for inmates constitutes
a major portion of local jail operating costs.
Requiring county governments to cover health
care costs for inmates who have not yet been
convicted of a crime places an unnecessary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.015 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E204 February 25, 2019
burden on local governments, which have their
fair share of widespread budget deficits and
cuts to safety net programs and other essen-
tial services to deal with as it is.
Terminating benefits to inmates who are
awaiting trial undermines the presumption of
innocence, which is a cornerstone principle of
our justice system. The current practice does
not distinguish between persons who are
awaiting disposition of charges and persons
who have been duly convicted and sentenced.
Moreover, this reality disproportionately affects
low-income and minority populations who are
often unable to post bond, which would enable
them to continue receiving benefits.
Madam Speaker, my legislation addresses
this problem by prohibiting the federal govern-
ment from stripping individuals of their Medi-
care, Medicaid, and SSI benefits before the in-
mate has been convicted of a crime. It pre-
serves the partnership between the federal
and local governments and ensures that local
governments are not burdened with an unfair
share of meeting the constitutional mandate to
guarantee medical coverage. I encourage my
colleagues to join me in supporting this com-
monsense bill that addresses a problem af-
fecting communities all across the nation.
f
MONICA MAJOR
HON. JOSÉ E. SERRANO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pleasure that I rise today to honor Ms.
Monica Major for her many years of advocacy
and public service in the Bronx. She is a great
example of the countless contributions that Af-
rican Americans make to our Nation every
day.
Ms. Major previously served as the Bronx
Representative on the Panel for Educational
Policy of the New York City Department of
Education. In addition, she volunteered for
Bronx Community School District 11 for sev-
eral years, and served as President of the Dis-
trict 11 Community Education Council. One of
Ms. Major’s greatest accomplishments has
been serving on the Citywide Parent Commis-
sion on School Governance as a parent advo-
cate to ensure that the voices of Bronx par-
ents were heard in addressing school govern-
ance issues. She is still committed to address-
ing quality of education throughout the Bronx.
A tireless and dedicated public servant, Ms.
Major currently serves as the Director of Edu-
cation and Youth Services for Bronx Borough
President Rubén Dı́az, Jr. She is a graduate
of Baruch College and is a certified mediator.
Ms. Major is also a member of the National
Council of Negro Women, North Bronx Sec-
tion. She is the mother of two and still remains
very active in her community.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in paying tribute to Ms. Monica Major for
her strong commitment to students and for her
vigorous advocacy on education issues.
COMMEMORATING THE RETIRE-
MENT OF DR. JITENDRA J. SHAH
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, today I
would like to congratulate Dr. Jitendra Shah
on his retirement from the University of Illinois
College of Medicine at Peoria.
Originally from India, Dr. Shah decided to
dedicate his life to medicine at a young age.
He studied Preparatory Science and Pre-Medi-
cine at Maharaja Sayajirao University in
Baroda, India, where he also attended Medical
College. After his schooling, Dr. Shah made
his way to Philadelphia to complete his resi-
dency at Philadelphia General Hospital.
In his career, Dr. Shah has made Pediatrics
a top priority. While teaching and in practice,
Dr. Shah has made a lasting impact at every
stop. He has held Directorships at the Pedi-
atric Cardiac Noninvasive Services, Regional
Sleep Apnea Center and Pediatric Cardiac
Catherization Laboratory at the Children’s
Hospital of Illinois at OSF St. Francis Medical
Center in Peoria, Illinois. Dr. Shah has also
dedicated his life to research. He has received
approval for four Medical Grants through the
American Heart Association. To recognize his
ability, in 1986 and 1992 the Pediatric Resi-
dent Physicians at St. Francis Medical Center
and University of Illinois College of Medicine
at Peoria presented Dr. Shah with awards for
his impressive teaching methods.
During his tenure, the medical community
has had no better champion than Dr. Shah.
He has always been a fierce advocate for the
advancement of Pediatrics. Central Illinois will
forever be grateful for Dr. Shah’s years of
service.
f
ROGER WAGNER RECEIVES THE
PRESIDENTS’ AWARD
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the service and commitment of
Roger Wagner, who received the Presidents’
Award from the Victor Valley College Founda-
tion on February 23, 2019.
Roger served as the Victor Valley College
Superintendent and President for over four
years and officially retired at the end of 2018.
Prior to his retirement, he was instrumental in
Victor Valley College receiving full accredita-
tion from the Accrediting Commission for
Community and Junior Colleges. Roger has a
passion for education and understands the im-
portance of the college providing local stu-
dents with an affordable and high quality edu-
cation. Roger was responsible for a number of
successes for the college, including hosting
the 2017 Youth Poverty Symposium, opening
the Automotive and Welding Facility, and de-
veloping new programs including Industrial
Maintenance and Manufacturing programs. He
is married to his wife Stacy and together they
have two children.
Before my career in politics, I had the privi-
lege of working with Roger at Copper Moun-
tain College in the Morongo Basin. I can say
from experience that Roger is an incredibly in-
telligent and hard-working individual with a
true passion for education, and I can guar-
antee that he will be sorely missed at Victor
Valley College. I congratulate Roger on receiv-
ing this award, and wish him all the best as he
heads into retirement.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
JUDGE RUSSELL B. SUGARMON,
JR.
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the life of Russell B. Sugarmon—
a great American jurist, Civil Rights leader, po-
litical pioneer and elder statesman from my
hometown of Memphis, Tennessee. Judge
Sugarmon died Monday after a long illness at
the age of 89 but will be remembered forever
as a crusading legal scholar who worked to
end segregation in the Memphis public
schools and for being a political genius who
helped behind the scenes to elect the African
American and progressive candidates who re-
shaped Memphis. In 1959, Sugarmon was one
of the first African Americans to run for city-
wide office when he sought to be commis-
sioner for public works. In 1966, he was elect-
ed to become Tennessee’s second African
American state representative since Recon-
struction and was later elected a General Ses-
sions Court judge after serving as a partner in
Memphis’ and Tennessee’s first integrated law
firm—Ratner, Sugarmon, Lucas and Willis.
Other legendary attorneys such as Bill
Caldwell, Irvin Salky, Troy Henderson, Walter
Bailey, Jr., Russell X. Thompson and Tom Ar-
nold hung their hats and licenses there. From
1976 to 1987, Judge Sugarmon was a referee
in the Memphis Juvenile Court system, step-
ping down in May 1987 when he was ap-
pointed a General Sessions Court Judge. He
was elected to the bench in 1988 and was re-
elected in 1990 and 1998. Russell Bertram
Sugarmon, Jr. graduated from the city’s Book-
er T. Washington High School in 1946 at the
age of 15. Sugarmon spent a year at More-
house College—in the class a year behind Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr.—and transferred to
Rutgers University, where he received his un-
dergraduate degree in Political Science in
1950. He received his J.D. from Harvard Uni-
versity in 1953 and spent the following two
years in the U.S. Army based mainly in Japan.
After returning to the United States, he did fur-
ther graduate studies at Boston University,
then came back to Memphis in 1956 to estab-
lish a private legal practice. Judge Sugarmon
worked tirelessly even when victory wasn’t in
the cards and kept the faith, knowing that it
would come in time. He was one of the most
learned strategists on politics and history in
our community, avoiding the limelight but hold-
ing sway as the influential wise man behind
the scenes in collaboration with a biracial and
tolerant group of progressive leaders. Judge
Sugarmon was a mentor, supporter and friend
of mine my entire life and I am eternally grate-
ful to have been so fortunate to have shared
time with this remarkably knowledgeable, judi-
cious and beloved man. Last year, Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.019 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E205
February 25, 2019
passed and the President signed into law my
bill designating the post office at 1325 Autumn
Avenue as the Russell B. Sugarmon Post Of-
fice. I had hoped Judge Sugarmon would be
on hand for its dedication later this year but its
existence will stand as a lasting physical
monument to his stature in our city, in our
state and in our nation. No one is more de-
serving. Supporting Russell Sugarmon’s great
work and providing encouragement and
strength was the Sugarmon family. Russell
was a beloved husband and father of six chil-
dren, sadly preceded in death by his dear
daughter Tina Spence. I extend my sincere
condolences to his devoted wife and com-
panion, Gina; his children Judge Tarik
Sugarmon, Elena Williams, Erika Sugarmon,
Monique Sugarmon and Carol Spence; his ex-
tended family and his many friends.
f
JUSTICE ELIZABETH TAYLOR
HON. JOSÉ E. SERRANO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pleasure that I rise today to pay tribute
to Justice Elizabeth Audrey Taylor for her
many years of compassionate service and tire-
less work to improve the lives of our Bronx
residents. Justice Taylor is a great example of
the countless contributions that African Ameri-
cans make every day to the Bronx and our
Nation.
Justice Taylor was born and raised in the
Highbridge Section of the Bronx and is a prod-
uct of the public school system. She received
a Bachelor of Arts in English from Binghamton
University and her Juris Doctor from Ohio
Northern University School of Law. She began
her career as a legislative aide in the New
York City Council and then went to work in pri-
vate practice, where she specialized in land-
lord and tenant issues. Thereafter, Justice
Taylor returned to the public sector as the
Senior Court Attorney to Justice Edgar G.
Walker, who at the time was serving in the
Bronx Criminal Court. Until 2008, she contin-
ued her commitment to public service by serv-
ing as Principal Law Clerk to New York Su-
preme Court Justice Kenneth L. Thompson,
Jr. , who is currently serving in the Civil Term
of Bronx County Supreme Court.
In addition, Justice Taylor was recently
elected Justice of the Supreme Court of the
State of New York. She was first elected in
2008 to the Civil Court of the City of New York
and has been honored as Judge of the Year
by the Bronx County Bar Association and the
Bronx Advocates for Justice.
Justice Taylor is also a member of the Mili-
tary Academy Review Committee for the 15th
Congressional district. She has been a mem-
ber of this committee since 2014 and has
been instrumental in helping our office make
military academy recommendations since
then. This has allowed numerous students
from the 15th Congressional District to attend
these prestigious schools with full scholar-
ships.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues join
me in honoring Justice Elizabeth Audrey Tay-
lor for her consistently remarkable dedication
to the law and commitment to serving her
community.
REMEMBERING THE KHOJALY
TRAGEDY
HON. VIRGINIA FOXX
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to join with the Republic
of Azerbaijan in its commemoration of the
Khojaly Tragedy, also known as the Khojaly
Massacre.
I ask my colleagues to join me in remem-
bering the town and people of Khojaly who
died on those fateful days and in offering our
deepest condolences to Azerbaijan on this
tragic anniversary.
In doing so, we remember the 613 Azer-
baijani men, women, and children killed in
Khojaly on February 25 and 26, 1992. The
Government of Azerbaijan continues to act as
a valuable partner of the United States and
serves as a bulwark against America’s adver-
saries in the region. We solemnly remember
this anniversary and honor the lives lost.
f
ASSISTANT SHERIFF LANA
TOMLIN RECEIVES THE ALUMNI
HALL OF FAME AWARD
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the service and commitment of As-
sistant Sheriff Lana Tomlin, who received the
Alumni Hall of Fame Award from the Victor
Valley College foundation on February 23,
2019.
Assistant Sheriff Tomlin is a dedicated pub-
lic servant who has worked for the San
Bernardino County Sheriffs Department for
over twenty-nine years. Soon after her gradua-
tion from the San Bernardino County Sheriffs
Department Training Academy, Assistant
Sheriff Tomlin was assigned to the Barstow
Station as a patrol deputy where she quickly
excelled in her duties while simultaneously at-
tending Victor Valley College. She is the first
woman in the history of San Bernardino Coun-
ty to be appointed to Assistant Sheriff and
oversees several departments and operations.
Locally, Assistant Sheriff Tomlin has served
multiple assignments at different High Desert
stations, including serving as Captain of the
Apple Valley Sheriffs Station. She has also
volunteered throughout the community, from
coaching the women’s basketball team at Vic-
tor Valley College to giving back to our next
generation through the Police Activities
League program.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, I would like to congratulate Assistant
Sheriff Lana Tomlin on this award. Lana is an
exemplary law enforcement officer and com-
munity leader. I thank her for her years of
dedication and service to the people of San
Bernardino County.
TRIBUTE TO THE 2018 ELLIS IS-
LAND MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPI-
ENTS
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate the 2018 recipients of the
prestigious Ellis Island Medal of Honor.
Presented annually, the Ellis Island Medals
of Honor pay tribute to our Nation’s immigrant
heritage, as well as individual achievement.
The Medals are awarded to U.S. citizens from
diverse ethnic backgrounds who exemplify
outstanding qualities in both their personal and
professional lives, while continuing to preserve
the richness of their particular heritage and
culture. We honor these outstanding individ-
uals because the important work they do
today, creates a better world for all of us to-
morrow. This momentous occasion was cele-
brated with a patriotic ceremony on Ellis Island
and a recommitment by the leaders of the or-
ganization to their mission of honoring diver-
sity, fostering tolerance and promoting reli-
gious and racial unity across America.
Since the Medals’ founding, more than
2,500 American citizens have received the
Ellis Island Medal of Honor, including seven
American Presidents, numerous United States
Senators and Congressmen, two Nobel Laure-
ates, and many athletes, artists, clergy, and
military leaders. This Medal is not about mate-
rial success, nor is it about the politics of im-
migration; it is about the people who have
committed themselves to this nation, em-
braced the opportunities America offers, and
most importantly, who have used those oppor-
tunities to not only better their own lives but
make a difference in our country and in the
lives of its people.
Citizens of the United States hail from every
nation known to man. The iconic metaphor of
this nation as a veritable melting pot of cul-
tures continues to ring true, and it is this diver-
sity that adds to the unique richness of Amer-
ican life. It is the key to why America is the
most innovative, progressive and forward
thinking country in the world. The Ellis Island
Medals of Honor not only celebrate select indi-
viduals but also the pluralism and democracy
that enabled our forbearers to celebrate their
cultural identities while still embracing the
American way of life. This award serves to re-
mind us all that with hard work and persever-
ance anyone can still achieve the American
dream. In addition, by honoring these remark-
able Americans, we honor all who share their
origins and we acknowledge the contributions
they have made to America. I commend Na-
tional Ethnic Coalition of Organizations and its
Board of Directors headed by Nasser J.
Kazeminy, for honoring these truly outstanding
individuals for their tireless efforts to foster
dialogue and build bridges between different
ethnic groups, as well as to promote unity and
a sense of common purpose in our nation.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the good works of NECO
and in congratulating all of the 2018 recipients
of the Ellis Island Medal of Honor. I include in
the RECORD the names of this year’s recipi-
ents.
2018 ELLIS ISLAND MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENTS
Ziauddin Ahmed, MD, Nancy Anschutz, Phil
Anschutz, Dr. Bahman Atefi, Maryam
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.023 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E206 February 25, 2019
Banikarim, Michael Barnard, Marta Batmasian,
Diana L. Bennett, Nicolas Berggruen, John P.
Bilezikian, MD, Lieutenant General Gwen
Bingham, Dr. Ed Bosarge, Vanu C. Bose,
Denis A. Bovin, Kay Buck, Sanford R. Climan,
William A. Colon, Armand C. Dellovade, Peter
P. Dhillon, Robert Dilenschneider, General
Larry R. Ellis, USA (Ret), Akram Elias, Adam
S. Falkoff, Farnaz Fassihi, David S. Ferriero,
Captain Liam J. Flaherty, Honorable Albert A.
Frink, Honorable Edward M. Gabriel, Larry
Gagosian, Professor Henry Louis Gates, Major
General Cedric George, Charles M. Ghailian,
Barbara Grapstein, Murat Guzel, Rosemary
Hanley, Franco Harris, Dottie Herman, Dave
A. Isay, John W. Jackson, Susan G. Jackson,
Naveen Jain, Francisco S. Jin, Dean Kamen,
Farooq Kathwari, Bibiji Inderjit Kaur Khalsa,
James K. Kim, General Joseph Lengyel, Sher-
iff Joseph M. Lombardo, Jacob Lozada, PhD,
Mun Y. Lum, Colonel Patrick Mahaney, USA,
Commissioner Robert Manfred, Honorable Mi-
chael McCaul, Scott L. Menke, Rita Moreno,
Chief Terence A. Monahan, Jeanne D.
Mrozek, MD, Angella Nazarian, David
Nazarian, Steven D. Nerayoff, Esq., Hadi
Partovi, Rear Admiral Steven D. Poulin,
Eduardo Rodriguez, Michael Rogers, USN,
Jerrold F. Rosenbaum, MD, Albeti I. Salama,
Qiongzhao E. Schicktanz, PhD, Jeff
Schottenstein, Khosrow Semnani, Vicken P.
Sepilian, MD, FACOG, Sir Bruno Serato,
Rahmat A. Shoureshi, PhD, Mark Solazzo,
Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, Shari Staglin, Garen
Staglin, Philip E. Stieg, PhD, MD, Richard W.
Stocks, Daniele C. Struppa, PhD, Jon Stryker,
Dennis W. Sullivan, Ardeshir Tavangarian, Dr.
Masoud Tayebi, Anthony K. Tjan, Major Gen-
eral Hugh Van Roosen, Marica F. Vilcek, Jan
T. Vilcek, Josef H. von Rickenbach, Vincent
Wang, DO, MD, Arieh Warshel, PhD, Honor-
able James W. Ziglar, Anita G. Zucker.
INTERNATIONAL ELLIS ISLAND MEDAL OF HONOR
RECIPIENTS
Stefan W. Hell, Hinduja Foundation, Albert II
Prince of Monaco.
f
BENJAMIN B. TUCKER
HON. JOSÉ E. SERRANO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pleasure that I rise today to honor First
Deputy Commissioner Benjamin B. Tucker of
the New York Police Department for his years
of public service and tireless work to improve
the lives of our community and our city. He is
a great example of the countless contributions
that African Americans make every day to the
Bronx and our Nation.
First Deputy Commissioner Tucker began
his career with the New York City Police De-
partment (NYPD) in 1969 as a Police Trainee.
In this role, he conducted an innovative
school-based drug prevention education pro-
gram. He became a Police Officer in 1972 and
was promoted to Sergeant in 1987. During his
22 years of service with the NYPD, Mr. Tucker
performed patrol, school task force, anti-crime,
and community affairs assignments. In addi-
tion, he served as a Police Academy instruc-
tor, legal advisor in the Office of the Deputy
Commissioner for Legal Matters; and as the
Assistant Director of the Civilian Complaint
Review Board.
In 1995, President William Jefferson Clinton
appointed Mr. Tucker as the Deputy Director
for Operations in the Office of Community Ori-
ented Policing Services at the U.S. Depart-
ment of Justice. In 2009, Mr. Tucker was nom-
inated by President Barack H. Obama, and
confirmed by the United States Senate, as the
Deputy Director for State, Local and Tribal Af-
fairs within the White House Office of National
Drug Control Policy.
His unique experiences in law enforcement,
public service, and academia led in 2014 to
Mr. Tucker’s appointment as Deputy Commis-
sioner for Training during NYPD Commis-
sioner William J. Bratton’s tenure. Proving to
be a valued member of the executive staff, Mr.
Tucker was promoted to First Deputy Commis-
sioner and entrusted to direct design and im-
plement a broad range of policy, programs,
and training to strengthen community relations
and improve the performance of the Depart-
ment.
First Deputy Commissioner Tucker holds a
Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice from
the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, City
University of New York, a Juris Doctor from
Fordham University School of Law, and is a
tenured professor at Pace University.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in honoring First Deputy Commis-
sioner Benjamin B. Tucker for his distin-
guished public service and extensive contribu-
tions in ensuring the safety and well-being of
the residents of New York City.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ADAM KINZINGER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. KINZINGER. Madam Speaker, due to
my Air National Guard unit being mobilized to
assist operations on the southern border, I
was unable to be present and cast votes dur-
ing the week of February 11. Had I been
present, I would have voted: ‘‘yea’’ on Roll
Call No. 76; ‘‘yea’’on Roll Call No. 77; ‘‘nay’’
on Roll Call No. 78; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 79;
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 80; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 81; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 82; ‘‘nay’’ on
Roll Call No. 83; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 84;
‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 85; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call
No. 86; and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 87.
f
CONGRATULATING MAUREEN
MCFADDEN ON HER RETIREMENT
AFTER 40 YEARS AT WNDU-TV
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Maureen McFadden and
congratulate her on a remarkable 40-year ca-
reer at WNDU-TV. I want to take a moment to
honor the iconic legacy Maureen is leaving be-
hind at WNDU-TV and thank her for all she
has done for Michiana communities.
A lifelong Hoosier, Maureen has been a fix-
ture in South Bend as a reporter and anchor
at WNDU Newscenter 16 for the past four
decades. She has played a vital role in mak-
ing northern Indiana stronger, not only by
bringing us the day’s news but by always find-
ing ways to serve her neighbors and give back
to the community she loves to call home.
Generations of viewers have gotten to know
Maureen as she delivers the local news each
night. Her career in journalism began in her
hometown of South Bend, and though she will
soon anchor her last WNDU-TV newscast, her
retirement is far from the end of her positive
impact. She displays a strong sense of affec-
tion and pride for our community when sharing
the stories of our fellow Hoosiers. Her stead-
fast commitment to shining a light on impor-
tant issues, encouraging community service,
and keeping Hoosiers informed and engaged
is why Maureen has become such a beloved
household name.
I am grateful to Maureen not only for her ex-
cellence in journalism, but also for the incred-
ible example she has set for aspiring journal-
ists and young Hoosier women looking to give
back and build a brighter future.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the exceptional character,
leadership, and compassion Maureen has
demonstrated both on and off the air. I wish
Mo the very best.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE SAVING
AMERICA’S POLLINATORS ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, the
peer-reviewed journal Biological Conservation
recently published a scientific analysis that
paints a terrifying picture for the future of in-
sects and our planet. This analysis concluded
that largely because of intensive agriculture,
and specifically heavy use of pesticides, over
40 percent of insect species are threatened
with extinction. Furthermore, this analysis
found that around 41 percent of all insect spe-
cies have seen their populations decline over
the last 10 years, and that 3.5 million of the
United States honeybee colonies have been
lost since 1947.
These alarming statistics foretell a cata-
strophic collapse of nature’s ecosystems. Al-
ready we are seeing the impacts of the cli-
mate crisis wreak havoc on our natural world,
public health and, importantly, our food sys-
tem. Pollinators and other insects are vital to
our economy and our livelihoods. One of
every three bites of food we eat is from a crop
pollinated by bees. This analysis is a call to
action to do all we can to protect these valu-
able insects, particularly in the face of climate
change.
That’s why today I am introducing the Sav-
ing America’s Pollinators Act. This legislation
will suspend the use of certain insecticides
until they are thoroughly assessed and deter-
mined to be safe for pollinators. Furthermore,
it establishes a monitoring network for native
bees, and clarifies the emergency exemption
powers that this Administration is afforded
under current law.
This law is much needed, and my hope is
that with this new and alarming information,
Congress can finally act to adequately protect
our future food supply and agricultural and ec-
ological health before it’s too late.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.027 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E207
February 25, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE OF MR.
JAMES (JIM) LEON STALLINGS
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life of Mr. James
(Jim) Leon Stallings of Selma, Alabama.
Mr. Stallings was beloved by his community
and went out of his way to improve the lives
of others. Sadly, Mr. Stallings passed away on
Friday, February 15, 2019 at the age of 83.
As a child, Mr. Stallings attended Nash
County Training School in Nashville, North
Carolina where he stood out as an excellent
basketball player and athlete.
After graduating from high school, he at-
tended Allen University in Columbia, South
Carolina, where he met the love of his life,
Bettye Bonner.
Mr. Stallings was drawn to a life of service
from a young age. He was involved early in
life at his church, Mount Vernon Missionary
Baptist and, upon graduating from college, en-
rolled in the United States Army.
Later, Mr. Stallings continued to give back
to his community by helping develop the next
generation of Alabamians, working as a teach-
er in the Wilcox County School System at W.
J. Jones High School, in Pine Apple, Alabama,
and a teacher and basketball coach in the
Dallas County Schools System at Tipton High
School, in Selma, Alabama.
After many years of service in the Alabama
public schools, Mr. Stallings transitioned to a
role with the City of Selma, dedicating 27
years as the first African American Director of
General Services. In that role, Mr. Stallings
opened doors of opportunity for many young
men and women to prosper.
One of Mr. Stalling’s passions was DJing at
WHBB Radio in Selma where he was fondly
known as ‘‘Big Jim.’’ He quickly became
known for gracing the airwaves with a variety
of musical genres, including spiritual, soft rock
and R&B music on his shows, ‘‘The Spiritual
Hour’’ and the ‘‘Jim Stallings Show.’’ Mr. Stal-
lings’ music selections helped heal community
divisions in the 1960s and laid the pathway for
other aspiring African American DJs to enter
the local radio scene.
Mr. Stallings’ hobbies did not stop at the
radio station, though. He was an honorary
member of the Twelve High Club; a member
of the Alabama Elks Lodge No. 1170 where
he served for several years as the Exalted
Ruler; an original member of the Tuesday
Night Group; Director of the local Beauty and
Talent; and the Alabama State Association of
Elks; lead singer for Terry and the Fantastics;
and a football announcer for the City of Selma
and the Dallas County School systems.
While Mr. Stallings has passed from this life
to the next, his legacy lives on in his devoted
children, Anthony and Bonnie, his five grand-
children and many grand nieces and nephews,
cousins, other relatives and friends.
On behalf of Alabama’s 7th Congressional
district and a grateful nation, I ask my col-
leagues to join me in celebrating Mr. Stallings’
contributions to bettering the Selma commu-
nity and our nation.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JAHANA HAYES
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 25, 2019
Mrs. HAYES. Madam Speaker, I was unable
to be present for votes on February 11th due
to unavoidable travel delays.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 76, and YEA on Roll
Call No. 77.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 26, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
FEBRUARY 27
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine policy prin-
ciples for a Federal data privacy frame-
work in the United States.
SH–216
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine S. 383, to
support carbon dioxide utilization and
direct air capture research, to facili-
tate the permitting and development of
carbon capture, utilization, and seques-
tration projects and carbon dioxide
pipelines.
SD–406
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold a joint hearing with the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to ex-
amine the legislative presentation of
The American Legion.
SD–G50
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine assessing
the role of the United States in the
world.
SD–419
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To receive a closed briefing on Depart-
ment of Defense cyber operations.
SVC–217
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
military personnel policies and mili-
tary family readiness.
SR–222
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine the Budget
Control Act, focusing on a review of
cap-adjusted spending.
SD–608
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine protecting
the electric grid from an electro-
magnetic pulse or geomagnetic dis-
turbance.
SD–106
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the 45th anniversary of the Native
American Programs Act and the estab-
lishment of the Administration for Na-
tive Americans.
SD–628
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine the future
of American industry.
SR–428A
FEBRUARY 28
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine imple-
menting the Agriculture Improvement
Act.
SR–328A
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine nuclear pol-
icy and posture.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine addressing
the opioid epidemic in America, focus-
ing on prevention, treatment, and re-
covery at the state and local level.
SD–124
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine legislative
proposals on capital formation and cor-
porate governance.
SD–538
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine prospects
for global energy markets, focusing on
the role of the United States and per-
spectives from the International En-
ergy Agency.
SD–366
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Permanent Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions
To hold hearings to examine China’s im-
pact on the United States education
system.
SD–342
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Neomi J. Rao, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the District of
Columbia Circuit, Joseph F. Bianco, of
New York, and Michael H. Park, of New
York, both to be a United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Greg
Girard Guidry, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, Michael T. Liburdi, to be
United States District Judge for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25FE8.032 E25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E208 February 25, 2019
District of Arizona, Peter D. Welte, to
be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota, Aditya
Bamzai, of Virginia, and Travis
LeBlanc, of Maryland, both to be a
Member of the Privacy and Civil Lib-
erties Oversight Board, and Drew H.
Wrigley, to be United States Attorney
for the District of North Dakota, De-
partment of Justice.
SD–226
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
MARCH 5
10 a.m.
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear
Safety
To hold hearings to examine states’ role
in protecting air quality, focusing on
principles of cooperative federalism.
SD–406
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine vaccines, fo-
cusing on preventable disease out-
breaks.
SD–430
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold hearings to examine concentra-
tion and competition in the United
States economy.
SD–226
MARCH 6
10 a.m.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold a joint hearing with the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to ex-
amine the legislative presentation of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
SD–G50
MARCH 7
2 p.m.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold a joint hearing with the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to ex-
amine the legislative presentation of
multiple veterans service organiza-
tions.
SD–G50
MARCH 12
10 a.m.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold a joint hearing with the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to ex-
amine the legislative presentation of
multiple veterans service organiza-
tions.
SD–G50
MARCH 14
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine the Ebola
outbreak in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and other emerging
health threats.
SD–124
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M25FE8.000 E25FEPT1
D175
Monday, February 25, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senator Fischer delivered Washington’s Farewell Address.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1405–S1445
Measures Introduced: Sixteen bills were intro-
duced, as follows: S. 536–551. Pages S1436–37
Measures Reported:
Report to accompany S. 163, to prevent cata-
strophic failure or shutdown of remote diesel power
engines due to emission control devices. (S. Rept.
No. 116–2) Page S1436
Measures Considered:
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act:
Senate resumed consideration of the motion to pro-
ceed to consideration of S. 311, to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit a health care practi-
tioner from failing to exercise the proper degree of
care in the case of a child who survives an abortion
or attempted abortion. Pages S1414–1422
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. 27), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to
consideration of the bill. Page S1422
Washington’s Farewell Address: Senator Fischer
performed the traditional reading of Washington’s
Farewell Address. Pages S1405–09
Miller Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Eric D. Miller, of
Washington, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit. Page S1422
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 51 yeas to 46 nays (Vote No. 28), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S1422
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday,
February 26, 2019; and that all time during recess,
adjournment, morning business, and Leader remarks
count post-cloture on the nomination. Page S1443
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Brian McGuire, of New York, to be a Deputy
Under Secretary of the Treasury.
David Michael Satterfield, of Missouri, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Turkey.
Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary
for Strategy, Policy, and Plans, Department of
Homeland Security.
Michael Eric Wooten, of Virginia, to be Adminis-
trator for Federal Procurement Policy.
Michael D. Baughman, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States Marshal for the Western District of
Pennsylvania for the term of four years.
William Travis Brown, Jr., of Louisiana, to be
United States Marshal for the Middle District of
Louisiana for the term of four years.
Gary B. Burman, of Kentucky, to be United
States Marshal for the Western District of Kentucky
for the term of four years.
Wing Chau, of Rhode Island, to be United States
Marshal for the District of Rhode Island for the term
of four years.
Ramona L. Dohman, of Minnesota, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Minnesota for the
term of four years.
Eric S. Gartner, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States Marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsyl-
vania for the term of four years.
Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia, to be United
States Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia
for the term of four years.
2 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
4 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S1443–45
Messages from the House: Page S1436
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D176 February 25, 2019
Executive Communications: Page S1436
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1437–38
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S1439
Additional Statements: Pages S1435–36
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S1439
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—28) Page S1422
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:46 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday,
February 26, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S1443.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Appropriations: Committee adopted its
rules of procedure for the 116th Congress.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 29 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1327–1355; and 4 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 49; and H. Res. 143, 146–147, were intro-
duced. Pages H2099–H2101
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2102–03
Reports Filed:Reports were filed today as follows:
H. Res. 144, providing for consideration of the
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 46) relating to a national
emergency declared by the President on February 15,
2019 (H. Rept. 116–13); and
H. Res. 145, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 8) to require a background check for every
firearm sale, and providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 1112) to amend chapter 44 of title 18,
United States Code, to strengthen the background
check procedures to be followed before a Federal fire-
arms licensee may transfer a firearm to a person who
is not such a licensee (H. Rept. 116–14). Page H2068
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Raskin to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H2049
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H2049, H2067–68
Recess: The House recessed at 2:07 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:30 p.m. Page H2050
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Preventing Illegal Radio Abuse Through En-
forcement Act: H.R. 583, to amend the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 to provide for enhanced pen-
alties for pirate radio; Pages H2050–52
Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of
2019: H.R. 501, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to reauthorize and enhance the poison center na-
tional toll-free number, national media campaign,
and grant program; Pages H2052–53
Strengthening the Health Care Fraud Preven-
tion Task Force Act of 2019: H.R. 525, to amend
title XI of the Social Security Act to direct the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services to establish a
public-private partnership for purposes of identifying
health care waste, fraud, and abuse; Pages H2053–55
Innovators to Entrepreneurs Act of 2019: H.R.
539, to require the Director of the National Science
Foundation to develop an I–Corps course to support
commercialization-ready innovation companies, by a
2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 385 yeas to 18 nays, Roll
No. 88; Pages H2055–58, H2064–65
Supporting Veterans in STEM Careers Act:
H.R. 425, to promote veteran involvement in STEM
education, computer science, and scientific research;
Pages H2058–60
Recognizing Achievement in Classified School
Employees Act: H.R. 276, to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing Inspiring
School Employees (RISE) Award Program recog-
nizing excellence exhibited by classified school em-
ployees providing services to students in prekinder-
garten through high school, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 387 yeas to 19 nays, Roll No. 89; and
Pages H2060–62, H2067
Merit Systems Protection Board Temporary
Term Extension Act: H.R. 1235, amended, to pro-
vide that the term of office of certain members of
the Merit Systems Protection Board shall be ex-
tended by a period of 1 year, to limit such members
from concurrently holding positions within the Fed-
eral Government; Pages H2062–64
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D177
February 25, 2019
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To pro-
vide that the term of office of certain members of
the Merit Systems Protection Board shall be ex-
tended by a period of 1 year, and for other pur-
poses.’’. Page H2064
Recess: The House recessed at 5:46 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H2064
Resignation of the Clerk of the House: Read a
letter from Karen L. Haas, in which she announced
her resignation as Clerk of the House of Representa-
tives, effective midnight on February 25, 2019.
Page H2065
Electing the Clerk of the House of Representa-
tives: The House agreed to H. Res. 143, electing
the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
Page H2066
Administration of the Oath of Office to the
Clerk of the House: The Speaker administered the
Oath of Office to Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House of Representatives. Page H2066
Enacting into law a bill by reference: The House
agreed to take from the Speaker’s table and pass S.
483, to enact into law a bill by reference, as amend-
ed by Representative Peterson. Pages H2068–87
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H2064–65 and H2067. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 2 p.m. and ad-
journed at 8:47 p.m.
Committee Meetings
RELATING TO A NATIONAL EMERGENCY
DECLARED BY THE PRESIDENT ON
FEBRUARY 15, 2019; BIPARTISAN
BACKGROUND CHECKS ACT OF 2019;
ENHANCED BACKGROUND CHECKS ACT
OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.J. Res. 46, relating to a national emergency de-
clared by the President on February 15, 2019; H.R.
8, the ‘‘Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019’’;
and H.R. 1112, the ‘‘Enhanced Background Checks
Act of 2019’’. The Committee granted, by record
vote of 8–4, a structured rule providing for consider-
ation of H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks
Act of 2019, and H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Back-
ground Checks Act of 2019. The rule provides one
hour of general debate on the bill equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on the Judiciary. The rule
waives all points of order against consideration of the
bill. The rule makes in order as original text for pur-
pose of amendment an amendment in the nature of
a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 116–5 and provides that it shall be
considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against that amendment in the nature of a
substitute. The rule makes in order only those
amendments printed in part A of the Rules Com-
mittee report accompanying the resolution. Each
such amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by a
Member designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
part A of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. Section 2
of the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 1112,
the Enhanced Background Checks Act of 2019,
under a structured rule. The rule provides one hour
of general debate on the bill equally divided and
controlled by the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on the Judiciary. The rule
waives all points of order against consideration of the
bill. The rule provides that an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–6 shall be considered as
adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as read. The rule waives all points of order
against provisions in the bill, as amended. The rule
makes in order only those further amendments print-
ed in part B of the Rules Committee report. Each
such amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by a
Member designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
part B of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. The Com-
mittee granted, by record vote of 8–4, a closed rule
providing for consideration of H.J. Res. 46, relating
to a national emergency declared by the President on
February 15, 2019. The rule provides one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure. The rule waives
all points of order against consideration of the joint
resolution. The rule provides that the joint resolu-
tion shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D178 February 25, 2019
points of order against provisions in the joint resolu-
tion. The rule provides one motion to recommit. Fi-
nally, the rule provides that the provisions of section
202 of the National Emergencies Act shall not apply
during the remainder of the One Hundred Sixteenth
Congress to a joint resolution terminating the na-
tional emergency declared by the President on Feb-
ruary 15, 2019. Testimony was heard by Chairman
Nadler and Representatives Collins, Lesko, Arm-
strong, Cline, and Gianforte.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D104)
H. J. Res. 31, making further continuing appro-
priations for the Department of Homeland Security
for fiscal year 2019. Signed on February 15, 2019.
(Public Law 116–6)
H.R. 439, to amend the charter of the Future
Farmers of America. Signed on February 21, 2019.
(Public Law 116–7)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 26, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
United States Strategic Command and United States
Northern Command in review of the Defense Authoriza-
tion Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years
Defense Program, 9:30 a.m., SH–216.
Subcommittee on Airland, to receive a closed briefing
on the B–21 ‘‘Raider’’, 3 p.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: busi-
ness meeting to consider the nominations of Mark An-
thony Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency, Bimal Patel, of Georgia, to be
an Assistant Secretary, and Dino Falaschetti, of Montana,
to be Director, Office of Financial Research, both of the
Department of the Treasury, Todd M. Harper, of Vir-
ginia, and Rodney Hood, of North Carolina, both to be
a Member of the National Credit Union Administration
Board, Spencer Bachus III, of Alabama, and Judith
DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, both to be a Member of the
Board of Directors, and Kimberly A. Reed, of West Vir-
ginia, to be President, all of the Export-Import Bank of
the United States, and Seth Daniel Appleton, of Missouri,
and Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Virginia, both to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; to
be immediately followed by a hearing to examine the
Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress, 9:30
a.m., SD–106.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Transportation and Safety, to hold hearings
to examine connecting America, focusing on intermodal
connections across our surface transportation network,
2:30 p.m., SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the state of the U.S. territories, 10 a.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine drug
pricing in America, 10:15 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Judiciary: Subcommittee on Intellectual
Property, to hold hearings to examine the 2019 Annual
Intellectual Property Report to Congress, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold a joint hearing
with the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to exam-
ine the legislative presentation of the Disabled American
Veterans, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled
‘‘Public Witness Hearing’’, 9 a.m., 2007 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight Hearing: Un-
derstanding the Changing Climate System and the Role
of Climate Research’’, 10 a.m., H–309 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Gov-
ernment, hearing entitled ‘‘Leveraging Private Capital for
Underserved Communities and Individuals: A look into
Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs)’’,
10 a.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, budget hearing
on the Architect of the Capitol, 10 a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies oversight hearing on Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, 10 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, budget hearing
on the Congressional Budget Office, 11 a.m., HT–2, The
Capitol.
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Public Witness Hearing’’,
12:45 p.m., 2007 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Readi-
ness; and Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection
Forces, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Naval Surface Forces Read-
iness: Are Navy Reforms Adequate?’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, hearing entitled
‘‘INF Withdrawal and the Future of Arms Control: Im-
plications for the Security of the United States and its Al-
lies’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Intelligence and Emerging Threats
and Capabilities, hearing entitled ‘‘Department of Defense
Information Technology, Cybersecurity, and Information
Assurance’’, 2 p.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 865, the ‘‘Rebuild America’s Schools
Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 7, the ‘‘Paycheck Fairness Act’’,
10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D179
February 25, 2019
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce, hearing entitled
‘‘Protecting Consumer Privacy in the Era of Big Data’’,
10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘EPA’s Enforcement Program: Taking the Envi-
ronmental Cop Off the Beat’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Who’s Keeping Score? Holding Credit Bureaus
Accountable and Repairing a Broken System’’, 10 a.m.,
2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Asia, the
Pacific, and Nonproliferation, hearing entitled ‘‘On the
Eve of the Summit: Options for U.S. Diplomacy on
North Korea’’, 10:15 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Civilian
Security, and Trade, hearing entitled ‘‘Made by Maduro:
The Humanitarian Crisis in Venezuela and U.S. Policy
Responses’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global
Human Rights, and International Organizations, hearing
entitled ‘‘A Global Crisis: Refugees, Migrants and Asy-
lum Seekers’’, 2 p.m., 2200 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Trans-
portation and Maritime Security; and the Subcommittee
on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Innova-
tion, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Securing U.S. Surface Trans-
portation from Cyber Attacks’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 1, a bill to expand Americans’ access to
the ballot box, reduce the influence of big money in poli-
tics, and strengthen ethics rules for public servants, and
for other purposes, or a related measure, and for other
purposes, 1 p.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the Trump Administration’s Family
Separation Policy’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘The State of
Water Supply Reliability in the 21st Century’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Denial Playbook: How Industries Manipu-
late Science and Policy from Climate Change to Public
Health’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
business meeting to consider A Resolution Offered by
Chairman Elijah E. Cummings Authorizing Issuance of
Subpoenas Related to Child Separation Policy, 9:30 a.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of ARP–E’’, 10
a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions, Oversight, and Regulations, hearing entitled ‘‘Shut-
down Lessons: SBA Capital Access Programs’’, 10 a.m.,
2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining How Federal Infra-
structure Policy Could Help Mitigate and Adapt to Cli-
mate Change’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘National Security Implications
of the Rise of Authoritarianism Around the World’’, 10
a.m., 210 Cannon.
Joint Meetings
Joint Hearing: Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
to hold a joint hearing with the House Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs to examine the legislative presentation of
the Disabled American Veterans, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of February 26 through March 1, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, post-cloture.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Feb-
ruary 28, to hold hearings to examine implementing the
Agriculture Improvement Act, 9:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Appropriations: February 28, Subcommittee
on Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education, and Related Agencies, to hold hearings to
examine addressing the opioid epidemic in America, fo-
cusing on prevention, treatment, and recovery at the state
and local level, 10 a.m., SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: February 26, to hold hear-
ings to examine United States Strategic Command and
United States Northern Command in review of the De-
fense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the
Future Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m., SH–216.
February 26, Subcommittee on Airland, to receive a
closed briefing on the B–21 ‘‘Raider’’, 3 p.m., SVC–217.
February 27, Subcommittee on Personnel, to hold an
oversight hearing to examine military personnel policies
and military family readiness, 2:30 p.m., SR–222.
February 27, Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, to re-
ceive a closed briefing on Department of Defense cyber
operations, 2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
February 28, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine nuclear policy and posture, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Feb-
ruary 26, business meeting to consider the nominations
of Mark Anthony Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director of
the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Bimal Patel, of
Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary, and Dino
Falaschetti, of Montana, to be Director, Office of Finan-
cial Research, both of the Department of the Treasury,
Todd M. Harper, of Virginia, and Rodney Hood, of
North Carolina, both to be a Member of the National
Credit Union Administration Board, Spencer Bachus III,
of Alabama, and Judith DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, both
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D180 February 25, 2019
to be a Member of the Board of Directors, and Kimberly
A. Reed, of West Virginia, to be President, all of the Ex-
port-Import Bank of the United States, and Seth Daniel
Appleton, of Missouri, and Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Vir-
ginia, both to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development; to be immediately followed by a
hearing to examine the Semiannual Monetary Policy Re-
port to the Congress, 9:30 a.m., SD–106.
February 28, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine legislative proposals on capital formation and cor-
porate governance, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on the Budget: February 27, to hold hearings
to examine the Budget Control Act, focusing on a review
of cap-adjusted spending, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Feb-
ruary 26, Subcommittee on Transportation and Safety, to
hold hearings to examine connecting America, focusing
on intermodal connections across our surface transpor-
tation network, 2:30 p.m., SD–562.
February 27, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine policy principles for a Federal data privacy frame-
work in the United States, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: February 26,
to hold hearings to examine the state of the U.S. terri-
tories, 10 a.m., SD–366.
February 28, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine prospects for global energy markets, focusing on
the role of the United States and perspectives from the
International Energy Agency, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: February 27,
to hold hearings to examine S. 383, to support carbon di-
oxide utilization and direct air capture research, to facili-
tate the permitting and development of carbon capture,
utilization, and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide
pipelines, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: February 26, to hold hearings to
examine drug pricing in America, 10:15 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: February 27, to hold
hearings to examine assessing the role of the United
States in the world, 10:15 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
February 27, to hold hearings to examine protecting the
electric grid from an electromagnetic pulse or geo-
magnetic disturbance, 2:30 p.m., SD–106.
February 28, Permanent Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions, to hold hearings to examine China’s impact on the
United States education system, 10 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: February 27, to hold an
oversight hearing to examine the 45th anniversary of the
Native American Programs Act and the establishment of
the Administration for Native Americans, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–628.
Committee on Judiciary: February 26, Subcommittee on
Intellectual Property, to hold hearings to examine the
2019 Annual Intellectual Property Report to Congress,
10 a.m., SD–226.
February 28, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider the nominations of Neomi J. Rao, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit,
Joseph F. Bianco, of New York, and Michael H. Park, of
New York, both to be a United States Circuit Judge for
the Second Circuit, Greg Girard Guidry, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
Michael T. Liburdi, to be United States District Judge
for the District of Arizona, Peter D. Welte, to be United
States District Judge for the District of North Dakota,
Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, and Travis LeBlanc, of Mary-
land, both to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Lib-
erties Oversight Board, and Drew H. Wrigley, to be
United States Attorney for the District of North Dakota,
Department of Justice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Feb-
ruary 27, to hold hearings to examine the future of
American industry, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: February 26, to hold a
joint hearing with the House Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs to examine the legislative presentation of the Dis-
abled American Veterans, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
February 27, Full Committee, to hold a joint hearing
with the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to exam-
ine the legislative presentation of The American Legion,
10 a.m., SD–G50.
Select Committee on Intelligence: February 28, to receive a
closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, February 27, Full Committee,
business meeting to consider the Budget Views and Esti-
mates Letter of the Committee on Agriculture for the
Agencies and Programs under the Jurisdiction of the
Committee for Fiscal Year 2020, 9:30 a.m., 1300 Long-
worth.
February 27, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The
State of the Rural Economy’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, February 27, Subcommittee
on Financial Services and General Government, hearing
entitled ‘‘Election Security: Ensuring the Integrity of U.S.
Election Systems’’, 10 a.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on the Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Re-
lated Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Reviewing the Adminis-
tration’s Unaccompanied Children Program: State-Sanc-
tioned Child Abuse’’, 10 a.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on Legislative Branch,
budget hearing on the Government Accountability Office,
10 a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
February 27, Subcommittee on Military Construction,
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled
‘‘The President’s 2019 National Emergency Declaration
Circumventing Congress to Build a Border Wall and Its
Effect on Military Construction and Readiness’’, 2 p.m.,
2359 Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight
of U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID),
Programs and Policies’’, 10 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on the Departments of
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Stakeholder Per-
spectives: Fair Housing’’, 10 a.m., 2358–A Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D181
February 25, 2019
February 27, Subcommittee on Legislative Branch,
budget hearing on the Government Publishing Office, 11
a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
February 27, Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural De-
velopment, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies, oversight hearing on the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, 2 p.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
February 28, Subcommittee on Military Construction,
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled
‘‘Female Veterans Access to VA’’, 10 a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Committee on Armed Services, February 27, Subcommittee
on Military Personnel, hearing entitled ‘‘Transgender
Service Policy’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, February 27, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘2017 Tax Law: Impact on the Budget
and American Families’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, February 27, Sub-
committee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Sec-
ondary Education, hearing entitled ‘‘Classrooms in Crisis:
Examining the Inappropriate Use of Seclusion and Re-
straint Practices’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections,
hearing entitled ‘‘Caring for Our Caregivers: Protecting
Health Care and Social Service Workers from Workplace
Violence’’, 2 p.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, February 27, Sub-
committee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Confronting a Growing Public Health Threat: Mea-
sles Outbreaks in the U.S.’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on Energy, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Clean Energy Infrastructure and the Workforce to
Build It’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
February 28, Subcommittee on Environment and Cli-
mate Change, hearing entitled ‘‘We’ll Always Have Paris:
Filling the Leadership Void Caused by Federal Inaction
on Climate Change’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, February 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Monetary Policy and the State
of the Economy’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on Diversity and Inclusion
will hold a hearing entitled ‘‘An Overview of Diversity
Trends in the Financial Services Industry’’, 2 p.m., 2128
Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, February 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Trump Administration’s
Foreign Policy: A Mid-Term Assessment’’, 10 a.m., 2172
Rayburn.
February 27, Subcommittee on Oversight and Inves-
tigations, hearing entitled ‘‘America’s Global Leadership:
Why Diplomacy and Development Matter’’, 2 p.m., 2172
Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, February 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing on ‘‘Securing out Nation’s Chemical Fa-
cilities: Building on the Progress of the CFATS Pro-
gram’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, February 28, Subcommittee
on Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing
entitled ‘‘The National Emergencies Act of 1976’’, 12
p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, February 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing on H.R. 560, the ‘‘Northern Mariana Is-
lands Residents Relief Act’’, 10:30 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, February 27, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing with Michael
Cohen, Former Attorney to President Donald Trump’’, 10
a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
February 28, Subcommittee on Government Oper-
ations, hearing entitled ‘‘Effects of Vacancies at the Merit
Systems Protection Board’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, February 27,
Subcommittee on Environment, hearing entitled ‘‘Sea
Change: Impacts of Climate Change on Our Oceans and
Coasts’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, February 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Supporting America’s Startups:
Review of SBA Entrepreneurial Development Programs’’,
11 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, February
27, Full Committee, business meeting on Fiscal Year
2020 Budget Views and Estimates of the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure; and markup on H.Con.
Res. 16, authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for
the National Peace Officers Memorial Service and the Na-
tional Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition; H.Con.
Res. 19, authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for
the Greater Washington Soap Box Derby; H.R. 1318, to
direct the Library of Congress to obtain a stain glassed
panel depicting the seal of the District of Columbia and
install the panel among the stained glass panels depicting
the seals of States which overlook the Main Reading
Room of the Library of Congress Thomas Jefferson Build-
ing; H.R. 639, to amend section 327 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to
clarify that National Urban Search and Rescue Response
System task forces may include Federal employees, 10
a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, February 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘VA 2030: A Vision for the Fu-
ture of VA’’, 2 p.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Ways and Means, February 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S.-China Trade’’, 10 a.m.,
1100 Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Joint Hearing: February 26, Senate Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, to hold a joint hearing with the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to examine the legislative
presentation of the Disabled American Veterans, 2 p.m.,
SD–G50.
February 27, Full Committee, to hold a joint hearing
with the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to exam-
ine the legislative presentation of The American Legion,
10 a.m., SD–G50.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D182 February 25, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, February 26
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Eric D. Miller, of Wash-
ington, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, post-cloture.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, February 26
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of H.J. Res. 46—
Relating to a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019 (Subject to a Rule). Consider-
ation of measures under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E206
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E203
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E203
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E204
Cook, Paul, Calif., E200, E201, E202, E204, E205
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E200
Foxx, Virginia, N.C., E205
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E200, E203
Hayes, Jahana, Conn., E207
Kinzinger, Adam, Ill., E206
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E201, E203, E204, E205
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E201
Pappas, Chris, N.H., E200
Pascrell, Bill, Jr., N.J., E200
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E199
Posey, Bill, Fla., E202
Schneider, Bradley Scott, Ill., E199
Serrano, José E., N.Y., E202, E204, E205, E206
Sewell, Terri A., Ala., E207
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E202
Stevens, Haley M., Mich., E199
Suozzi, Thomas R., N.Y., E201
Tipton, Scott R., Colo., E199
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E206
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:54 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D25FE9.REC D25FEPT1
