Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2617
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019 No. 43
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. KILDEE).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
March 11, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable DAN-
IEL T. KILDEE to act as Speaker pro
tempore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
NEBRASKA CAREER PROGRAMS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. SMITH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to highlight several efforts in
my Nebraska congressional district
which prepare Nebraskans to join the
workforce and encourage entrepreneur-
ship.
I visited the New Heavy Equipment
Operator Training program at the Has-
tings Campus of Central Community
College. It provides both training and
hands-on experience with heavy con-
struction equipment.
Grand Island Public Schools actually
has partnered with the Career Path-
ways Institute to offer courses on sub-
jects ranging from business and mar-
keting to human services and health
science.
Arnold High School’s only School
House Graphic Products teaches stu-
dents about technology, design, and
business, with the opportunity to earn
college credit through Mid-Plains Com-
munity College.
And Scottsbluff High School recently
launched its career academies, includ-
ing agriculture, business, and technical
sciences.
These are just a few of the home-
grown initiatives from across the State
of Nebraska which are making a dif-
ference in the lives of Nebraskans,
strengthening our workforce, and
growing the economy.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 2 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. KILDEE) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Meg Peery McLaughlin,
Burke Presbyterian Church, Burke,
Virginia, offered the following prayer:
O God, our help in ages past, our hope
for years to come, in You we live and
move and have our being.
Amid these public servants, gathered
to govern as they swore to do, we in-
voke Your presence, O God, greater
than we can ever grasp, and as near as
the intake of our own breath.
Expose our stubborn bias that de-
prives our life. Reconstruct relation-
ships to enliven joy in the work ahead.
Ignite our integrity and right-size us in
our britches. Refuse our apathy with
an outpouring of Your hope. Untangle
our pride and pain, allowing room for
Your truth to creep in and guide our
way.
We make this prayer resting in the
promise that we belong to You, and
thus to one another.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause one, rule I, the
Journal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. WILLIAMS)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WILLIAMS led the Pledge of Al-
legiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
CONGRATULATING CARUTHERS
GIRLS BASKETBALL TEAM
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for one minute and to revise and ex-
tend his remarks.)
Mr. COX of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate the
Caruthers girls basketball team, our
CIF Division V State Basketball Cham-
pions.
On Friday afternoon, despite playing
a school with roughly four times the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.000 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2618 March 11, 2019
enrollment, our Blue Raiders rolled to
an impressive 62 to 38 victory over Ra-
mona-Riverside.
Friday’s victory is a testament that
hard work, practice, and teamwork is a
recipe for success in any arena.
Coach Almeida put it best when she
said her girls are, ‘‘Winners by nature.
They’re fighters and tough and never
give up.’’
I am proud to represent: Anna Mar-
shall, Eshnoor Gasoj, Felicia Ramirez,
Jacklyn Kulow, Kathleen Duran, Des-
tiny Giles, Jennyfer Balino, Paige
Sterling, Aileen Cortez, Elvis Ponce,
Jaque Magana, Malia Ishii, Mikayla
Duran, and Jasmine Torres.
I am excited to see their future vic-
tories and the success I know they will
continue to have on the court and in
life.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
congratulating the Blue Raiders, our
Division V California State Basketball
Champions.
f
RECOGNIZING USMC LANCE
CORPORAL PLUNK
(Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for
one minute.)
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to take this time to recognize a
member of the United States Marine
Corps from the 25th District of Texas,
Lance Corporal Alyssa Joy Plunk.
On December 20, 2018, a little over a
year into her enlistment, the U.S. Ma-
rine Corps took notice of her impres-
sive level of leadership and awarded
her the Navy and Marine Corps
Achievement Medal.
During a training operation, she was
tasked with transporting a number of
people and cargo over 700 miles. Her re-
view stated that her superior pro-
ficiency enabled her to negotiate chal-
lenging conditions without any inci-
dents.
She was awarded for the professional
achievement she demonstrated during
this operation and for a job well done.
I think it goes without saying that
the men and women who make up our
Armed Forces are a unique bunch that
embodies everything that is good about
America.
They serve our country selflessly,
and for that, I am eternally grateful.
I appreciate Lance Corporal Plunk’s
dedication to her country and am
proud of all that she has already
achieved in a short amount of time.
I am praying for her safety while she
is deployed and look forward to her re-
turn.
God bless the United States Marine
Corps.
In God We Trust.
f
THE ONGOING OPIOID CRISIS
(Mr. KATKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for
one minute.)
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to bring attention to the role of
fentanyl and other synthetic analogs in
the ongoing opioid crisis facing our Na-
tion.
Thousands of Americans die each
year as a result of overdoses caused by
these dangerous substances, which
mimic the effects of street drugs, but
are significantly more powerful and
more dangerous.
During last week’s Homeland Secu-
rity hearing, I asked Secretary Nielsen
about any recent significant seizures of
fentanyl at America’s borders. Sec-
retary Nielsen’s response was abso-
lutely frightening, as she informed the
committee that the amount of fentanyl
seized by ICE in the last year alone was
enough to kill every living American
twice.
This statistic should trouble each
and every one of my colleagues. Con-
gress must take immediate action to
ensure law enforcement has all the nec-
essary tools to prevent illicit synthetic
opioids from entering the country.
My bill last Congress, the Stop the
Importation and Trafficking of Syn-
thetic Analogues Act, would have ad-
dressed these issues, and I intend to re-
introduce that bill in a similar legisla-
tion form in the coming months.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in the critical effort to combat
substance abuse and save American
lives.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 4 of rule I, the following
enrolled bill was signed by the Speaker
on Friday, March 8, 2019:
S. 49, to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in
North Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent
Taylor Vet Center Outstation.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 7 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1601
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. COX of California) at 4
o’clock and 1 minute p.m.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Ms. Mariel
Ridgway, one of his secretaries.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER MOBIL-
ITY DEMONSTRATION ACT OF
2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1122) to authorize the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development to
carry out a housing choice voucher mo-
bility demonstration to encourage fam-
ilies receiving such voucher assistance
to move to lower-poverty areas and ex-
pand access to opportunity areas.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1122
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Housing
Choice Voucher Mobility Demonstration Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER MOBILITY
DEMONSTRATION.
(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) may carry out
a mobility demonstration program to enable
public housing agencies to administer hous-
ing choice voucher assistance under section
8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 1937
(42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) in a manner designed to
encourage families receiving such voucher
assistance to move to lower-poverty areas
and expand access to opportunity areas.
(b) SELECTION OF PHAS.—
(1) REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish requirements for public housing
agencies to participate in the demonstration
program under this section, which shall pro-
vide that the following public housing agen-
cies may participate:
(A) Public housing agencies that to-
gether—
(i) serve areas with high concentrations of
holders of rental assistance vouchers under
section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) in poor, low-oppor-
tunity neighborhoods; and
(ii) have an adequate number of mod-
erately priced rental units in higher-oppor-
tunity areas.
(B) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) include at least one agency with a high-
performing Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS)
program; and
(ii) will enable participating families to
continue in such program if they relocate to
the jurisdiction served by any other agency
of the consortium.
(C) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) serve jurisdictions within a single re-
gion;
(ii) include one or more small agencies;
and
(iii) will consolidate mobility focused oper-
ations.
(D) Such other public housing agencies as
the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2) SELECTION CRITERIA.—The Secretary
shall establish competitive selection criteria
for public housing agencies eligible under
paragraph (1) to participate in the dem-
onstration program under this section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.003 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2619
March 11, 2019
(3) RANDOM SELECTION OF FAMILIES.—The
Secretary may require participating agen-
cies to use a randomized selection process to
select among the families eligible to receive
mobility assistance under the demonstration
program.
(c) REGIONAL HOUSING MOBILITY PLAN.—
The Secretary shall require each public
housing agency applying to participate in
the demonstration program under this sec-
tion to submit a Regional Housing Mobility
Plan (in this section referred to as a ‘‘Plan’’),
which shall—
(1) identify the public housing agencies
that will participate under the Plan and the
number of vouchers each participating agen-
cy will make available out of their existing
programs in connection with the demonstra-
tion;
(2) identify any community-based organi-
zations, nonprofit organizations, businesses,
and other entities that will participate under
the Plan and describe the commitments for
such participation made by each such entity;
(3) identify any waivers or alternative re-
quirements requested for the execution of
the Plan;
(4) identify any specific actions that the
public housing agencies and other entities
will undertake to accomplish the goals of the
demonstration, which shall include a com-
prehensive approach to enable a successful
transition to opportunity areas and may in-
clude counseling and continued support for
families;
(5) specify the criteria that the public
housing agencies would use to identify op-
portunity areas under the plan;
(6) provide for establishment of priority
and preferences for participating families,
including a preference for families with
young children, as such term is defined by
the Secretary, based on regional housing
needs and priorities; and
(7) comply with any other requirements es-
tablished by the Secretary.
(d) FUNDING FOR MOBILITY-RELATED SERV-
ICES.—
(1) USE OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.—Public
housing agencies participating in the dem-
onstration program under this section may
use administrative fees under section 8(q) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437f(q)), their administrative fee re-
serves, and funding from private entities to
provide mobility-related services in connec-
tion with the demonstration program, in-
cluding services such as counseling, port-
ability coordination, landlord outreach, se-
curity deposits, and administrative activi-
ties associated with establishing and oper-
ating regional mobility programs.
(2) USE OF HOUSING ASSISTANCE FUNDS.—
Public housing agencies participating in the
demonstration under this section may use
housing assistance payments funds under
section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) for security depos-
its if necessary to enable families to lease
units with vouchers in designated oppor-
tunity areas.
(e) WAIVERS; ALTERNATIVE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
(1) WAIVERS.—To allow for public housing
agencies to implement and administer their
Regional Housing Mobility Plans, the Sec-
retary may waive or specify alternative re-
quirements for the following provisions of
the United States Housing Act of 1937:
(A) Sections 8(o)(7)(A) and 8(o)(13)(E)(i) (re-
lating to the term of a lease and mobility re-
quirements).
(B) Section 8(o)(13)(C)(i) (relating to the
public housing plan for an agency).
(C) Section 8(r)(2) (relating to the responsi-
bility of a public housing agency to admin-
ister ported assistance).
(2) ALTERNATIVE REQUIREMENTS.—The Sec-
retary shall provide additional authority for
public housing agencies in a selected region
to form a consortium that has a single hous-
ing choice voucher funding contract, or to
enter into a partial consortium to operate
all or portions of the Regional Housing Mo-
bility Plan, including agencies participating
in the Moving To Work Demonstration pro-
gram.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Any waiver or alter-
native requirements pursuant to this sub-
section shall not take effect before the expi-
ration of the 10-day period beginning upon
publication of notice of such waiver or alter-
native requirement in the Federal Register.
(f) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary may
implement the demonstration, including its
terms, procedures, requirements, and condi-
tions, by notice.
(g) EVALUATION.—Not later than 5 years
after implementation of the regional housing
mobility programs under the demonstration
program under this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Congress and publish in
the Federal Register a report evaluating the
effectiveness of the strategies pursued under
the demonstration, subject to the avail-
ability of funding to conduct the evaluation.
Through official websites and other methods,
the Secretary shall disseminate interim find-
ings as they become available, and shall, if
promising strategies are identified, notify
the Congress of the amount of funds that
would be required to expand the testing of
these strategies in additional types of public
housing agencies and housing markets.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks on this
legislation and to insert extraneous
material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, rigorous studies have
demonstrated that giving a low-income
family an opportunity to move to a
lower-poverty neighborhood can have a
profound impact, particularly for chil-
dren.
For example, one study found that
young boys and girls in families that
used a voucher to move to lower-pov-
erty neighborhoods were 32 percent
more likely to attend college and
earned 31 percent more, or nearly $3,500
a year, compared to their counterparts
in families who did not receive a
voucher.
Unfortunately, families with housing
choice vouchers who want to move to a
better neighborhood can face signifi-
cant challenges, particularly if it in-
volves moving from one public housing
agency jurisdiction to another. In fact,
data shows that only one in eight fami-
lies with children with a housing
choice voucher use their vouchers to
live in lower-poverty areas.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1122 would help re-
duce barriers to mobility by estab-
lishing a demonstration program that
would enable and incentivize public
housing agencies to come together to
come up with a regional plan to in-
crease mobility across their jurisdic-
tions.
This is a bipartisan proposal that was
included in HUD budget requests under
the Obama administration. Further,
$25 million in funding for this dem-
onstration was included in fiscal year
2019 funding bill for HUD programs,
and a version of this bill passed the
House last Congress 368 to 19.
This demonstration will not only
provide thousands of families with op-
portunities to move to better neighbor-
hoods, but it will also lay the founda-
tion for how successful outcomes can
be replicated at a larger scale across
the country.
I congratulate the gentleman from
Missouri (Mr. CLEAVER) and the gen-
tleman from Wisconsin (Mr. DUFFY) for
introducing this initiative.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1122, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1122, the Housing Choice Voucher Mo-
bility Demonstration Act of 2019.
As currently administered, housing
vouchers often are insufficient in help-
ing American families get access to
neighborhoods with greater opportuni-
ties. That is why H.R. 1122 is so impor-
tant.
A strong body of research shows that
growing up in a safe, lower-poverty
neighborhood with good schools im-
proves children’s academic achieve-
ment and long-term chances of success,
and may reduce intergenerational pov-
erty.
A recent groundbreaking Harvard
study found that young children in
families who used housing vouchers to
move to better neighborhoods fared
much better as young adults than simi-
lar children who remained in ex-
tremely poor neighborhoods.
The Harvard study found that young
boys and girls in families who use a
voucher to move to lower-poverty
neighborhoods were 32 percent more
likely to attend college and earned 31
percent more as young adults than
their counterparts in families who did
not receive an MTO voucher. Girls in
families who moved to lower-poverty
neighborhoods were also 30 percent less
likely to be single parents as adults.
And let us not forget that location
also affects adults in many ways, such
as access to jobs, the cost of getting to
work, the feasibility of balancing child
care responsibilities with work sched-
ules, and other basic goods and serv-
ices.
Voucher mobility is key to enabling
families with children to move to safer
neighborhoods with less poverty, there-
by enhancing their chances of long-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:15 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.003 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2620 March 11, 2019
term health and success. H.R. 1122 will
provide the foundation for many of
these key changes.
I thank Mr. DUFFY and Mr. CLEAVER
for their hard work in looking into this
issue and providing evidence-based so-
lutions to affect positive change in
families and communities.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of H.R.
1122, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Mis-
souri (Mr. CLEAVER), the chair of the
Subcommittee on National Security,
International Development and Mone-
tary Policy.
Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, this
piece of legislation is particularly sig-
nificant to me. I lived in public housing
for 5 years. I saw what the possibilities
were there. I saw people who did not
make it, and I saw people who did made
it.
The one thing that I found difficult
to accept was the fact that if you lived
in public housing, almost every rule
made was designed, unintentionally, to
keep you in public housing.
My father didn’t tell the truth about
the fact that he was cleaning up at an
office building on Saturday earning
some additional money and then serv-
ing at parties on the weekends. He had
to pretend that that didn’t happen be-
cause he was saving money trying to
get our family in our own home. And it
worked. He is watching C–SPAN right
now, hearing his son talk about what
could have happened.
The essence of this bill was passed as
a part of the appropriations package
that was signed into law earlier this
year. It promotes housing mobility for
individuals who rely on housing vouch-
ers.
Under this bill, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development would
establish a demonstration program to
allow interested public housing agen-
cies to form consortia to enhance mo-
bility and provide residents with in-
creased opportunity to move to higher-
income communities.
There is something contagious about
working around only poor people. If
you live in a neighborhood and all you
see are people who are struggling, it is
easy to come to the conclusion that
that is the way life is: that you are just
supposed to struggle and that you are
just supposed to barely make it. If you
don’t see the signs of people who are
making progress—people who are
achieving—you might come to the con-
clusion that achievement is beyond
one’s reach.
This was demonstrated with a re-
search project from Harvard econo-
mists Raj Chetty, Nathaniel Hendren,
and Lawrence Katz which indicates
that children who move to higher-op-
portunity neighborhoods increase their
chances of success. More specifically,
the study found that children who were
able to use housing vouchers to move
to lower-poverty areas were 32 percent
more likely to attend college and
earned 31 percent more a year than
their counterparts in lower-income
neighborhoods.
This bill removes barriers by pro-
viding families with the tools to navi-
gate a move from one neighborhood to
another. H.R. 1122 will allow more fam-
ilies to thrive by increasing their ac-
cess to higher performing schools, em-
ployment opportunities, fresh and
affordably priced foods, and safe play-
grounds.
There is something about homeown-
ership or living in a nice neighborhood.
Our family was able to move out. My
father bought a house in a White neigh-
borhood where we could not live and
had it moved at night from the Mid-
western Parkway to Gerald Street,
where my father lives today. And, my
goodness, I wish the world could see
what transpired.
My father’s yard is in contention
with any yard in town for the yard of
the summer. We had a water shortage
in Texas—we had a drought, a serious
drought 38 years ago—and my father
would get up at 3 a.m. in the morning
to trick the city people who would
come out checking to see if anybody
was violating the water ordinance by
watering his lawn at 2, 3, or 4 a.m. in
the morning.
While I am confessing my father
broke the law, the truth of the matter
is that it pleased me because we had
never had a yard in my life until we
were able to get out of public housing.
So not only does it give the children an
opportunity for a higher achievement
educationally, but it also does some-
thing for the homeowner.
This bill removes barriers, and I am
supportive of that.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 1 minute to the gentleman
from Missouri.
Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague, friend, and former neigh-
bor, SEAN DUFFY, who worked with me
on this bill. And I also thank the chair
and the ranking member of the com-
mittee for their continued support.
With this, I am hopeful that we can
continue working across the aisle to
promote housing opportunity for all of
our constituents.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I
reiterate my support for the bill.
I thank Mr. CLEAVER for his personal
testimony today. It was very compel-
ling. It is a tremendous story of suc-
cess in the use of these things and how
changing our neighborhoods can really
be helpful.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
b 1615
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased that we were able to work in a
bipartisan manner on this initiative.
This bill shows that we can foster new
ideas and help improve services and
flexibility for our citizens who are re-
ceiving housing assistance.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Missouri (Mr. LUETKEMEYER) for
his engagement on the bill, and I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
this important piece of legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1122.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
FEDERAL RESERVE SUPERVISION
TESTIMONY CLARIFICATION ACT
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 974) to amend the Federal Re-
serve Act to require the Vice Chairman
for Supervision of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System
to provide a written report, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 974
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Federal Re-
serve Supervision Testimony Clarification
Act’’.
SEC. 2. VICE CHAIRMAN FOR SUPERVISION RE-
PORT REQUIREMENT.
Paragraph (12) of section 10 of the Federal
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 247b) is amended—
(1) by redesignating such paragraph as
paragraph (11); and
(2) in such paragraph—
(A) by striking ‘‘shall appear’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘shall provide written testimony and ap-
pear’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘If,
at the time of any appearance described in
this paragraph, the position of Vice Chair-
man for Supervision is vacant, the Chairman
or their designee shall appear instead and
provide the required written testimony.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.007 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2621
March 11, 2019
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this is a very straight-
forward piece of legislation.
It clarifies that the Vice Chairman
for Supervision is required to provide
testimony along with his appearance
before the committee.
Additionally, if the position is va-
cant, the bill makes clear that the
Chair of the Board shall appear and
provide testimony on supervision and
regulation efforts.
I think it makes good sense to codify
who at the Board will testify before
Congress on the status of the Fed’s su-
pervisory efforts regardless of whether
there is a person confirmed for the Vice
Chairman for Supervision or not.
When Congress passed the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Con-
sumer Protection Act, it created the
position of Vice Chairman for Super-
vision so that there was one Fed Board
Governor who was responsible for en-
suring robust rules for the Nation’s
largest financial institutions.
We now have a Vice Chairman for Su-
pervision at the Fed, but the position
had previously been vacant since its
creation in 2010, so it is helpful to clar-
ify how Congress will continue to be in-
formed about developments at the Fed.
This bill already passed the House
last year on a voice vote.
I thank the gentleman from New Jer-
sey (Mr. GOTTHEIMER) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS) for
introducing this legislation.
I urge all Members to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
H.R. 974.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
974, the Federal Reserve Supervision
Testimony Clarification Act, an impor-
tant bipartisan bill that will provide
Congress greater oversight of regula-
tion and supervision at the Federal Re-
serve.
The Vice Chairman for Supervision of
the Federal Reserve exercises and over-
sees the Board’s supervisory and regu-
latory authority over a variety of fi-
nancial institutions and activities.
This role is imperative to promote a
safe, sound, and stable financial system
that supports the growth and stability
of the U.S. economy.
This bill before us today will ensure
that the Federal Reserve will come
forth and testify before Congress on
issues relating to the supervision of fi-
nancial institutions, giving added
transparency to the American people,
as well as increasing the Fed’s account-
ability.
The issues overseen by this position
are of high importance to the Amer-
ican people and our financial system. It
is crucial that we have the ability to
hear testimony and ask questions of
the Federal Reserve on these com-
plicated issues.
I would like to thank Congressman
GOTTHEIMER for sponsoring and Con-
gressman LUCAS for cosponsoring this
much-needed legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr.
LUCAS).
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I am here
today to tell my colleagues about H.R.
974 and urge they pass it.
This is a bill about congressional
oversight, pure and simple. As this
body knows, Dodd-Frank gave the Fed-
eral Reserve greater regulatory author-
ity and established the Vice Chairman
for Supervision position to oversee
those efforts; but the first confirmed
appointee to that position took office
in 2017, a full 7 years after Dodd-Frank.
During that time, Congress received
minimal testimony on regulatory
issues from the Fed. Typically, other
officials who didn’t oversee the regu-
latory efforts gave testimony in this
regard. But the key point is, Dodd-
Frank requires only the Vice Chairman
for Supervision to give that testimony.
While we are grateful that other Fed-
eral officials decided to speak to Con-
gress on regulatory issues, they didn’t
have to, under the law.
I introduced this bill last Congress as
a way to prevent that situation from
arising ever again. Under the bill, if
there is no Vice Chairman for Super-
vision, either the Fed Chair or their
designee will be required to give an-
nual testimony on regulatory matters.
It is that simple. As a result, this bill
passed unanimously out of the Finan-
cial Services Committee last Congress.
As I said, this bill is about the over-
sight authority of Congress and the
other constituents we represent.
It remains vitally important that we
and our Senate friends hear from
knowledgeable regulatory officials at
these agencies, particularly when these
regulations have a large effect on the
capital money markets; otherwise, our
constituents will become even more
distrustful of government.
Transparency is key. In fact, it is one
of the largest responsibilities of the
Members of Congress. This promotes
that responsibility and, thus, deserves
to be passed.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate Mr.
GOTTHEIMER’s willingness to bring this
bill to the floor. I thank the chair-
woman and the ranking member for
supporting this bill. I hope my col-
leagues will follow this example and
vote in favor.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased with the bipartisan cooperation
shown by this legislation and fully sup-
port the efforts of the sponsors to in-
crease accountability and trans-
parency.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Missouri (Mr. LUETKEMEYER) for his en-
gagement on the bill and, again, urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
this important legislation, H.R. 974.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 974, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FINCEN IMPROVEMENT ACT OF
2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1414) to amend the duties of the
Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work (FinCEN) to ensure FinCEN
works with Tribal law enforcement
agencies, protects against all forms of
terrorism, and focuses on virtual cur-
rencies.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1414
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘FinCEN Im-
provement Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
The Congress finds the following:
(1) The mission of the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network (FinCEN) is to safe-
guard the financial system from illicit use
and combat money laundering and promote
national security through the collection,
analysis, and dissemination of financial in-
telligence and strategic use of financial au-
thorities.
(2) In its mission to safeguard the financial
system from the abuses of financial crime,
including terrorist financing, money laun-
dering and other illicit activity, the United
States should prioritize working with part-
ners in Federal, State, local, Tribal, and for-
eign law enforcement authorities.
(3) The Federal Bureau of Investigation has
stated that since the terror attacks on Sep-
tember 11, 2001, ‘‘The threat landscape has
expanded considerably, though it is impor-
tant to note that the more traditional threat
posed by al Qaeda and its affiliates is still
present and active. The threat of domestic
terrorism also remains persistent overall,
with actors crossing the line from First
Amendment protected rights to committing
crimes to further their political agenda.’’.
(4) Although the use and trading of virtual
currencies are legal practices, some terror-
ists and criminals, including international
criminal organizations, seek to exploit
vulnerabilities in the global financial system
and are increasingly using emerging pay-
ment methods such as virtual currencies to
move illicit funds.
(5) In carrying out its mission, FinCEN
should prioritize all forms of terrorism and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.011 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2622 March 11, 2019
emerging methods of terrorism and illicit fi-
nance.
SEC. 3. STRENGTHENING FINCEN.
Section 310 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (C)—
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘appropriate
Federal, State, local, and foreign law en-
forcement agencies’’ and inserting ‘‘appro-
priate Federal, State, local, Tribal, and for-
eign law enforcement agencies’’; and
(B) in clause (vi), by striking ‘‘to protect
against international terrorism’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘to protect against terrorism’’;
(2) in paragraph (E), by striking ‘‘appro-
priate Federal, State, local, and foreign law
enforcement authorities’’ and inserting ‘‘ap-
propriate Federal, State, local, Tribal, and
foreign law enforcement authorities’’;
(3) in paragraph (F), by striking ‘‘Federal,
State, local, and foreign law enforcement’’
and inserting ‘‘Federal, State, local, Tribal,
and foreign law enforcement’’; and
(4) in paragraph (H), by striking ‘‘anti-ter-
rorism and anti-money laundering initia-
tives, and similar efforts’’ and inserting
‘‘anti-terrorism and anti-money laundering
initiatives, including matters involving
emerging technologies or value that sub-
stitutes for currency, and similar efforts’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the FinCEN Improve-
ment Act is a bill that will strengthen
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work, FinCEN, our national security,
and our financial system. A form of
this bipartisan bill was introduced last
year with the exact same language, and
it unanimously passed the House on
suspension by voice vote.
Currently, FinCEN works with Fed-
eral, State, local, and foreign law en-
forcement authorities in its anti-
money laundering/counter terror fi-
nancing objectives. Although Tribal
law enforcement is a strong partner in
fighting crime and safeguarding our
country’s national security, they are
not yet listed in the FinCEN statute
alongside their law enforcement part-
ners.
Though FinCEN voluntarily works
with Tribal law enforcement in these
objectives, this legislation will make
FinCEN’s assistance to Tribal law en-
forcement mandatory. This bill will
also amend FinCEN’s statute to pro-
tect against all forms of terrorism. As
written, the underlying statute only
requires the protection against inter-
national terrorism.
While the United States faces a seri-
ous threat from foreign terrorist orga-
nizations, the threat from both home-
grown violent extremists and domestic
terrorists has sharply increased within
the past several years. Although this
type of terrorism has been less dis-
cussed in the news cycle, these terror-
ists are equally as dangerous as inter-
national terrorist organizations, if not
more.
In fact, a survey of 382 law enforce-
ment agencies, conducted with the Po-
lice Executive Research Forum with
funding from the National Institute of
Justice, found that 74 percent of the
law enforcement agencies reported
antigovernment extremism, such as
sovereign citizen extremism, as one of
the top terrorist threats in their juris-
dictions. This part of the bill will en-
sure that a proper focus be paid to all
forms of terrorism.
Additionally, this bill will require
FinCEN to work with foreign financial
intelligence units on anti-money laun-
dering and counter terror financing ini-
tiatives with respect to emerging tech-
nologies such as cryptocurrencies,
which are increasingly used by terror-
ists and transnational criminals.
As the threat environment has
changed with the birth and prominence
of cryptocurrencies, online market-
places, and the dark web, FinCEN
needs to coordinate with and support
our international partners that share
our common anti-money laundering/
counter terror financing goals.
For these reasons, I am proud to sup-
port this legislation, and I congratu-
late Congresswoman WEXTON and Con-
gressman RIGGLEMAN for introducing
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this important legisla-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 1414, the FinCEN Improvement
Act.
This bipartisan piece of legislation
passed the House by a voice vote last
Congress. I am happy to see that my
colleague, Congressman RIGGLEMAN of
Virginia, has joined Congresswoman
WEXTON in reintroducing it this Con-
gress.
This is the first piece of cosponsored
legislation Congressman RIGGLEMAN
had on the floor, and the fact that it
focuses on terrorism speaks directly to
his past service in the Air Force and
his continued effort to protect the
American people from bad actors. Mr.
Speaker, I thank him and Congress-
woman WEXTON for leading this fight
to protect the American people.
H.R. 1414 outlines how the terror
landscape in our post-9/11 world has ex-
panded.
Now, we are tasked with protecting
the American people not only from tra-
ditional threats posed by groups like
al-Qaida abroad, but also domestic ter-
rorism, where crimes are committed on
U.S. soil by both foreign and U.S. per-
sons.
H.R. 1414 mandates that FinCEN
focus on all forms of terror, not just
foreign terror campaigns. This is a
commonsense update to the statute
that would bring added clarity to our
antiterrorism laws.
H.R. 1414 also strengthens FinCEN by
ensuring cooperation with Tribal law
enforcement agencies and the
prioritization of virtual currencies.
b 1630
Illicit actors have been found to be
using virtual currencies because of
their ability to provide anonymity.
Some virtual currencies have been
shown to frustrate law enforcement’s
efforts to link transactions to people or
IP addresses.
It is for this exact reason that
FinCEN needs to be able to allocate re-
sources and manpower to investigate
and thwart instances of terrorism that
involve all forms of virtual currencies.
Mr. Speaker, it is our sworn duty to
protect the American people, and H.R.
1414 allows FinCEN to adapt its inves-
tigative abilities to prevent terrorism
in our digital age.
Again, I thank Ms. WEXTON and Mr.
RIGGLEMAN for their leadership, and I
urge my colleagues to support this bi-
partisan legislation.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Ms. WEXTON).
Ms. WEXTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for yielding me the
time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1414, the FinCEN Improvement Act, bi-
partisan legislation I introduced with
my Financial Services Committee col-
league and fellow Virginian, Congress-
man DENVER RIGGLEMAN.
This is a practical bill that will help
modernize the duties of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, other-
wise known as FinCEN. The mission of
FinCEN is to safeguard the financial
system from crimes or illicit use, such
as terrorist financing; combat money
laundering; and promote national secu-
rity through the collection, analysis,
and dissemination of financial informa-
tion and intelligence.
H.R. 1414 would do three things to
further their important mission.
First is in the area of investigation
into terror financing. FinCEN is cur-
rently authorized to combat inter-
national terrorism but fails to mention
domestic terror activities. While inter-
national terror threats remain present
and relevant, the threat landscape has
expanded considerably and also in-
cludes domestic terror groups that
commit crimes to further their agen-
das.
H.R. 1414 will amend the FinCEN au-
thorizing legislation to clarify its role
in investigating and combating terror
threats, be they foreign or domestic.
FinCEN is already doing important
work to combat domestic terrorism,
but the bill will clarify its role and cor-
rect this oversight in the statute.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.005 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2623
March 11, 2019
Second, the virtual currency land-
scape is rapidly evolving and many of
these technologies did not exist when
previous laws and regulations were
written. H.R. 1414 will help FinCEN
combat emerging methods of financing
illicit activity, including the use of
cryptocurrency.
Finally, the FinCEN Improvement
Act builds on existing relationships
with law enforcement partners by en-
suring that FinCEN has the authority
to work not only with Federal, State,
and local law enforcement, but also
with Tribal law enforcement across the
country.
I am proud to cosponsor this bill, Mr.
Speaker, and I urge our colleagues to
support it.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. RIGGLEMAN), one of our
outstanding freshmen from the fresh-
man class of this past fall.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker,
today, I am proud to rise in support as
the lead Republican sponsor of H.R.
1414, the FinCEN Improvement Act of
2019.
I thank my colleague and fellow
Member from the Commonwealth of
Virginia, Representative JENNIFER
WEXTON, for her work on this legisla-
tion. This bill is a tangible example of
what Congress can accomplish when we
put aside our differences and work to-
gether.
FinCEN, or the Financial Crimes En-
forcement Network, is a critical com-
ponent of law enforcement, as the
agency is charged with promoting na-
tional security by safeguarding our fi-
nancial system.
Terrorists, drug smugglers, human
traffickers, and other criminal actors
are constantly innovating and creating
new ways to exploit the system. Bad
actors know the current limitations of
law enforcement and how to profit im-
mensely from our weaknesses as they
are constantly developing their tactics,
techniques, and procedures, or TTPs,
based on our security posture.
It is FinCEN’s mission to cut the
head off the snake and combat illicit
financing of these activities. This bill
will strengthen FinCEN in three key
areas.
First, it strengthens FinCEN by codi-
fying the domestic responsibilities of
combating illicit finance. We know all
too well the danger international ter-
rorists pose, but it is equally impor-
tant that we police criminal financial
activity domestically as well. By rein-
forcing FinCEN’s domestic mandate,
we are sending a message to all Ameri-
cans that we will not tolerate criminal
activity either at home or abroad.
Second, this bill adds Tribal law en-
forcement to the list of FinCEN part-
ners. By ensuring robust and com-
prehensive law enforcement partners,
we are equipping the agencies charged
with safeguarding our financial system
with the necessary tools and informa-
tion to execute their mission.
Partnering with Tribal law enforce-
ment closes a potential loophole that
terrorists can use to inject illicit
money into the system.
Finally, and perhaps most impor-
tantly, this bill clearly incorporates
cryptocurrencies and other emerging
technologies that substitute for cur-
rency.
As financial technology, or fintech,
evolves, so do the opportunities for
criminals to take advantage of the fi-
nancial system. We must ensure that
our law enforcement agencies have a
clear directive from Congress to take
on all challenges and risks facing our
financial system.
Mr. Speaker, today, I ask all my col-
leagues in the people’s House to join
me and Ms. WEXTON by voting in favor
of this legislation.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I am prepared to
close. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I
reiterate my support for H.R. 1414, the
FinCEN Improvement Act, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased that Ms. WEXTON and Mr.
RIGGLEMAN have brought this issue to
the full House. It addresses key gaps in
our efforts to fight financial crime,
something we all should support.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this important piece of leg-
islation, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1414.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COOPERATE WITH LAW ENFORCE-
MENT AGENCIES AND WATCH
ACT OF 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 758) to provide a safe harbor for
financial institutions that maintain a
customer account or customer trans-
action at the request of a Federal or
State law enforcement agency, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 758
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Cooperate
with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SAFE HARBOR WITH RESPECT TO KEEP
OPEN LETTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
53 of title 31, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 5333. Safe harbor with respect to keep
open letters
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a cus-
tomer account or customer transaction of a
financial institution, if a Federal, State,
Tribal, or local law enforcement agency re-
quests, in writing, the financial institution
to keep such account or transaction open—
‘‘(1) the financial institution shall not be
liable under this subchapter for maintaining
such account or transaction consistent with
the parameters of the request; and
‘‘(2) no Federal or State department or
agency may take any adverse supervisory ac-
tion under this subchapter with respect to
the financial institution for maintaining
such account or transaction consistent with
the parameters of the request.
‘‘(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed—
‘‘(1) from preventing a Federal or State de-
partment or agency from verifying the valid-
ity of a written request described under sub-
section (a) with the Federal, State, Tribal, or
local law enforcement agency making the
written request; or
‘‘(2) to relieve a financial institution from
complying with any reporting requirements,
including the reporting of suspicious trans-
actions under section 5318(g).
‘‘(c) LETTER TERMINATION DATE.—For pur-
poses of this section, any written request de-
scribed under subsection (a) shall include a
termination date after which such request
shall no longer apply.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for chapter 53 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 5332 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘5333. Safe harbor with respect to keep open
letters.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days within which to
revise and extend their remarks on this
legislation and to insert extraneous
material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 758 would strength-
en cooperation between financial insti-
tutions and law enforcement agencies
to better detect, deter, and combat ter-
rorism and financial crimes.
With respect to the Bank Secrecy
Act anti-money laundering, referred to
as BSA/AML, supervisory actions, this
bill would carve out a narrow safe har-
bor for financial institutions to keep a
customer’s account open at the written
request of a law enforcement agency,
including those at the Federal, State,
local, and Tribal levels.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.014 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2624 March 11, 2019
This cooperation will enable law en-
forcement agencies to follow the
money in the bank accounts of terror-
ists, human traffickers, corrupt offi-
cials, and those involved with orga-
nized crime.
Of equal importance, the legislation
provides an assurance to financial in-
stitutions, clarifying that they will not
be held liable for their cooperation and
collaboration with law enforcement in
helping to thwart illicit finance.
I will note that law enforcement
agencies are currently expected to pro-
vide a written notice to financial insti-
tutions, requesting that the accounts
of bad actors remain open to monitor
transactions and build stronger crimi-
nal cases. However, this practice does
not always happen and exposes finan-
cial institutions to enforcement ac-
tions from their banking regulators.
Banks should not be put in a position
to choose whether or not to help law
enforcement out of concern about regu-
latory consequences.
We simply cannot allow bad actors to
launder money and finance terror
through our banks. H.R. 758 will en-
courage financial institutions to main-
tain a strong partnership with law en-
forcement.
In the 115th Congress, this bill was
unanimously approved by the Finan-
cial Services Committee. The House
passed the bill by a vote of 379–4.
I thank the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL) and the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. FOSTER) for introducing
this bipartisan piece of legislation.
This bill is one example of our commit-
tee’s efforts to fight terrorism, corrup-
tion, and financial crime. I urge all
Members to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 758. I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, first, let me thank
Chairwoman WATERS for her work on
this bill. I am delighted the House is
considering this important bill, H.R.
758, which I have had the pleasure to
work on over the past year with my
good friend from Illinois, Congressman
FOSTER.
As a former community banker, I
have dealt with the conflict of wanting
to help law enforcement agencies when
receiving a keep open letter, but not
being able to because of the need to
comply with the requirements set forth
by a regulator, frequently and often in
the middle of a bank exam.
Today, the overall purpose of this bill
is to support law enforcement and re-
duce money laundering and terrorist fi-
nancing through our banking system.
That is why, along with my friend Mr.
FOSTER, I was pleased to introduce
this, as the chairwoman said, narrow,
commonsense bill, which enables part-
nerships without repercussions be-
tween law enforcement and our local fi-
nancial institutions.
This legislation allows law enforce-
ment to monitor cash flows associated
with criminal investigations at finan-
cial institutions. Under the Bank Se-
crecy Act and anti-money laundering
regulations, banks face strict rules for
managing accounts so that they cannot
facilitate money laundering, terrorism
financing, drug running, and other ille-
gal activities.
Sometimes, banks receive notices
from law enforcement agencies known
as keep open letters to encourage them
to keep an account open so that law
enforcement can monitor what they
think to be and suspect to be criminal
activity and track the payments for
better monitoring.
I have heard recently from banks
that they are seeing an increase in the
number of keep open letters, many of
which can be attributable to new
human trafficking investigations. Al-
lowing banks to keep these accounts
open will help stop these terrible
criminal actions.
Currently, if banks help law enforce-
ment and comply with the keep open
letter request, they face the risk of
being penalized by someone from the
same regulatory agency. This common-
sense bill supports those efforts by law
enforcement by allowing financial in-
stitutions to comply with such re-
quests to maintain a suspicious ac-
count without being penalized in the
middle of a bank exam. Under this bill,
no Federal department or agency may
take an adverse supervisory action
with respect to the financial institu-
tion that is keeping the account open.
As the chairwoman said, last Con-
gress, this legislation unanimously
passed out of our House Financial
Services Committee and passed under
the suspension of the rules. The legisla-
tion was also included as a provision
last Congress in the JOBS 3.0 package.
Chairman WATERS and former Chair-
man Hensarling made fighting illicit fi-
nance a priority for our committee.
Given the strong bipartisanship, I urge
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle
to support this measure. It will give
law enforcement the tools it needs to
prosecute bad actors who are exploit-
ing our financial system.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. FOSTER).
b 1645
Mr. FOSTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairwoman WATERS for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to start by
thanking the chairwoman for bringing
up this bipartisan bill today and for
maintaining bipartisan momentum in
the areas where bipartisan agreement
is achievable. Chairwoman WATERS and
her staff were instrumental in passing
this bill in the last Congress and in-
cluding it in JOBS 3.0.
I would also like to thank my friend,
Congressman HILL, for working on the
Cooperate with Law Enforcement
Agencies and Watch Act, the CLAW
Act, with me.
I am proud to support this bill, which
passed with very strong bipartisan sup-
port in the last Congress, a 55–0 vote in
the Financial Services Committee, a
379–4 vote on the House floor.
This bill creates a commonsense safe
harbor from Bank Secrecy Act liability
for a bank that keeps an account open
at the request of law enforcement. For
background, law enforcement agencies
sometimes send what are called keep
open letters to financial institutions so
that they can obtain critical evidence
in investigations by following the
money.
While following these law enforce-
ment requests is optional, agreeing to
them does, in fact, create a technical
violation of the Bank Secrecy Act.
This complicates the decision for a fi-
nancial institution that should be sim-
ple. This could, in fact, undermine our
efforts to prevent illicit finance or
money laundering.
This bill will enhance the ability of
the law enforcement community to
track funds in a criminal investigation,
leading to better evidence and, hope-
fully, conviction of criminals higher up
in the hierarchy. To be clear, nothing
in this bill takes away from financial
regulators’ safety and soundness pow-
ers, and financial institutions still
have to file SARs when they have a
keep open letter.
In addition, this bill requires that
the keep open letters have a definite
duration but does not preclude law en-
forcement from sending subsequent let-
ters to extend the period, should the
investigation continue.
This bill is a great example of how
Democrats and Republicans can come
together on a number of issues of com-
mon interest.
In a world in which criminals and
criminal organizations have access to
increasingly sophisticated tools and
technologies to carry out their crimi-
nal activities, we should help financial
institutions in leveling the playing
field to bring these criminals to jus-
tice.
This bill follows other commonsense,
bipartisan efforts that I have supported
to modernize our Nation’s ability to
confront dangerous criminals and
criminal organizations. I recently in-
troduced with Congressman KUSTOFF
the CONFRONT Act, which would re-
quire the Treasury Department to de-
velop a national strategy to combat
the financial crimes of transnational
criminal organizations and individuals.
I am hopeful that this bill can also be
passed in the near future with simi-
larly strong bipartisan support.
This bill today is an important meas-
ure that allows financial institutions
to effectively assist with combating
crimes such as money laundering and
illicit financing, and I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further speakers on this side of
the aisle.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would just
simply urge, with the work done by Mr.
FOSTER and myself, and with thanks to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.016 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2625
March 11, 2019
the Chair, that we have strong bipar-
tisan support in favor of H.R. 758, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased that Mr. HILL and Mr. FOSTER
have brought this measure to the
House on a bipartisan basis. It will help
provide law enforcement more access
to the critical information it needs and
in a timely manner.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 758, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
THE BUDGET MESSAGE OF THE
PRESIDENT—MESSAGE FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–3)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Appropriations
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
In just over 2 years, together with
the American people, we have launched
an unprecedented economic boom.
Since I was elected, we have created
more than 5 million new jobs, including
half a million manufacturing jobs.
Nearly 5 million Americans have been
lifted off food stamps. Unemployment
is the lowest in nearly half a century.
African American unemployment, His-
panic American unemployment, and
Asian American unemployment rates
have all reached historic lows. Our Na-
tion is experiencing an economic mir-
acle—and it is improving the lives of
all our citizens.
We have achieved these extraor-
dinary gains thanks to historic tax
cuts and an unprecedented regulatory
reduction campaign, through
unleashing American energy produc-
tion, systematically fixing bad trade
deals, and remaining absolutely com-
mitted to putting the needs of the
American worker first.
My Administration worked with the
Congress to pass unprecedented legisla-
tion to confront the opioid crisis, a
sweeping new farm bill,
groundbreaking criminal justice re-
form, major investments to rebuild the
military, and historic Department of
Veterans Affairs reforms to ensure that
our great veterans have access to high
quality healthcare.
We are also making our communities
safer. To target violent crime, my Ad-
ministration has increased support for
Federal, State, and local law enforce-
ment. We have added nearly 200 new
violent crime prosecutors across the
United States. And last year, the De-
partment of Justice prosecuted more
violent crimes than ever before. As a
result, violent crime is falling.
My Administration is confronting
the national security and humani-
tarian crisis on our southern border,
and we are accepting the moral duty to
create an immigration system that
protects the lives and jobs of our citi-
zens. This includes our obligation to
the millions of immigrants living in
the United States today who followed
the rules and respected our laws.
In the 20th century, America saved
freedom, transformed science, and de-
fined the middle class standard of liv-
ing. Now we must write the next chap-
ter of the great American adventure,
turbo-charging the industries of the fu-
ture and establishing a new standard of
living for the 21st century. An amazing
quality of life for all of our citizens is
within reach. We can make our com-
munities safer, our families stronger,
our culture richer, our faith deeper,
and our middle class bigger and more
prosperous than ever before.
We are now addressing our challenges
from a position of strength. My 2020
Budget builds on the tremendous
progress we have made and provides a
clear roadmap for the Congress to
bring Federal spending and debt under
control. We must protect future gen-
erations from Washington’s habitual
deficit spending.
This year, I asked most executive de-
partments and agencies to cut their
budgets by at least 5 percent. In addi-
tion to reflecting those reductions, my
Budget invests in the following prior-
ities:
Securing our Borders and Protecting
our Sovereignty. As President, my
highest duty is the defense of our Na-
tion—which is why finishing the border
wall is an urgent national priority. All
who are privileged to hold elected of-
fice must work together to create an
immigration system that promotes
wage growth and economic oppor-
tunity, while preventing drugs, ter-
rorism, and crime from entering the
United States. Immigration policy,
like all policy, must serve the interests
of Americans living here today—in-
cluding the millions of new Americans
who came here legally to join our na-
tional family. The American people are
entitled to a strong border that stops
illegal immigration, and a responsible
visa policy that protects our security
and our workforce. My Budget con-
tinues to reflect these priorities, and I
look forward to working with the Con-
gress to finish the border wall and
build a safe, just, and lawful immigra-
tion system that will benefit genera-
tions of Americans to come.
Preserving Peace through Strength.
A strong military, fully integrated
with our allies and all our instruments
of power, enables our Nation to deter
war, preserve peace, and, if necessary,
defeat aggression against United
States interests. To that end, my
Budget requests $750 billion for na-
tional defense, an increase of $34 bil-
lion, or 5 percent, from the 2019 enacted
level. The Budget funds the National
Security Strategy and National De-
fense Strategy, building on the major
gains we have already made through-
out the world.
Protecting our Veterans. Our Na-
tion’s brave warriors and defenders de-
serve the best care America has to
offer—both during and after their ac-
tive service. Last year, I signed into
law the historic VA MISSION Act of
2018 to reform and transform the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs
healthcare system into an integrated
system for the 21st century. My Budget
fully funds all requirements for vet-
erans’ healthcare services and provides
additional funding to implement the
VA MISSION Act of 2018.
Investing in America’s Students and
Workers. To help protect taxpayer dol-
lars, my Budget continues my request
to create an educational finance sys-
tem that requires postsecondary insti-
tutions that accept taxpayer funds to
have skin in the game through a stu-
dent loan risk-sharing program. My
Administration will also continue to
seek expanded Pell Grant eligibility for
high-quality, short-term programs in
high-demand fields, so that students
and workers can quickly gain valuable
skills at a more affordable cost and ob-
tain family-sustaining jobs. We must
create and invest in better opportuni-
ties for our Nation’s students and job
seekers, while ensuring that we do so
in a more efficient and effective man-
ner.
Research for Childhood Cancers.
Many childhood cancers have not seen
new therapies in decades. My Budget
initiates a new effort that invests $500
million over the next 10 years to sup-
port this critical life-saving research.
Defeating HIV/AIDS in America. The
HIV epidemic still plagues our Nation,
with more than 38,000 Americans in-
fected every year. In response, my
Budget provides $291 million to the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices to defeat the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
The goal is to eliminate most new in-
fections within 5 years (75 percent) and
nearly all within 10 years (90 percent).
This initiative will focus efforts on di-
agnosis, prevention, and treatment ef-
forts in the locations where intense
transmissions of the virus are driving
the epidemic.
Confronting the Opioid Epidemic. My
Budget continues historic levels of
funding for our law enforcement, pre-
vention, and treatment efforts to com-
bat the opioid and drug addiction epi-
demic.
Supporting Working Families. Amer-
ica must also lead in supporting the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.017 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2626 March 11, 2019
families of our workforce so that they
can balance the competing demands of
work and family. My Budget includes a
one-time, mandatory investment of $1
billion for a competitive fund aimed at
supporting under-served populations
and stimulating employer investments
in child care for working families. My
Administration has also pledged to pro-
vide paid parental leave to help work-
ing parents, and we are committed to
partnering with the Congress to enact
this important policy.
We must always strive to uphold our
oaths to promote and protect the per-
sonal and economic freedoms the Con-
stitution guarantees to us all.
We must work together to renew the
bonds of love and loyalty that link us
to one another—as friends, as citizens,
as neighbors, as patriots, and as Ameri-
cans.
My Budget reflects my Administra-
tion’s commitment to these worthy
goals as it seeks to make the United
States of America wealthier, stronger,
safer, and greater for every American
family and neighborhood.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, March 11, 2019.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 11, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
March 11, 2019, at 2:14 p.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 725.
Appointment:
Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excel-
lence in Education Foundation
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 today.
Accordingly (at 4 o’clock and 58 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. ESPAILLAT) at 6 o’clock
and 30 minutes p.m.
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H. CON. RES. 24, EXPRESSING
THE SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT
THE REPORT OF SPECIAL COUN-
SEL MUELLER SHOULD BE MADE
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC AND
TO CONGRESS, AND PROVIDING
FOR PROCEEDINGS DURING THE
PERIOD FROM MARCH 15, 2019,
THROUGH MARCH 22, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–17) on the
resolution (H. Res. 208) providing for
consideration of the concurrent resolu-
tion (H. Con. Res. 24) expressing the
sense of Congress that the report of
Special Counsel Mueller should be
made available to the public and to
Congress, and providing for proceedings
during the period from March 15, 2019,
through March 22, 2019, which was re-
ferred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 1122, by the yeas and nays; and
H.R. 758, by the yeas and nays.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, the second elec-
tronic vote will be conducted as a 5-
minute vote.
f
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER MOBIL-
ITY DEMONSTRATION ACT OF
2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1122) to authorize the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to carry out a housing choice
voucher mobility demonstration to en-
courage families receiving such vouch-
er assistance to move to lower-poverty
areas and expand access to opportunity
areas, on which the yeas and nays were
ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 387, nays 22,
not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 119]
YEAS—387
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.007 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2627
March 11, 2019
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NAYS—22
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Cline
Cloud
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
Green (TN)
Grothman
Harris
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Massie
McClintock
Perry
Roy
Steube
Weber (TX)
Yoho
Young
NOT VOTING—22
Abraham
Byrne
Engel
Flores
Gabbard
Gallego
Grijalva
Hartzler
Hayes
Johnson (LA)
Meeks
Moore
Pocan
Price (NC)
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Swalwell (CA)
Tlaib
Upton
Walker
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1856
Messrs. HICE of Georgia, YOHO, and
WEBER of Texas changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I missed the
vote on Roll Call No. 119. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘Yea’’.
f
COOPERATE WITH LAW ENFORCE-
MENT AGENCIES AND WATCH
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 758) to provide a safe harbor
for financial institutions that maintain
a customer account or customer trans-
action at the request of a Federal or
State law enforcement agency, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 404, nays 7,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 120]
YEAS—404
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—7
Amash
Burgess
Cline
Gosar
Griffith
Massie
Roy
NOT VOTING—20
Abraham
Engel
Flores
Gabbard
Gallego
Grijalva
Hayes
Johnson (LA)
Lee (NV)
Meeks
Moore
Pocan
Price (NC)
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Swalwell (CA)
Tlaib
Upton
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1906
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 119 and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 120.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivor Protec-
tion Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, and recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leadership.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES
Mr. BOST. Parliamentary inquiry,
Mr. Speaker.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.008 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2628 March 11, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, is it not true
that under the Born-Alive Abortion
Protection Act that infant survivors of
abortion would receive lifesaving med-
ical care?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not stated a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mr. BOST. Parliamentary inquiry,
Mr. Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, does an in-
fant survivor of an abortion not de-
serve the same care as other living
human beings?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not stated a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mr. BOST. One more parliamentary
inquiry, Mr. Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. BOST. Will the Chair entertain a
unanimous consent request to enter
into the RECORD comments from Vir-
ginia Governor Ralph Northam about
infanticide?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will not provide an advisory
opinion.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, if this unani-
mous consent request cannot be enter-
tained on H.R. 962, I urge the Speaker
and the majority leader to imme-
diately schedule the Born-Alive bill so
we can stand up and protect the sanc-
tity of human life.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO THE LIFE
AND LEGACY OF THE HONOR-
ABLE RALPH HALL
(Ms. JOHNSON of Texas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I would like all members of the Texas
delegation to join me.
Mr. Speaker, today I would like to
recognize and pay tribute to the life
and legacy of former Congressman, fel-
low Texan, and a dear friend, Ralph
Hall.
Congressman Hall served the people
of the great State of Texas for nearly a
half century: 10 years as a Texas State
Senator from the Ninth District, and 34
years as a Member of the U.S. House of
Representatives from Texas’ Fourth
District. He genuinely enjoyed public
service, and he was good at it as well.
Known throughout the Halls of Con-
gress as an effective legislator, Con-
gressman Hall made great legislative
strides in the science field and was a
top advocate for the country’s space
program during his time as both chair-
man and ranking member of the House
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee.
Congressman Hall was the first to
reach out and offer his assistance when
I was first elected to the House of Rep-
resentatives. He helped me learn the
ins and outs of Washington. No matter
the party affiliation or political lean-
ing, Congressman Hall was a man who
could always be counted on and one
who enjoyed a good joke.
Congressman Hall was preceded in
death by his wife, Mary Ellen Murphy
Hall; sister, Rosemary Hall Scott; and
brother, Hugh Hall. He is survived by
his three sons—Hamp, Brett, and
Blakeley Hall—and many wonderful
grandchildren.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the entire
Texas congressional delegation, I
would like to pay respects to Congress-
man Hall for a life dedicated to his
family, his country, and his constitu-
ents. The Texas community will miss
him dearly, and we will be presenting
Congressman Hall’s family with a flag
that was flown over the Capitol today.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO THE LIFE
AND LEGACY OF THE HONOR-
ABLE RALPH HALL
(Mr. RATCLIFFE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. RATCLIFFE. Mr. Speaker, at age
19, Ralph Hall jumped at the chance to
join the Navy, to fly Hellcat fighters
during World War II in defense of this
Nation. Seventy years later, at the age
of 89, he jumped again out of an air-
plane to honor America’s veterans on
Memorial Day.
At age 11, Ralph Hall was working at
the Rockwall, Texas, drugstore when
he served two Coca-Colas, two packs of
Old Gold cigarettes, and a stack of
newspapers to two customers known
simply to the rest of the world as
Bonnie and Clyde. Eighty years later,
at the age of 91, Ralph was still work-
ing and serving the folks in Rockwall,
in north Texas, as the oldest Member
ever to cast a vote in the history of the
House of Representatives.
From beginning to end, Ralph Hall
lived one of the most extraordinary
and remarkable lives of anyone ever to
serve in Congress.
In his 34 years in this Chamber,
Ralph spent some of his time sitting
over here as a Blue Dog Democrat. For
some of his time he spent it sitting
over there as a conservative Repub-
lican. Ralph liked to joke that was be-
cause ‘‘the Republicans never much
wanted me, and the Democrats never
much liked me.’’ Neither of those was
true, but it was that self-deprecating
humor that made Ralph Hall beloved to
everyone who knew him.
In the Science, Space, and Tech-
nology Committee room, Ralph Hall’s
picture hangs alongside other past
chairmen. But Ralph was the only
chairman to have Neil Armstrong, Buzz
Aldrin, Gene Cernan, and every then-
living Apollo-era astronaut come to his
home to celebrate one of his birthdays.
When asked why, Neil Armstrong, the
first man on the Moon, who famously
took a giant leap for mankind, said it
was because Ralph Hall was a giant to
our space program. Ralph Hall, he said,
was a giant among men.
Mr. Speaker, to those on the floor
who knew Ralph Hall, thank you for al-
lowing me to remember him for the
Representative that he truly was. And
for those of you who did not have the
privilege of serving with Ralph Hall,
thank you for letting me remember the
man who was the kind of Representa-
tive that we should all hope to be.
When Ralph Hall passed away last
Thursday at the age of 95, he left this
Earth, went right past the Moon—and
our loss became Heaven’s gain.
Godspeed, Ralph Hall.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask all
Members to rise and observe a moment
of silence to honor the extraordinary
life of Congressman Ralph Hall.
f
b 1915
TRANSPARENCY IS CRITICAL
(Mr. GOTTHEIMER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I
first want to thank Chairwoman
WATERS and Congressman LUCAS for
working together on the Federal Re-
serve Supervision Testimony Clarifica-
tion Act, which the House passed ear-
lier today.
Transparency is critical, and my bi-
partisan bill requires that Congress re-
ceives regular testimony regarding su-
pervisory matters at the Federal Re-
serve Board. Congress has a clear re-
sponsibility to ensure that the Federal
Reserve is operating in the best inter-
ests of the American taxpayer, and this
bill will do just that.
New Jerseyans deserve to know how
the Fed is regulating our financial in-
stitutions, and Congress needs to know
how it can cut red tape and grow our
economy. But we can’t do that if the
Fed doesn’t come to testify on its su-
pervisory work.
My bill will help boost government
transparency and accountability for
the benefit of north Jersey and the rest
of the country.
f
HONORING BRYSON WATKINS
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to commend Bryson Watkins, a
13-year-old from Lenoir City in the
Second Congressional District of Ten-
nessee, for his selflessness and quick
thinking.
On February 13, Bryson saved an-
other young man’s life after receiving a
message through social media. Bryson
sprinted to inform a sheriff’s deputy,
and together, they initiated a response
by law enforcement.
In the aftermath of the event,
Loudon County Sheriff Tim Guider
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.025 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2629
March 11, 2019
honored Bryson with the Sheriff’s Cit-
izen Lifesaving Award.
On behalf of the Second District, I
extend my appreciation for Bryson’s
actions. We should recognize Bryson
for his integrity, compassion, and ma-
turity. Not many 13-year-olds, Mr.
Speaker, have the wherewithal to en-
counter a crisis situation and act so re-
sponsibly. He acted quickly and appro-
priately.
Bryson’s leadership in this situation
speaks volumes of the values that his
parents had instilled in him and the
community in which he was raised.
His ability to work with local law en-
forcement is also a tribute to the dedi-
cation of the Loudon County Sheriff’s
Department, Mr. Speaker, and I thank
them all for their commitment to the
community.
f
HONORING BARD HIGH SCHOOL
SCIENCE PROGRAM
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the Bard High
School Early College science faculty
for their work to advance science, tech-
nology, engineering, and math pro-
grams for their students.
Earlier this year, one of their teach-
ers, Maria Agapito, was only 1 of 35
science teachers in the country who
was selected by the Society for Science
and the Public to receive a $1,000 grant.
Ms. Agapito and other science teach-
ers will be using this grant to create a
multiyear science program for student
research. They will be able to use the
funds to help buy equipment and mate-
rials, and for student projects.
Science teachers at Bard and public
schools across the country are doing
great things to help their students pre-
pare for an increasingly technological
future.
I am proud to represent such bright
students and passionate educators.
Mr. Speaker, I thank all of America’s
teachers in this country and wish them
continued success.
f
RATIFY NEWLY NEGOTIATED
USMCA
(Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, since it is National Agri-
culture Week, I thought I would high-
light how important market access is
to South Dakota.
Now, the numbers don’t lie. South
Dakota is our Nation’s 10th largest ag
exporting State. In fact, we send out $4
billion of ag products every single year.
NAFTA deserves a lot of credit for
that. In fact, our Nation at large ex-
ports more than $38 billion every year
to Canada and Mexico.
We need to keep that momentum
going, which is why this body needs to
ratify the newly negotiated United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
USMCA is clearly better than
NAFTA was. Let’s be clear: That
doesn’t mean that it is perfect, but it
does mean that it is clearly better for
our country.
President Trump and his administra-
tion have made a number of much-
needed improvements to that trading
agreement. Let’s send a clear message
that the United States and South Da-
kota are open for business.
Mr. Speaker, let’s get to work.
f
SUPPORTING NATIONAL WOMEN
VETERANS RECOGNITION WEEK
(Mr. LAWSON of Florida asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. LAWSON of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to express support for a reso-
lution I filed to honor the heroic
women who have dedicated themselves
to serving our country with devotion
and distinction by designating March
10 through March 16 as National
Women Veterans Recognition Week.
This observance would celebrate the
achievement of our female veterans
and raise awareness to the unique chal-
lenges they face.
Women are now the fastest growing
segment of the veteran community.
Approximately 2 million women in the
United States are veterans.
Florida hosts the Nation’s largest
segment of population of women vet-
erans, especially in Duval County, in
my district, which has the largest
number of female veterans in the
State.
I want to take this time to recognize
one of my distinguished staffers, Sher-
ry Barfield, who was recently recog-
nized as one of the Northeast Florida
Women Veterans Center’s 2019 Women
Who Rock.
f
HONORING CARLTON GILL
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Mr. Carlton Gill, who passed away on
February 18 at the age of 78.
His friends remember Mr. Gill as a
man of many talents and an institution
in his hometown of Richmond Hill.
Both of these statements help to sum
up Mr. Gill but only serve to remind us
of a portion of his character.
A formidable figure who played bas-
ketball at both Georgia Southern Uni-
versity and the University of Georgia,
his many talents included working as a
procurement forester at S.A. Allen for
nearly 40 years, serving as a Bryan
County commissioner for five terms,
worshipping at Compassion Christian
Church as a deacon, and much more.
For his work in guiding Richmond
Hill through periods of significant
growth, a nearby section of I–95 is
named in his honor.
Others, though, will remember his
imposing stature and the respect he
commanded when entering the room.
But he never wavered in his ability to
be fair and honest, and to treat every-
one with that same level of respect. A
great leader of his community, Mr. Gill
will be missed.
His family and friends are in my
thoughts and prayers during this dif-
ficult time.
f
VISION OF NATION CRAFTED IN
BUDGET
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
every year, the vision of this Nation is
crafted in the budget that is offered ei-
ther by the President or the United
States Congress.
As a member of the Budget Com-
mittee, I am delighted that our theme
will be ‘‘For the People.’’ But today,
sadly, I think it is important to note
that the President offered a budget
that disregarded the American people:
$2.7 trillion in spending cuts coming
from the very bases that make Amer-
ica the greatest country in the world;
12 percent cutting in education, your
children’s education; 12 percent cutting
healthcare from the Department of
Health and Human Services; 11 percent
cutting from Interior, your parks and
museums and monuments; 23 percent
cutting from diplomacy, from the
State Department and international
health; 32 percent from the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, the quality
of water and air; and 22 percent to de-
crease mobility in this Nation, all
these dollars coming from what we call
domestic spending, with increased
spending in other areas where individ-
uals are not protected.
We will protect the people. The For
the People budget will be designed by
Democrats.
f
RECOGNIZING MAJOR GENERAL
MICHAEL A. CALHOUN
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the accomplish-
ments and the retirement of Major
General Michael A. Calhoun, who has
faithfully served America for over 40
years in numerous capacities, but most
recently as Florida’s Adjutant General
for the last 4 years.
General Calhoun began his service as
a private in 1977, and then he secured
his commission in the Medical Service
Corps. Throughout his distinguished
career, he has served at every level of
command in the State and was de-
ployed overseas in support of Operation
Iraqi Freedom, earning the respect and
confidence of all under his command.
During his time as Adjutant General,
he responded to five named storms that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.027 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2630 March 11, 2019
impacted the State of Florida, one of
which resulted in the largest mobiliza-
tion of Florida guardsmen in the
State’s history.
It was during that time that I had
the privilege of personally working ex-
tensively with General Calhoun, and I
can personally attest to his commit-
ment to excellence and to the people of
the State of Florida.
Despite the rapid pace of operations
over the past 4 years, General Calhoun
never lost sight of his mission.
Mr. Speaker, I thank him for his self-
less leadership and service, and I wish
him and his wife, Sophia, the best in
their retirement. A grateful State and
Nation say thank you.
f
b 1930
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WORK
(Mr. COHEN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I am proud
to serve on the Judiciary Committee in
the House and be the chairman of the
Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil
Liberties Subcommittee.
I want to report to the American peo-
ple that we passed out H.R. 1 that helps
clean up corruption in our government,
makes our government more trans-
parent, makes voting easier and open
to more people, and does other im-
provements the American people want.
We also passed out H.R. 8, the first
gun reform bill in over 20 years that
says you have to have background
checks on all sales.
This week, we will be marking up the
Violence Against Women Act. Hope-
fully, we will have bipartisan support
for that.
We will also have a hearing on renew-
ing the Voting Rights Act that never
should have been discarded by the Su-
preme Court. We will be having hear-
ings to get the Voting Rights Act back
on the law books in the United States.
And our subcommittee had a hearing
last week on the President’s powers on
emergency actions. We have bipartisan
agreement that we need to reform that
bill and will work together in a bipar-
tisan fashion.
f
HONORING PRIVATE FIRST-CLASS
ELIZABETH JOHNSON
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, during Women’s History
Month, we honor American women
whose exemplary lives have shaped the
country we love.
In 1945, Private First-Class Elizabeth
Johnson of Elkin, North Carolina, an-
swered the call to serve our country,
becoming one of 855 women to form the
6888th battalion, the first and only all-
female and all-Black battalion in
World War II.
They were given the task of deliv-
ering, in 1 year, a backlog of 1 year’s
worth of servicemembers’ mail waiting
to be delivered. But with their strong
dedication, in just 6 months, all letters
were delivered to servicemembers wait-
ing to hear from loved ones.
After a tour of duty in England and
France, Ms. Johnson became the first
woman to attend Winston-Salem State
University on the GI Bill and dedicated
over 30 years to teaching in Virginia
and North Carolina.
Mr. Speaker, I commend and thank
Ms. Johnson for her legacy of lifelong
service to fellow Americans.
f
NATIONAL AGRICULTURE WEEK
(Mr. HAGEDORN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HAGEDORN. Mr. Speaker, today,
I rise to recognize National Agriculture
Week.
I grew up on a grain and livestock
farm just outside of Truman, Min-
nesota, and have a deep appreciation
for agriculture and all it does for our
rural communities. Our ag-based econ-
omy is so critically important to our
Nation and, of course, the State of
Minnesota and southern Minnesota,
which is our First District.
The people in southern Minnesota
really appreciate our ag producers, our
ag processors, our ag equipment deal-
ers, and all the rest. I can tell you that
in Minnesota’s First District, one of
the top crop and livestock districts in
all the country, we actually were num-
ber two for hogs in the entire Nation.
Our First District is home to nearly
20,000 farmers. Considering that each
farm produces enough food to feed
about 165 people, the reach of our farm-
ers goes throughout the United States
and all around the world.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to com-
memorating and talking about the
value of agriculture and our farmers
during this week and throughout this
Congress.
f
RECOGNIZING PATRICIA
SINCAVAGE
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, Friday
was International Women’s Day and,
today, I rise to recognize the service of
a remarkable woman in my district:
Ms. Patricia Sincavage of Lititz, Penn-
sylvania.
Ms. Sincavage has served as an occu-
pational therapist at the Lebanon Vet-
erans Affairs Medical Center since 1978.
She joined the VA after graduating
from Elizabethtown College. The Leb-
anon VA serves about 80 percent of the
veterans who reside in my district.
She has spent the entirety of her pro-
fessional career giving back to our vet-
erans. Occupational therapy can assist
veterans in continuing to take care of
their health needs while still doing the
activities they enjoy simply by adapt-
ing or doing things differently.
Ms. Sincavage is retiring from the
VA after 43 years of service. She has
four children, 11 grandchildren, and one
great-grandchild. She has served our
Nation’s veterans well, and it is an
honor to recognize her today.
f
VENEZUELA
(Mr. GAETZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GAETZ. Mr. Speaker, as I deliver
these remarks, the people of Venezuela
are without food, water, medicine, and
now even electricity.
The organizing principle of American
policy seems to be the need to drive
Maduro from power. What if Maduro is
not really in power right now? What if
the people who are really calling the
shots in Venezuela are a group of
transnational criminal organizations
that merely maintain Maduro as a fig-
urehead? And what if their entire pur-
pose is to draw the United States into
an ill-advised war to create a massive
migration of people throughout Latin
America, eroding borders, jeopardizing
nation-states, and ultimately leading
to a permissive environment for more
illicit activity to occur?
These are important questions we
have to ask. My constituents have to
go to Central and South America and
fight these wars. And certainly, as a
Congress, we need to be very critical in
our thinking to not get our Nation in
another ill-advised war.
f
MOURNING THE TRAGIC LOSS OF
LIFE OF ETHIOPIAN AIRLINES
CRASH
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, it is
with great sadness I rise today to
mourn the tragic loss of life on Sunday
morning as an Ethiopian Airlines jet
carrying 157 people crashed only 6 min-
utes after takeoff. On board that flight
were people from 35 different countries,
including 8 U.S. citizens, with no sur-
vivors.
This tragedy hits close to home for
those of us from northern California.
Two of the eight Americans were from
my own district in Shasta County.
Melvin and Bennett Riffel, two broth-
ers from Redding, California, were em-
barking upon an adventure that had al-
ready taken them through Australia
and Mogadishu before they arrived in
Ethiopia. It has been said that this was
their last trip together before Melvin
was set to become a father, together
with his wife Brittney, who had only
recently returned home.
Our friends and neighbors in north-
ern California share in the sadness and
grief that we all feel for their families,
and for all of the families who lost
loved ones that day on that plane.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.029 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2631
March 11, 2019
As we await more information on ex-
actly what went wrong, please join me
in praying for Melvin and Bennett,
their families, and all the others who
boarded that fateful flight that day.
f
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF WEST
POINT ASSOCIATION OF GRAD-
UATES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Illi-
nois (Mr. SHIMKUS) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I am
happy to be joined by my colleagues
who graduated from West Point, our
alma mater, and our colleague, who
represents the West Point community
and the area.
Why are we talking about the acad-
emy today? Well, we are close to what
we call our Founders Day, which is
March 17, but this is also a special
year. It is the 150th anniversary of the
Association of Graduates, which keeps
the alumni informed and connected
with our alma mater.
The 150th anniversary will be May 22,
2019, so we thought we would come
down to the floor to talk about the ex-
perience and the importance of the
military academies—of course, West
Point being the oldest and the best—to
our Nation and its security.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from New York (Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY), from Hudson Valley, who
represents West Point and the sur-
rounding communities.
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate the 150th anniversary of
the West Point Association of Grad-
uates.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to represent
the cadets, faculty, Active Duty sol-
diers, and the many alumni of the
United States military academy at
West Point in New York’s Hudson Val-
ley. In fact, I live right across the
river, and I hear the cannon every
morning and every night. It is a won-
derful way to wake up and go to bed.
Just take a few steps on the grounds
at West Point and it will be clear to
you that West Point is much more
than a school. It is a community of de-
votion made up of the best and bright-
est of our Nation’s past, our Nation’s
present, and our Nation’s future.
Think of the legends and heroes who
have graduated from West Point. Such
a pantheon clearly deserves more than
a run-of-the-mill alumni association.
Accordingly, the West Point Associa-
tion of Graduates has fulfilled that
need. It goes above and beyond, and it
deserves the recognition we are giving
it tonight.
I want to thank my friend, the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. SHIMKUS), a
member of the association himself, for
leading this Special Order to honor the
organization for the services and fel-
lowship opportunities it provides to
graduates of all ages.
Our country’s premier military acad-
emy has produced generations of lead-
ers in all fields, including 2 U.S. Presi-
dents, 18 astronauts, 19 Rhodes schol-
ars, 76 Medal of Honor winners, and
countless numbers of the Fortune 500
CEO’s list, Cabinet secretaries, Gov-
ernors, Senators, and, for those who
didn’t do very well, Members of Con-
gress.
These men and women are connected
by ‘‘The Long Grey Line,’’ the affec-
tionate reference to the unique ties
that bind all graduates. They are
linked by their commitment to living
and, at times, even dying in service of
the motto ‘‘Duty, Honor, Country.’’
But they are also connected through
the tireless work of an exemplary
alumni association. For 150 years, the
West Point Association of Graduates
has fostered these connections by al-
lowing generations of graduates to grip
hands with one another.
In some ways, the association is like
other alumni associations, but like all
things West Point, it is much more.
The association provides mentorship
and fellowship for younger alums, but
often these alums are also returning
veterans who need a hand when they
come back.
It supports local chapters across the
country and around the world. But for
a group as far-flung as West Point
grads, these connections give graduates
a sense of community when they are
far from home.
It also helps graduates who have been
hurt by hurricanes, tornadoes, fires,
and other natural disasters.
And it even offers a professional me-
morial services coordinator to help
grieving families navigate the funeral
process at West Point when that dif-
ficult time arrives.
These are the kind of people who
make up The Long Grey Line in the
West Point Association of Graduates.
They are fiercely committed to our
country and to each other.
During times of division, West Point
graduates still rally around their
shared values and experiences to build
bridges and remind all of us what it is
to be an American.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the West
Point Association of Graduates for 150
years of connecting distinguished
alumni and providing a helping hand to
folks in need. I thank them for their
service, and here is to another 150
years.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague for doing that great sum-
mation, because I brought my col-
leagues down here and they are prob-
ably going to talk a little bit more
about the micro aspects of classes,
friends, and experiences over the years.
But I do appreciate the gentleman’s
work for and support of West Point and
the community. And I know he will al-
ways be a good steward of the campus,
the cadets, the staff, and the faculty,
so I thank him for coming down.
Mr. Speaker, usually, we manage
things here in the House by seniority
based upon, again, elected Congress.
But at West Point, it is a very competi-
tive institution, and our seniority is
based upon the graduation class. So I
am going to turn things upside down
here on the floor and go by seniority,
which means one of our newly elected
Members of Congress will get a chance
to speak first.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Tennessee (Mr. GREEN).
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Mr. Speak-
er, in 1781, General George Washington
called the fortifications at West Point
the most important post in America.
Holding West Point meant preventing
the British from dividing the Nation
along the Hudson River Valley.
Following the war, President Wash-
ington made numerous efforts to create
a military academy. His actual first ef-
fort was within a year of becoming the
Commander in Chief. However, it fell
to Thomas Jefferson to get it done and,
in 1802, the United States Military
Academy at West Point was founded as
the Nation’s school to teach the art
and science of warfare.
Since its inception, West Point grad-
uates have served to preserve our Na-
tion’s freedom in battle. From the
Mexican wars to the war on terror,
West Point graduates have sacrificed
their lives and their youth to win our
Nation’s wars.
Off the battlefield, West Point grad-
uates have served at the very highest
levels of the U.S. military as legisla-
tors, Cabinet secretaries, Governors,
Presidents, and CEOs leading the devel-
opment of our Nation’s infrastructure
and the establishment of the world’s
greatest economy.
b 1945
For young people who choose West
Point over a traditional education, it is
truly a different path.
From the moment you start in Beast
Barracks, a cadet lives by the code of
conduct of the military officer, recog-
nizing that their life becomes second to
the safety of Americans.
Almost 100 West Point graduates
have given their lives in this most re-
cent war. It is that commitment to the
Nation made at such a young age that
makes the place so special.
What sets West Point as an institu-
tion apart is just about everything
that happens there: the grueling aca-
demics; the compulsory participation
in sports; the military drill; the mili-
tary training; and perhaps most note-
worthy, the leadership and character
development. West Point even uses our
math classes to teach cadets how to
present themselves and to hone their
military bearing.
But for me, what took my experience
at West Point to the next level were
the men and women who made up my
class, the class of 1986.
Our motto is ‘‘Courage Never Quits,
’86.’’
We came to West Point from all over
the country, men and women from
every State, nearly every religion,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.031 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2632 March 11, 2019
every ethnic origin; and we came to-
gether as one team fighting to get
through the Academy’s rigorous edu-
cation. Almost one-third who started
our class left before graduating.
Over the years, we celebrated to-
gether, served in the Army together.
Many left the military to serve else-
where in government and business. But
each of us has tried to live by that
motto, ‘‘Courage Never Quits,’’ and
boy, have we.
Our class has produced 18 general of-
ficers: four 3-star generals; we have no
4-stars yet because we haven’t been out
of the Academy long enough; in addi-
tion, we have nine 2-stars and six 1-star
generals.
Our class produced a Secretary of
State, a Secretary of the Army. Two of
us have served in Congress, one of
whom went on to be the Director of the
CIA and, of course, Secretary of State.
We have had at least two State legis-
lators. Three judges come from our
ranks, as well as at least four deans
and chancellors of universities.
We have served at senior levels
throughout the government, from the
Department of State to the FBI, to the
leadership of the Defense Logistics
Agency, to consultants to Presidents of
the United States.
Twenty-two-plus members of my
class are presidents and CEOs of major
corporations, from 7–Eleven to Mer-
cedes-Benz USA.
And, yes, we, too, have had those in
our ranks make the ultimate sacrifice
for our freedom. Be thou at peace.
More than anything, more than just
the amazing location on the Hudson
River, more than the unparalleled his-
tory of the place, more than the gruel-
ing academics, more than its unbeliev-
able place in our Nation’s great story,
what pushes me to serve is the knowl-
edge of what my peers have accom-
plished. Their hard work reminds me to
never stop reading, learning, growing,
and serving. They are my motivation,
and they are why I will never quit.
Rangers Lead The Way.
Night Stalkers Don’t Quit.
Courage Never Quits, ’86.
Go Army. Beat Navy.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague, and I appreciate his
service in uniform and, of course, here
on the floor. We are happy to have him
here.
Next, I yield to the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. GUTHRIE), almost my
neighbor on the North American con-
tinent.
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, my motto as the class
of ’87: Our Country We Strengthen, ’87.
It is great to be here, and I want to
start with a story.
After I went through the Academy,
graduated from West Point, spent time
in the 101st Airborne Division, I de-
cided to do something different with
my life and went into business. I went
to business school. I was in New Eng-
land in business school.
One time, I was driving back from a
visit to Franklin Roosevelt’s home on
the Hudson River and was at a grocery
store—Stew Leonard’s, some people
know from Danbury, Connecticut. I
was standing outside with a kid, and a
guy walks by, and he says: Well, Ken-
tucky plates. What are you doing here
in Connecticut?
I said: Well, I am up here in graduate
school, and we just went to Franklin
Roosevelt’s home. I just love the Hud-
son River. The Hudson Valley is just
stunningly beautiful.
The guy looked at me. He didn’t
know my background, didn’t know who
I was. So he said: Well, if you love the
Hudson River, let me suggest you
ought to spend a weekend at West
Point. Let me suggest you go on Satur-
day, on a football Saturday, because
you are not going to believe this, but
they actually go to class on Saturday.
I said: Are you kidding me? I mean,
people actually go to a school that goes
to class on Saturday?
And he said: Yeah. And then they
have a parade, and all the cadets are
standing—and I didn’t have the heart
to tell them, tell him we were telling
jokes to each other, and said—look
pristine, you know, from 100 yards
away.
But he went through the day at West
Point, and he walked through it. And
he said a picnic and tailgating and
football, and all the great stuff and the
fun times you have here. But you do
have good times even though you have
very difficult times.
And when he finally finished, I didn’t
have the heart to tell him the truth
and tell him the story. So as soon as he
finished, I just looked at him and said:
I have always heard about West Point,
and I have always heard this: ‘‘It is a
great place to visit, but you wouldn’t
want to live there.’’
And the reason that you wouldn’t
want to live there is because it is
tough. It is hard. It is not something
you can do just simply. It is something
you sacrifice for and you move to-
wards.
One of my great thrills is you get to
nominate people who attend our acad-
emies—all of our academies—and to
call them and tell them when they
have received an appointment.
I just talked to a young man this
week, he is going to West Point, and a
couple, unfortunately, to the Navy—
but a couple at West Point and a cou-
ple at the Air Force Academy. They
are deciding to do something big and
different with their lives than their
classmates.
But I want to talk about, just real
briefly, you do run across some great
people.
I always say the reason that H. R.
McMaster was probably, I think, the
greatest soldier of our generation is his
very first challenge was teaching me
how to march correctly. He was my
squad leader at Beast Barracks, and I
was a challenge to him, I am sure, so
his first leadership challenge.
We heard my previous speaker talk
about his classmates, Mark Esper, who
was in my company and now Secretary
of the Army; got to serve on Energy
and Commerce with Mike Pompeo, now
Secretary of State.
My class actually entered West Point
in 1983, so I got my appointment in
February of ’83. In March of ’83, Ronald
Reagan gave his speech in Orlando,
Florida, about the evil empire, and
then during my time in the 101st, the
Berlin Wall came down. So I literally
served from the evil empire to the fall
of the Berlin Wall.
A lot of my classmates—me being
one of them, and this shows what a
great prognosticator I am—and all of
us thought the Army was going to be
boring for the next 20 years. And, man,
my prayers that that was absolutely—
would have come true, but it wasn’t.
So my commemoration today is a lot
of my classmates did leave the Army in
the early nineties. Those who spent
time in a career—whether 20 years, 30
years, some still serving—they really
have sacrificed for this country more
than I could ever imagine.
My one experience with it as a Mem-
ber of Congress—not as a combat sol-
dier, but a Member of Congress—I took
my first trip into a combat zone to
Iraq. I remember sitting in the head-
quarters waiting for General Barbero
to come give us a briefing, and an ’06
colonel comes walking in. Some of us
may know because he did congressional
affairs after this.
It was Joe Simonelli, who was a big,
blustery, great guy who served, just
kind of a leader of our class. And he
comes walking in, and it just struck
me that he has been doing this for the
last—then it would have been the last
almost 20 years, spending half of his
life going overseas to serve our coun-
try. I was just there for a day and a
half and was ready to get home, and he
was there for a year. It just struck me.
So my hat is off to my classmates—
and not to just people who graduated
from West Point, but every man and
woman who has the courage and the
conviction and the strength and every-
thing about them to put on our uni-
form. And every single one of them,
every single person serving in our uni-
form volunteered to do so. It is just
amazing that we have young men and
women like that.
So my hat is off for my classmates
because we are talking about our time
at West Point, those who served 20 and
30 years, who have made a difference
for this country and have sacrificed
like no other has over the course of
time.
We have, certainly, people in more
combat-type style conflicts, but I
would dare say, in the history of our
country, a group of people who grad-
uated the time that we have have not
spent more time in active combat back
and forth.
Mr. Speaker, my hat is off to them.
They are my brothers and sisters. I
love them dearly, and I appreciate
their service.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.033 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2633
March 11, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague for his comments.
I think what Congressman GUTHRIE
has said, article II of the Association of
Graduates Constitution, states the ob-
ject of this association shall be to cher-
ish the memories of our alma mater
and to promote the social intercourse
and fraternal fellowship of its grad-
uates, and I think we are seeing that
tonight.
You see some snickering and some
guffawing, and I think we all get trans-
ported back in time. In fact, in pre-
paring for this, I did like Congressman
GREEN and got a list of my classmates
and then started working on notes on
Friday night and Saturday. I am tell-
ing you, I had nightmares on Saturday
night; I had nightmares on Sunday be-
cause that experience was brought
back to life for me, which I cherished.
I am now happy to yield to the gen-
tleman from Ohio, Congressman DAVID-
SON.
Before I turn it all over to him, one
of the benefits that the academies do,
and West Point does, is just doesn’t get
what they consider the brightest and
the best in our secondary education
system, but they make sure that they
reach into our active military forces
and find those young men and women
who are showing to their chain of com-
mand exceptional opportunity with a
chance to promote and become an offi-
cer. Congressman DAVIDSON is one of
those, and that is why I yield to him,
the class of ’95.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I thank this body for the opportunity
to recognize our alma mater and our
Association of Graduates at the United
States Military Academy at West
Point.
As Mr. SHIMKUS was highlighting, I
didn’t come the easy way. As a friend
of mine likes to say, sometimes God
will bring you the easiest way you will
go.
For me, my journey to West Point
started in my high school guidance
counselor’s classroom in September of
senior year. Most people realize that is
kind of a late start for the path that it
takes to go to one of our Nation’s serv-
ice academies.
And then she asked me what I wanted
to do, And I said: Well, I want to be an
Army ranger.
She said: Well, you know, you are
pretty smart. You should go to college.
You should consider college, at least.
I said: Well, you know, I thought
about going to West Point. Then I
could be in the Army and go to college.
She looked at me like she felt sorry
for me. She said: Well, baby, that is not
going to happen.
That wasn’t mean; it was realistic. I
had not done the work that it would
take to get there.
She walked me through who nor-
mally gets in: The salutatorians, the
valedictorians, the people with the
high GPAs while being captain of
sports, Eagle Scouts, and what not. I
recognized some of my classmates who
had been on that path, and I recognized
that that is not the path that I had
been on. No one in my family on my
dad’s side had gone to college.
So she told me: You should work on
some other plans.
So I did them. I enlisted in the Army.
And when I got to the Army, thank-
fully, some of BRETT GUTHRIE’s class-
mates, 1987 graduates Larry Bradley
and Terry Finley, were platoon leaders.
Larry Bradley ended up being my
platoon leader for a composite platoon
that got training by the 10th Special
Forces Group down in Bad Tolz, Ger-
many. And it was there, during that
platoon, that I learned that the Berlin
Wall had come down, that it wasn’t
part of the training, it wasn’t just a
jazzy intro to a speech.
Some noncommissioned officers
stepped up and said: Write this day
down. It is going to be one of the most
famous days in history, 9 November
1989.
We thought: Bold intro.
But from that, I had a chance to do
something unbelievable that was the
culmination not just of graduates of
the United States Military Academy,
but the culmination of people who had
fought to win that war. So many of
them West Point graduates, like Eisen-
hower, like Bradley, like Patton, who
helped liberate a people in that con-
tinent.
But I got to see the culmination of
that as the wall came down not be-
cause Mr. Gorbachev tore it down or
Mr. Reagan tore it down, but because
the East German people found out
what was on the other side of it, and
they tore their own wall down. And
they found out that the fruits of our
ideology had produced shockingly dif-
ferent results than what their ideology
had produced.
b 2000
It is shocking today to think that we
might relive some of those bad choices
that led to poverty and scarcity on the
other side of the wall while our ideas
led to abundance and flourishing, not
perfectly, but far superior.
From there, I went to the prep
school, and I met classmates like
Ranger Bill Lynn. His first unit deploy-
ment led him to jump into Panama,
and he had a combat jump there. I met
classmates at the prep school who
didn’t make it to West Point. Indeed,
one of my 1995 classmates is currently
the commandant of the United States
Military Academy Preparatory School.
It is a great path, but I also met peo-
ple who had not been in the Army. I
met people who had come there to in-
crease the diversity objectives of the
Military Academy, who needed a little
more strength on their academics or
maybe who needed to balance the aca-
demics with the athletics that they
were going to be able to participate in.
That was about half the class.
I learned about a special club at West
Point shortly after I came called the
Two-Percent Club, and I met my wife.
The Two-Percent Club, for those who
don’t know, are those who start with a
girlfriend and graduate with the same
girlfriend and end up marrying that
girl. I am thankful today that I am
married to my Lisa. People would talk
about Lisa this, and Lisa that, but I
would always refer to my Lisa, the girl
who chose to marry me.
We experienced cadet life in a dif-
ferent way. We have all these memories
of things like the cadet in the red sash
stepping up to the line, but not on the
line or over the line. We remember
things like Beast Barracks in Buckner,
Boodlers runs, spinning the spurs. We
remember the honor code and the char-
acter that was so prominently featured
there, that, ‘‘A cadet will not lie,
cheat, or steal, nor tolerate those who
do.’’
We remember how hard it was to live
with the consequences for people who
made those bad decisions, who you
knew to be good people, who came to
be separated because it was taken very
seriously there.
We saw in the cadet parades that we
talked about on the parade fields The
Long Gray Line for the ceremonies
where they would lay a wreath for
Founders Day at the statue of Colonel
Sylvanus Thayer. You would see men
and women in uniform, but you would
see senior citizens at the front of the
line.
The oldest graduate would lay the
wreath—often in a wheelchair, feebly
mustering every ounce of strength nec-
essary sometimes to move from that
chair to lay that wreath with pride at
the statue in front of the sup’s house.
We remember the million-dollar view
at Trophy Point, and we remember the
quarter-million-dollar education one
nickel at a time as we studied.
We remember friends and classmates
who helped us through the hard times.
We remember the knowledge like duty,
honor, country, or Schofield’s Defini-
tion of Discipline.
We remember the seriousness with
which nearly every one of us took the
opportunity to be prepared, should the
case arise that we would lead our Na-
tion’s young men and women in com-
bat, that we would be ready to face the
challenge. Many of my classmates did
that.
I served 5 years in great units, the
Old Guard, the 101st Airborne Division,
and the 75th Ranger Regiment. I left
Active Duty, which shocked many of
my classmates, and I found a great
sense of purpose, that to give a lifetime
of service to the Nation didn’t always
mean in uniform. But you still look in
awe at the sacrifice that so many have
made who continued on in Active Duty,
especially those who gave the last full
measure to keep our Nation free and to
bring honor to The Long Gray Line.
Today, as I look at young men and
women and have the privilege of call-
ing them and congratulating them on
all of the work that it takes to do it—
generally, the right way—the advanced
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.034 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2634 March 11, 2019
knowledge and the preparation—the
more common way—the disciplined
path that started earlier in life, I am
encouraged because there are so many
talented young men and women who
still want to put on our Nation’s uni-
form to make sure that our Nation is
made and kept free with an all-volun-
teer force committed to serve our
country.
I look at The Long Gray Line today,
a line that is a very tight-knit alumni
organization where friends could be
distant for years, even decades, and, in
a moment, connect as if you just fin-
ished playing spades with one another
after hours, ditching the late-lights
penalties.
I look forward to those times. I cher-
ish those memories. And I am so
thankful to the West Point Association
of Graduates, which has set a great ex-
ample of how to bond classmates to-
gether to serve the cause and interest
of our great alma mater so that this
Long Gray Line may continue to flour-
ish always.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague for joining us tonight. He
makes me think of a lot of things.
I want to make sure that we don’t
forget the staff and faculty, the De-
partment of Army civilians, and the
spouses and the families who make up
the whole West Point experience.
A lot of times, staff and faculty will
adopt a cadet to be their family while
they are away. I am from Illinois, and
New York was a pretty long distance. I
was fortunate to be, in essence, adopt-
ed by Colonel Woodard and Mary Ellen
Woodard. They were my pseudo family
there, and, boy, did I need it. That was
kind of joked about.
I also remember going and visiting
many times instructors after hours on
a program we called additional instruc-
tion. I thought I was smart in high
school. I found out in college-level en-
gineering school, I wasn’t as smart as I
thought I was. I needed a lot of assist-
ance to get through the academic pro-
gram there, so I appreciated it.
Many of those staff and faculty
teachers were West Point graduates, so
they not only had the book learning,
but they knew the experience we were
all going through.
I brought down my yearbook and
paged through it. General Omar Brad-
ley attended our graduation, which
shows you the length, depth, and width
of The Long Gray Line. It was a special
time to be able to see that connection.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Kansas (Mr. WATKINS), our most
junior graduate—maybe we would call
him a plebe in our lexicon—but a fresh-
man Member of Congress.
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Duty, honor, country. The United
States possesses the greatest military
in the history of mankind, and it isn’t
even close. How is that possible since,
through the ages, warfare changes, our
enemies change, the geography
changes, the ideology that we are up
against changes.
I would contest that the reason we
consistently win our Nation’s wars is
because our greatest attribute never
does change. Those are the values that
we hold dear. It is the leadership prin-
ciples that every graduate of the
United States Military Academy
learns.
How on Earth could that be encap-
sulated? The best I could hope for is to
call on General MacArthur, who in
1962, to the United States Corps of Ca-
dets, said: ‘‘Duty, honor, country:
Those three hallowed words reverently
dictate what you ought to be, what you
can be, what you will be. They are your
rallying point to build courage when
courage seems to fail, to regain faith
when there seems to be little cause for
faith, to create hope when hope be-
comes forlorn.’’
The United States Military Academy
has a sacred place in my heart, to the
class of 1999, with duty in mind. I want
to thank God for West Point. I want to
thank The Long Gray Line. And God
bless you USMA, my rockbound high-
land home.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague for joining us tonight.
We have people who watch and par-
ticipate in the Army-Navy games.
There is now a new kind of challenge
for either the midshipmen or the Corps
of Cadets, and it is a fight to see who
sings second. If you watch the Army-
Navy game, at the end, after a tremen-
dous battle on the field of friendly
strife, both sides will join together on
each side, and they will listen as the
alma maters are sung. The goal is to be
the one who gets to sing second, be-
cause that means that you have won
the football game.
I would like to read the alma mater
of West Point.
Hail, Alma Mater dear,
To us be ever near.
Help us thy motto bear
Through all the years.
Let Duty be well performed.
Honor be e’er untarned
Country be ever armed.
West Point, by thee.
Guide us, thine own, aright
Teach us by day, by night,
To keep thine honor bright,
For thee to fight.
When we depart from thee,
Serving on land or sea,
May we stand loyal be,
West Point, to thee
And when our work is done,
Our course on earth is run,
May it be said, ‘‘Well done’’
Be thou at peace.’’
E’er may that line of gray
Increase from day to day
Live, serve, and die, we pray,
West Point, for thee.
I want to talk about my class, the
class of 1980, a little bit. They are now
mostly part of that Long Gray Line.
We have some still on Active Duty, but
they are leaving soon, and they have
served faithfully over the years.
Folks will recognize some of these
names. Our motto was ‘‘Pride and Ex-
cellence.’’ These are the statistics I got
from AOG. We all know that there is
garbage in, garbage out, so some of my
classmates are not updating their
records. They may not be 100 percent
accurate, but the numbers are pretty
good.
We graduated with 902. We think
there are 23 who are deceased.
We graduated 62 women. These are
the pioneers. This is the first class of
women who graduated from West
Point. They are very close. I talk with
many of them frequently, and we are
all very proud of them. It was not easy
for these women, as you can imagine,
in an all-male institution, and they are
a tribute to our class.
We have four four-star generals or of-
ficers. Two recently retired, Brooks
and Perkins. We still have Thomas,
who is the commander of Special Oper-
ations Command, and Votel, who is
commander at CENTCOM. They are
both retiring soon.
We had six lieutenant generals,
Donohue, Cheek, Hodges, Lanza,
Chipman, and Linnington, and they are
retired.
We had eight major generals and nine
brigadier generals, the one stars. I
want to note Brigadier General Retired
Anne MacDonald who, for our women
classmates, rose to the highest ranks
of military service.
We have religious leaders in our
class, pastors, chaplains, deacons. One
that I like to always catch up with and
follow is Nancy Gucwa, who is a Bene-
dictine Sister, Nancy Rose Gucwa, who
retired as lieutenant colonel and then
became a nun.
b 2015
We have medical doctors, and we
have university professors. I would also
like to highlight Jeff Williams, our as-
tronaut who has spent more time in
space as a guide of the United States
NASA program. Now there is a female
astronaut who just surpassed him, but
he has been in space quite a bit, and we
are very, very proud of him.
I think what is also interesting is
that people talk about the military
academies and these institutions as the
proverbial return on investment. I
think my colleagues have talked about
the selfless service of their classmates
and the people they have met. I think
the interesting thing that I came upon
in just going over some data from my
class is we know that every graduate,
for the most part, goes to serve in Ac-
tive Duty, and the desire is for a 20-
year service at a minimum. But a lot of
people choose not to do that. I think
what surprised me was how many peo-
ple picked up the mantle in other
branches of service or in the Reserve
program. So out of the 902, I think
about 422 retired from military service,
that is getting close to 50 percent.
What are those?
That is, obviously, the United States
Army, the United States Army Re-
serve, and the United States Army Na-
tional Guard. We had a couple retired
from the Air Force, and we had one re-
tire, I think from the Coast Guard. So
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.036 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2635
March 11, 2019
selfless service, even as a part-time,
and those who follow the military
today, if you are in the Reserves or you
are in the Guard, you are working, and
you can be deployed. It is not a week-
end warrior status anymore. They are
part of the total military force.
We also have published authors, col-
lege professors, master level, world-
class athletes, and even an artist.
Some of our classmates now have their
children who are already graduates,
who already served their time and are
already out of the service, so genera-
tion after generation of families. That
is just an example of one of our classes.
The Association of Graduates does a
good job, as was noted here, trying to
keep us connected to our alma mater.
We have folks that come, not only from
every one of the 50 States based on the
way the nomination process goes, but
we also have folks from foreign coun-
tries who are invited to serve and go
through the program, and that is the
unity the association of graduates at-
tempts to do.
So this night was spent to really ac-
complish two things: one, to com-
memorate the 150th anniversary of the
Association of Graduates whose goal
was to keep these bonds of friendship
and keep reminding us of the goal of
duty, honor, country.
Another part was to thank our class-
mates who have served with us, who
help get us through the 4 years of
training in the program, thanks to
staff and faculty, thanks to the Depart-
ment of Army Civilians, thanks to
maintainers to allow us—really we
should thank the national government
for continuing to support the great in-
stitutions of higher military learning
and training like West Point, Annap-
olis, the Air Force Academy, the Mer-
chant Marine Academy, and the Coast
Guard Academy.
I am going to end with the end of the
Douglas MacArthur speech. Congress-
man WATKINS read the first part. I was
going to read that too because it is one
of my favorites.
I will end on this, Mr. Speaker. This
is the end of the speech General Doug-
las MacArthur gave to the Corps of Ca-
dets: ‘‘But in the evening of my mem-
ory, always I come back to West Point.
Always there echoes and re-echoes:
Duty, Honor, Country. Today marks
my final roll call with you, but I want
you to know that when I cross the river
my last conscious thoughts will be of
The Corps, and The Corps, and The
Corps. I bid you farewell.’’
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
HONORING WOMEN’S HISTORY
MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. SOTO) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the majority
leader.
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
Speaker for the opportunity. We cer-
tainly appreciate the esteemed institu-
tion that is West Point. May I also say
that the United States Marines are
also a great institution, and I want to
thank the Speaker for his service in Af-
ghanistan and in Iraq as well.
RECOGNIZING MELINDA JONES WILLIAMS
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Melinda Jones Williams.
Melinda Jones Williams, a civil
rights activist, was born March 14, 1950,
in Americus, Georgia. She is currently
a resident of Haines City, Florida, with
one child, Jeffrey Jones.
In July, 1963, Melinda Jones Williams
was one of 15 young Black girls with a
passion to change the bigotry and divi-
siveness in Americus, Georgia, by pro-
testing a strong force of generational
racism. During a peaceful protest, she
was arrested along with 14 other young
girls. These girls were all stolen, hid-
den from their parents, and locked in
an abandoned building for over a
month. There were no windows, toilets,
and no source of water.
This was their punishment for pro-
testing a segregated movie theater.
Melinda Jones Williams is one of the
few remaining survivors of the Stolen
Girls of Americus, Georgia.
For that and her heroism in the civil
rights movement, we thank you, Ms.
Jones Williams.
RECOGNIZING CHARLIE REED
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Charlie Reed.
She was born and raised in Kis-
simmee, Florida, my hometown. She
was the first in her family to graduate
from college with a degree in jour-
nalism from the University of Florida
in 1997. She has worked at the Orlando
Sentinel, Osceola News-Gazette, and
Treasure Coast Newspapers. While
working for the Stars and Stripes
newspaper, she has covered inter-
national defense, geopolitics, and the
U.S. military community.
After a reporting trip to Vietnam,
Charlie moved there to do volunteer
work and write about Vietnam vet-
erans living in the place where they
fought a war so many years before.
While living in Vietnam, she was
named editor for an English-language
Vietnamese magazine and worked
closely with several NGOs helping
Agent Orange victims and impover-
ished children.
Charlie came back to Kissimmee in
2014 to reconnect with her Florida
roots. It was a homecoming that led
her back to the staff at the Osceola
News-Gazette. As a seasoned journalist
who has lived around the world, Char-
lie knows no stranger. Her ability to
connect with people and understand
their problems is perhaps her greatest
strength. Charlie’s life work is about
more than chasing a story. It is about
serving the community, being an advo-
cate for the public, a voice for the
voiceless and shining light on corrup-
tion. The pleasure she experiences
while helping others is truly all hers.
For that, Charlie Reed, we recognize
you.
RECOGNIZING JUANITA GEATHERS
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Juanita Geathers.
Juanita Geathers has six children
and nine grandchildren with her hus-
band, Lemuel Geathers, former mayor
of Winter Haven. She has spent 34
years as an educator in Polk County
schools, retiring as an assistant prin-
cipal in 2004. She graduated from
Jewett High School as valedictorian in
1959, went on to receive her bachelor of
science degree from Rollins College and
a master’s in education from the Uni-
versity of South Florida.
Juanita served as Secretary for the
Florida Democratic Party State Execu-
tive Committee and was the highest
ranking African American woman dur-
ing her tenure as Secretary. She also
served as a Democratic National Con-
vention delegate from Florida for three
conventions.
As an active member of her commu-
nity, she is a recipient of the Out-
standing Community Service Award.
She has served on the Polk Education
Association, Polk County Opportunity
Council, Polk County Voters League,
Girls and Boys Club, and Girls, Inc. She
is also a lifetime member of the
NAACP and a member of the Hurst
Chapel AME Church.
For that, Ms. Juanita Geathers, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING MONICA READUS
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Monica Readus.
Monica Readus is a wife, mother,
business owner, and real estate profes-
sional. She was born in Detroit, Michi-
gan.
After moving to Texas, Monica be-
came aware of a shift in the political
climate. After the 2004 Presidential
race, Democrats were discouraged and
Dallas Republicans were running unop-
posed. It was at that time that Monica
took time away from the company’s
day-to-day operations to become a full-
time volunteer for the Collin County
Democratic Party office in Plano,
Texas.
Since then, Monica has worked with
candidates and campaign managers, co-
ordinated grassroots efforts for local
and Federal elections, and fundraised
for candidates and more. In 2011
Monica moved to Florida where she im-
mediately began coordinating grass-
roots efforts for Organizing for Amer-
ica by spearheading daily phone banks.
She then joined the Democratic Wom-
en’s Club of Florida of West Orange
County, serving as its first president.
She now happily serves as the Demo-
cratic Women’s Club of Florida Region
9 chair, serving nearly 600 members and
the chair of the Annual PerSisters
Rally in celebration of Democratic
Women’s Month.
For that, Monica Readus, we honor
you.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.038 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2636 March 11, 2019
RECOGNIZING LISA SANTONI CROMAR
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Lisa Santoni Cromar.
Lisa Santoni Cromar is a legally deaf
Puerto Rican woman. She is the moth-
er to two boys, Nicholas and William,
and the wife to Scott Cromar. She was
born in 1962 to Puerto Rican parents,
Trina and Jose Santoni. Her early ca-
reer was in corporate IT. At age 30, she
divorced her first husband and went to
work for the domestic violence agency
that helped her leave. After meeting
her husband, Scott, he had a friend
running for Congress, which presented
an opportunity to transition to polit-
ical consulting and issue advocacy. She
has served as voting chair and co-chair,
and is now an executive board member
of the Women’s March of Florida.
In 2003, the longtime consequences of
her Meniere’s disease became unbear-
able, resulting in severe hearing loss.
In 2016, Lisa moved to Longwood, Flor-
ida. Like everyone else in her new com-
munity, she was horrified by the Pulse
nightclub shooting. The lack of family
support for some of the victims com-
bined with memories of post-9/11 days,
prompted Lisa to reach out to the af-
fected communities offering a safe
place and a safe space for frightened
neighbors as well as visiting victims’
families.
When Hurricanes Irma and Maria
worsened Puerto Rico’s already deli-
cate situation, Lisa refocused her advo-
cacy efforts on achieving a just recov-
ery for her islands. Lisa is currently
vice president of Diaspora en
Resistencia, an international coalition
of human rights organizations working
for a better future for Puerto Rico. She
also sits on the steering committee for
Vamos4PR.
For that, Lisa Santoni Cromar, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING KAREN GREEN
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Karen Green.
Reverend Dr. Karen R. Green, a proud
Jamaican-born Caribbean American, is
a former U.N. Humanitarian Religious
Ambassador At Large. She is a tireless
community advocate and social justice
crusader fighting to enhance the rights
of women, defend religious freedoms,
and secure the civil liberties of immi-
grants.
As a resident of Florida for over 20
years, Dr. Green has leveraged her tal-
ents as a respected political strategist,
campaign manager, and expert medi-
ator. She has served as the Democratic
Party’s former Caribbean Coalition Di-
rector for the State of Florida and its
territories. Her vast political and voter
advocacy record includes service as
field officer for President Barack
Obama’s Presidential election cam-
paign, Coalition Director for Hillary
Clinton’s Presidential primary and
general election campaigns, and polit-
ical advance to U.S. territories.
Dr. Green has led on issues of uni-
versal healthcare, a woman’s right to
choose, and immigration reform with a
pathway to citizenship under DAPA
and DACA as well. Dr. Green is also
noted to have been instrumental on the
front lines of the fight to secure in-
state tuition for undocumented stu-
dents living in Florida.
Dr. Green currently serves as the
CEO of the Liberty and Justice for All
Community Foundation and is the pri-
mary partner at Blue Fields Consult-
ants International.
Passion for service and a strong sense
of dedication to critical social issues is
clearly a key motivating force for Dr.
Green.
She merits these values to her Chris-
tian beliefs and cultural experiences as
a Jamaican-born immigrant.
She quotes Marcus Mosiah Garvey
himself, a Jamaican native and noted
civil rights leader, with: ‘‘A people
without the knowledge of their past
history, culture, and origin is like a
tree without roots.’’
And for that, Ms. Karen Green, we
honor you.
b 2030
RECOGNIZING KIM PORTEOUS
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Kim Porteous.
Kim Porteous is one of many activ-
ists ignited by the modern women’s
movement at the March on Wash-
ington, D.C., on January 24, 2017.
She is a community organizer who is
supported by a community of women.
Although she has been involved in ad-
vocacy throughout her life, she knew,
as a former survivor of rape, workplace
sexual assaults, and domestic abuse,
that she needed to make it her life’s
work to stand for women, sexual as-
sault victims, the disabled, the LGBTQ
community, immigrants, Dreamers,
against climate change, for religious
minorities, and to promote healthcare.
She is committed to amplifying the
voices of marginalized communities
through intersectional feminism and
uniting communities regardless of
their privilege.
The 2016 election led Kim to amplify
her message of equality beyond her cir-
cle of friends and get out in the com-
munity to engage.
She has had the privilege of sup-
porting organizations and community
partners, including the National Orga-
nization for Women, Organize Florida,
Planned Parenthood, For Our Future,
ADAPT, Rubio Tuesdays, Hope House,
Moms Demand Action, March for
Women, and Fight for $15 an Hour.
Kim is currently the vice president of
the Greater Orlando chapter of the Na-
tional Organization for Women and is
focused on sustained action to achieve
the ratification of the Equal Rights
Amendment.
And for that, Ms. Kim Porteous, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING RASHA MUBARAK
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Rasha Mubarak.
Rasha Mubarak is a Palestinian
American Muslim community activist
and leader who was recently named
Ten People Making Orlando a Better
Place to Be by the Orlando Weekly.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, and
raised in the heart of central Florida,
she is a current facilitator for the
Trust Orlando Coalition, helping make
history by passing the first TRUST
Act, not only in Florida but in the
Southeastern region of the United
States.
Rasha also serves as a vice president
for the Muslim Women’s Organization.
She is the president of the Young
Democrats of Orange County, a media
political strategist, is the president of
Orlando’s Palestine Children’s Relief
Fund.
While working in the Arab American
community, she helped launch
impactful programs such as Welcoming
Immigrants Now Group and its domes-
tic violence program.
A sought-after speaker about topics
including Palestinian rights,
Islamophobia, and women’s representa-
tion in Islam, Rasha has been a grass-
roots organizer and speaker for state-
wide demonstrations and campaigns for
interfaith work, Palestinian rights,
and #NoMuslimBanEver, immigrant
rights, and Black and Brown libera-
tion.
Rasha leads educational panel discus-
sions dispelling stereotypes about Mus-
lim women.
In 2015, she cofounded Floridians Re-
sponding to Refugees, spearheading ef-
forts to welcome and transition refu-
gees.
She was previously a mental health
counseling volunteer with the Pal-
estine Medical Relief Society in
Ramallah, aiding women and children
suffering from PTSD.
And for that, Ms. Rasha Mubarak, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING NICOLETTE FARIELLO SPRINGER
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Nicolette Fariello Springer.
Nicolette is the sort of woman who
does not fit conveniently into a mold.
She is a criminologist, college educa-
tor, and a doting mother to her two
daughters, Emmerson and Avery.
With a master’s degree in criminal
justice from the University of Central
Florida, Nicolette specializes in mental
health and substance abuse. She was
the assistant director of the Criminal
Justice Mental Health Substance
Abuse Technical Assistance Center,
where she focused on program evalua-
tion and policy analysis across the
State of Florida.
Nicolette’s research areas include
mental health court, drug court, and
corrections. It is her work in criminal
justice that informs her work as a com-
munity activist, championing issues
around adverse childhood experiences,
social justice, and access to education
and healthcare.
Nicolette serves as the champion
leader for central and north Florida for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.039 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2637
March 11, 2019
the United Nations Foundation
Shot@Life Campaign, which focuses on
advocating for access to vaccines in the
developing world.
On the local front, she co-leads a Girl
Scout troop of 27 girls and gives them
the opportunity to see the best in
themselves.
Nicolette’s activism led her to run
for office during the historic Pink
Wave of 2018. She parlayed her own
campaign experience into a full-time
position on a Democratic gubernatorial
campaign and continues to advocate
for progressive values.
She is currently one of the co-chairs
of the Juvenile Justice Committee for
the Central Florida League of Women
Voters and serves on the Victory Coun-
cil for Ruth’s List Florida. She is the
legislative analyst for the League of
Women Voters of Florida, empowering
voters and helping improve the lives of
all Floridians.
For that, Nicolette Fariello Springer,
we honor you.
RECOGNIZING IZA MONTALVO
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Iza Montalvo.
Iza Montalvo lives in Orlando with
her husband and two sons. She is an
award-winning journalist, former news
executive, radio anchor, television pro-
ducer, and congressional staffer recog-
nized by the United States Congress for
her contributions to the Hispanic com-
munity. In 2015, Vision magazine
named her as one of central Florida’s
most influential Hispanics.
Under her leadership as the former
editor-in-chief of La Prensa, the oldest
running publication in central Florida
and also founded by a relative of mine,
readership almost doubled in 1 year
alone.
As a reporter for the largest Spanish-
language media outlet in the country,
some of her stories gained national at-
tention during her almost 20-year jour-
nalism career.
While working as a reporter, she cov-
ered news events like the protests at
the United Nations against the U.S.
Navy military practices in the island of
Vieques, protests in Times Square
against the war in Iraq, the aftermath
of 9/11, the World Economic Forum, and
the New York blackout.
She has had the opportunity to inter-
view high-profile politicians and celeb-
rities of worldwide recognition as well
as holding an exclusive interview with
the Federal agent who stopped the 20th
hijacker from catching a flight during
the terrorist attacks on 9/11.
Her reporting with the Puerto Rican
diaspora, neglected communities of
color, Latinx and migrant communities
earned her recognitions and awards
from the prestigious National Associa-
tion of Hispanic Publications.
She served as the press secretary of
two U.S. Representatives before taking
her vast experience into a new business
venture. She currently is the founder
and president of the Olan Group, a pur-
pose-led communications, research,
and consultancy firm in Orlando.
As an independent journalist and
media strategist, she is focused on rais-
ing awareness about underreported
issues affecting the world, like envi-
ronmental justice and women’s rights,
in Spanish language and media outlets
covering the Latinx experience in the
U.S.
She also served as our press secretary
from 2017 to 2018 and did an absolutely
fantastic job.
And for that, Ms. Iza Montalvo, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING DR. CATHERINE ‘‘ELIZABETH’’
MCCARTHY
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Dr. Catherine ‘‘Elizabeth’’
McCarthy.
Dr. Elizabeth McCarthy currently
serves as the legislative director for
the Florida LGBT Democratic Caucus
and as federal chair of the Democratic
Women’s Club of Florida.
Born in Richmond, Virginia, she
moved to Florida in 1981. After attend-
ing high school in Pasco County, she
attended the University of Florida and
Florida State University on basketball
scholarships and graduated from Flor-
ida State in 1992 with a degree in crimi-
nology.
She then went back to school to be-
come a nurse. After spending 25 years
working as a cardio operating room
registered nurse for the Florida Heart
Group, she decided to attend medical
school at the University of Central
Florida and soon became a cardiolo-
gist.
Elizabeth was working at Orlando
Regional Medical Center the night of
the horrific Pulse nightclub shooting
in Orlando, Florida. As a doctor, her
work was vital in saving the lives of
many victims and members of our com-
munity. She was able to remove 77 bul-
lets out of 32 victims.
As a member of the LGBT commu-
nity and an LGBT activist, she now
serves on the One Pulse Foundation
Memorial Task Force, established to
create a sanctuary of hope and to grant
care for the families of victims and
survivors.
And for that, Dr. Elizabeth McCar-
thy, we honor you.
RECOGNIZING ANN MARIE SIEFKER
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Ann Marie Siefker.
Ann Marie Siefker was born on May
8, 1957. She attended Cardinal Gibbons
High School and graduated from Flor-
ida Atlantic University with a degree
in education.
Ann was a special education teacher
at West Orange High School, a long-
time member of the Classroom Teach-
ers Association, and taught children
for over 30 years.
Ann joined God on November 18, 2018,
and we are recognizing her post-
humously. She is survived by her
mother, Mary; her brothers, Joseph
and James; and her sister, Joan.
Ms. Ann Marie Siefker, for that, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING CHRISTINA WHITFIELD ATKINSON
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Christina Whitfield Atkinson.
Christina Whitfield Atkinson resides
with her husband, Jeffrey; their four
dogs; and is supported by her son,
Thomas; two stepdaughters, Mariah
and Amber; and her four grandchildren.
She has long believed women are the
backbone to any successful, prosperous
society. She has earned both a bach-
elor’s and master’s degree in business
administration and has worked for the
past 20 years in multiple professional
capacities, including owning a dental
supply company; working in risk man-
agement, internet security, insurance
claims, as an adjunct university pro-
fessor; and has dedicated hundreds of
hours to various charities.
She believes in promoting a philos-
ophy of integrity and honor through
giving back to those who have given
her so much. She believes there is no
greater honor than participating in and
promoting philanthropic activities.
In January 2018, after leaving her
role in corporate America, she was ap-
pointed as the VA representative for
Soldiers’ Angels. As the wife of an Air
Force veteran, sister to a Navy vet-
eran, and mother-in-law to an Active-
Duty Army soldier, Christina was
thrilled to volunteer for one of the
highest ranked 501(c)3 organizations,
which is dedicated to supporting our
military veterans.
Christina oversees a diverse group of
volunteers in the Orlando area who
visit veterans who are patients at the
VA Hospital at Lake Nona; help with
veteran support events, including dis-
tributing gifts and blankets from the
community; and oversee the monthly
mobile food distribution, which pro-
vides 200 low-income veterans 50
pounds of food each month.
If she is not at the VA supporting our
veterans, she is reaching deep into the
community to find other groups and
business and community leaders to
help our military veterans.
Her love of the military is her pri-
mary focus in all she does and is per-
manently ingrained in her.
And for that, Ms. Christina Whitfield
Atkinson, we honor you.
RECOGNIZING CHLOE C. BATTLE
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Women’s History Month, I want to rec-
ognize Chloe C. Battle.
Chloe Battle works in Orlando, Flor-
ida, as the executive director for the
local food pantry called Servant’s
Heart Ministry. The faith-based organi-
zation feeds children, seniors, and
other vulnerable individuals through
community partnerships by providing
basic needs, empowering people to grow
and thrive in their own neighborhoods,
and offering opportunities for people to
serve.
Ms. Battle’s mission is to feed the
hungry, and she also advocates for
building relationships, which she says
is the most important part of serving
and is the cornerstone for community
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.041 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2638 March 11, 2019
health. When you get to know a family
at the interpersonal level, their needs
become more apparent and easier to
address, and resources provided become
more meaningful to them.
Before entering the nonprofit sector,
Ms. Battle acquired her bachelor of
science in psychology from Indiana
University, working out of a pres-
tigious child development lab. She de-
veloped a keen interest in health psy-
chology and social work and, from
there, maintained a personal commit-
ment to caregiving, family, advocacy,
and community casework.
Ms. Battle cites that her strength
comes from God and personal experi-
ence, and her growth as a leader and
community partner drives her forward
to show others how everyone can do
something and that education and nur-
turing is the key to the success of all
families.
And for that, Ms. Chloe C. Battle, we
honor you.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON ETHICS FOR THE
116TH CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ETHICS
Washington, DC, March 7, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to clause 2 of
Rule XI, I submit to the House the Rules of
the Committee on Ethics for the 116th Con-
gress for publication in the Congressional
Record.
Sincerely,
THEODORE E. DEUTCH,
Chairman.
Enclosure.
FOREWORD
The Committee on Ethics is unique in the
House of Representatives. Consistent with
the duty to carry out its advisory and en-
forcement responsibilities in an impartial
manner, the Committee is the only standing
committee of the House of Representatives
the membership of which is divided evenly
by party. These rules are intended to provide
a fair procedural framework for the conduct
of the Committee’s activities and to help en-
sure that the Committee serves well the peo-
ple of the United States, the House of Rep-
resentatives, and the Members, officers, and
employees of the House of Representatives.
PART I—GENERAL COMMITTEE RULES
RULE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) So far as applicable, these rules and the
Rules of the House of Representatives shall
be the rules of the Committee and any sub-
committee. The Committee adopts these
rules under the authority of clause 2(a)(1) of
Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives, 116th Congress.
(b) The rules of the Committee may be
modified, amended, or repealed by a vote of
a majority of the Committee.
(c) When the interests of justice so require,
the Committee, by a majority vote of its
members, may adopt any special procedures,
not inconsistent with these rules, deemed
necessary to resolve a particular matter be-
fore it. Copies of such special procedures
shall be furnished to all parties in the mat-
ter.
(d) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber shall have access to such information
that they request as necessary to conduct
Committee business.
RULE 2. DEFINITIONS
(a) ‘‘Committee’’ means the Committee on
Ethics.
(b) ‘‘Complaint’’ means a written allega-
tion of improper conduct against a Member,
officer, or employee of the House of Rep-
resentatives filed with the Committee with
the intent to initiate an inquiry.
(c) ‘‘Inquiry’’ means an investigation by an
investigative subcommittee into allegations
against a Member, officer, or employee of
the House of Representatives.
(d) ‘‘Investigate,’’ ‘‘Investigating,’’ and/or
‘‘Investigation’’ mean review of the conduct
of a Member, officer, or employee of the
House of Representatives that is conducted
or authorized by the Committee, an inves-
tigative subcommittee, or the Chair and
Ranking Minority Member of the Com-
mittee.
(e) ‘‘Board’’ means the Board of the Office
of Congressional Ethics.
(f) ‘‘Referral’’ means a report sent to the
Committee from the Board pursuant to
House Rules and all applicable House Resolu-
tions regarding the conduct of a House Mem-
ber, officer, or employee, including any ac-
companying findings or other supporting
documentation.
(g) ‘‘Investigative Subcommittee’’ means a
subcommittee designated pursuant to Rule
19(a) to conduct an inquiry to determine if a
Statement of Alleged Violation should be
issued.
(h) ‘‘Statement of Alleged Violation’’
means a formal charging document filed by
an investigative subcommittee with the
Committee containing specific allegations
against a Member, officer, or employee of
the House of Representatives of a violation
of the Code of Official Conduct, or of a law,
rule, regulation, or other standard of con-
duct applicable to the performance of official
duties or the discharge of official respon-
sibilities.
(i) ‘‘Adjudicatory Subcommittee’’ means a
subcommittee designated pursuant to Rule
23(a) that holds an adjudicatory hearing and
determines whether the counts in a State-
ment of Alleged Violation are proved by
clear and convincing evidence.
(j) ‘‘Sanction Hearing’’ means a Committee
hearing to determine what sanction, if any,
to adopt or to recommend to the House of
Representatives.
(k) ‘‘Respondent’’ means a Member, officer,
or employee of the House of Representatives
who is the subject of an investigation.
(1) ‘‘Office of Advice and Education’’ refers
to the Office established by section 803(i) of
the Ethics Reform Act of 1989. The Office
handles inquiries; prepares written opinions
in response to specific requests; develops
general guidance; and organizes seminars,
workshops, and briefings for the benefit of
the House of Representatives.
(m) ‘‘Member’’ means a Representative in,
or a Delegate to, or the Resident Commis-
sioner to, the U.S. House of Representatives.
RULE 3. ADVISORY OPINIONS AND WAIVERS
(a) The Office of Advice and Education
shall handle inquiries; prepare written opin-
ions providing specific advice, including re-
views of requests for privately-sponsored
travel pursuant to the Committee’s Travel
Guidelines and Regulations; develop general
guidance; and organize seminars, workshops,
and briefings for the benefit of the House of
Representatives.
(b) Any Member, officer, or employee of
the House of Representatives may request a
written opinion with respect to the propriety
of any current or proposed conduct of such
Member, officer, or employee.
(c) The Office of Advice and Education may
provide information and guidance regarding
laws, rules, regulations, and other standards
of conduct applicable to Members, officers,
and employees in the performance of their
duties or the discharge of their responsibil-
ities.
(d) In general, the Committee shall provide
a written opinion to an individual only in re-
sponse to a written request, and the written
opinion shall address the conduct only of the
inquiring individual, or of persons for whom
the inquiring individual is responsible as em-
ploying authority.
(e) A written request for an opinion shall
be addressed to the Chair of the Committee
and shall include a complete and accurate
statement of the relevant facts. A request
shall be signed by the requester or the re-
quester’s authorized representative or em-
ploying authority. A representative shall
disclose to the Committee the identity of the
principal on whose behalf advice is being
sought.
(f) Requests for privately-sponsored travel
shall be treated like any other request for a
written opinion for purposes of paragraphs
(g) through (1).
(1) The Committee’s Travel Guidelines and
Regulations shall govern the request submis-
sion and Committee approval process for pri-
vately-sponsored travel consistent with
House Rules.
(2) A request for privately-sponsored travel
of a Member, officer, or employee shall in-
clude a completed and signed Traveler Form
that attaches the Private Sponsor Certifi-
cation Form and includes all information re-
quired by the Committee’s Travel Guidelines
and Regulations. A private sponsor offering
officially-connected travel to a Member, offi-
cer, or employee must complete and sign a
Private Sponsor Certification Form, and pro-
vide a copy of that form to the invitee(s).
(3) Any individual who knowingly and will-
fully falsifies, or who knowingly and will-
fully fails to file, any form required by the
Committee’s Travel Guidelines and Regula-
tions may be subject to civil penalties and
criminal sanctions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(g) The Office of Advice and Education
shall prepare for the Committee a response
to each written request for an opinion from
a Member, officer, or employee. Each re-
sponse shall discuss all applicable laws,
rules, regulations, or other standards.
(h) Where a request is unclear or incom-
plete, the Office of Advice and Education
may seek additional information from the
requester.
(i) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber are authorized to take action on behalf
of the Committee on any proposed written
opinion that they determine does not require
consideration by the Committee. If the Chair
or Ranking Minority Member requests a
written opinion, or seeks a waiver, exten-
sion, or approval pursuant to Rules 3(m),
4(c), 4(e), or 4(h), the next ranking member of
the requester’s party is authorized to act in
lieu of the requester.
(j) The Committee shall keep confidential
any request for advice from a Member, offi-
cer, or employee, as well as any response
thereto. Upon request of any Member, offi-
cer, or employee who has submitted a writ-
ten request for an opinion or submitted a re-
quest for privately-sponsored travel, the
Committee may release to the requesting in-
dividual a copy of their own written request
for advice or submitted travel forms, any
subsequent written communications between
such individual and Committee staff regard-
ing the request, and any Committee advisory
opinion or travel letter issued to that indi-
vidual in response. The Committee shall not
release any internal Committee staff work
product, communications, or notes in re-
sponse to such a request, except as author-
ized by the Committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11MR7.043 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2639
March 11, 2019
(k) The Committee may take no adverse
action in regard to any conduct that has
been undertaken in reliance on a written
opinion if the conduct conforms to the spe-
cific facts addressed in the opinion.
(1) Information provided to the Committee
by a Member, officer, or employee seeking
advice regarding prospective conduct may
not be used as the basis for initiating an in-
vestigation under clause 3(a)(2) or clause 3(b)
of Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives, if such Member, officer, or em-
ployee acts in good faith in accordance with
the written advice of the Committee.
(m) A written request for a waiver of
clause 5 of House Rule XXV (the House gift
rule), or for any other waiver or approval,
shall be treated in all respects like any other
request for a written opinion.
(n) A written request for a waiver of clause
5 of House Rule XXV (the House gift rule)
shall specify the nature of the waiver being
sought and the specific circumstances justi-
fying the waiver.
(o) An employee seeking a waiver of time
limits applicable to travel paid for by a pri-
vate source shall include with the request
evidence that the employing authority is
aware of the request. In any other instance
where proposed employee conduct may re-
flect on the performance of official duties,
the Committee may require that the re-
quester submit evidence that the employing
authority knows of the conduct.
RULE 4. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
(a) In matters relating to Title I of the
Ethics in Government Act of 1978, the Com-
mittee shall coordinate with the Clerk of the
House of Representatives, Legislative Re-
source Center, to assure that appropriate in-
dividuals are notified of their obligation to
file reports required to be filed under Title I
of the Ethics in Government Act and that
such individuals are provided in a timely
fashion with filing instructions and forms
developed by the Committee.
(b) The Committee shall coordinate with
the Legislative Resource Center to assure
that information that the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act requires to be placed on the public
record is made public.
(c) Any reports required to be filed under
Title I of the Ethics in Government Act filed
by Members of the Board of the Office of
Congressional Ethics that are forwarded to
the Committee by the Clerk shall not be sub-
ject to paragraphs (d) through (q) of this
Rule. The Office of Congressional Ethics re-
tains jurisdiction over review of the timeli-
ness and completeness of filings by Members
of the Board as the Board’s supervising eth-
ics office.
(d) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber are authorized to grant on behalf of the
Committee requests for reasonable exten-
sions of time for the filing of Financial Dis-
closure Statements. Any such request must
be received by the Committee no later than
the date on which the Statement in question
is due. A request received after such date
may be granted by the Committee only in
extraordinary circumstances. Such exten-
sions for one individual in a calendar year
shall not exceed a total of 90 days per State-
ment, including any amendment required by
the Committee in accordance with clause
(m). No extension shall be granted author-
izing a nonincumbent candidate to file a
statement later than 30 days prior to a pri-
mary or general election in which the can-
didate is participating.
(e) An individual who takes legally suffi-
cient action to withdraw as a candidate be-
fore the date on which that individual’s Fi-
nancial Disclosure Statement is due under
the Ethics in Government Act shall not be
required to file a Statement. An individual
shall not be excused from filing a Financial
Disclosure Statement when withdrawal as a
candidate occurs after the date on which
such Statement was due.
(f) Any individual who files a report re-
quired to be filed under Title I of the Ethics
in Government Act more than 30 days after
the later of—
(1) the date such report is required to be
filed, or
(2) if a filing extension is granted to such
individual, the last day of the filing exten-
sion period, is required by such Act to pay a
late filing fee of $200. The Chair and Ranking
Minority Member are authorized to approve
requests that the fee be waived based on ex-
traordinary circumstances.
(g) Any late report that is submitted with-
out a required filing fee shall be deemed pro-
cedurally deficient and not properly filed.
(h) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber are authorized to approve requests for
waivers of the aggregation and reporting of
gifts as provided by section 102(a)(2)(C) of the
Ethics in Government Act. If such a request
is approved, both the incoming request and
the Committee response shall be forwarded
to the Legislative Resource Center for place-
ment on the public record.
(i) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber are authorized to approve blind trusts as
qualifying under section 102(f)(3) of the Eth-
ics in Government Act. The correspondence
relating to formal approval of a blind trust,
the trust document, the list of assets trans-
ferred to the trust, and any other documents
required by law to be made public, shall be
forwarded to the Legislative Resource Center
for such purpose.
(j) The Committee shall designate staff
who shall review reports required to be filed
under Title I of the Ethics in Government
Act and, based upon information contained
therein, indicate in a form and manner pre-
scribed by the Committee whether the State-
ment appears substantially accurate and
complete and the filer appears to be in com-
pliance with applicable laws and rules.
(k) Each report required to be filed under
Title I of the Ethics in Government Act shall
be reviewed within 60 days after the date of
filing.
(1) If the reviewing staff believes that addi-
tional infoimation is required because (1) the
report required to be filed under Title I of
the Ethics in Government Act appears not
substantially accurate or complete, or (2) the
filer may not be in compliance with applica-
ble laws or rules, then the reporting indi-
vidual shall be notified in writing of the ad-
ditional information believed to be required,
or of the law or rule with which the report-
ing individual does not appear to be in com-
pliance. Such notice shall also state the time
within which a response is to be submitted.
Any such notice shall remain confidential.
(m) Within the time specified, including
any extension granted in accordance with
clause (d), a reporting individual who con-
curs with the Committee’s notification that
the report required to be filed under Title I
of the Ethics in Government Act is not com-
plete, or that other action is required, shall
submit the necessary information or take
appropriate action. Any amendment may be
in the form of a revised report required to be
filed under Title I of the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act or an explanatory letter addressed
to the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(n) Any amendment shall be placed on the
public record in the same manner as other
reports required to be filed under Title I of
the Ethics in Government Act. The indi-
vidual designated by the Committee to re-
view the original report required to be filed
under Title I of the Ethics in Government
Act shall review any amendment thereto.
(o) Within the time specified, including
any extension granted in accordance with
clause (d), a reporting individual who does
not agree with the Committee that the re-
port required to be filed under Title I of the
Ethics in Government Act is deficient or
that other action is required, shall be pro-
vided an opportunity to respond orally or in
writing. If the explanation is accepted, a
copy of the response, if written, or a note
summarizing an oral response, shall be re-
tained in Committee files with the original
report.
(p) The Committee shall be the final arbi-
ter of whether any report required to be filed
under Title I of the Ethics in Government
Act requires clarification or amendment.
(q) If the Committee determines, by vote of
a majority of its members, that there is rea-
son to believe that an individual has will-
fully failed to file a report required to be
filed under Title I of the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act or has willfully falsified or will-
fully failed to file information required to be
reported, then the Committee shall refer the
name of the individual, together with the
evidence supporting its finding, to the Attor-
ney General pursuant to section 104(b) of the
Ethics in Government Act. Such referral
shall not preclude the Committee from initi-
ating such other action as may be authorized
by other provisions of law or the Rules of the
House of Representatives.
RULE 5. MEETINGS
(a) The regular meeting day of the Com-
mittee shall be the second Tuesday of each
month, except when the House of Represent-
atives is not meeting on that day. When the
Committee Chair determines that there is
sufficient reason, meetings may be called on
additional days. A regularly scheduled meet-
ing need not be held when the Chair deter-
mines there is no business to be considered.
(b) The Chair shall establish the agenda for
meetings of the Committee, and the Ranking
Minority Member may place additional
items on the agenda.
(c) All meetings of the Committee or any
subcommittee shall occur in executive ses-
sion unless the Committee or subcommittee,
by an affirmative vote of a majority of its
members, opens the meeting to the public.
(d) Any hearing held by an adjudicatory
subcommittee, or any sanction hearing held
by the Committee, shall be open to the pub-
lic unless the Committee or subcommittee,
by an affirmative vote of a majority of its
members, closes the hearing to the public.
(e) A subcommittee shall meet at the dis-
cretion of its Chair.
(f) Insofar as practicable, notice for any
Committee or subcommittee meeting shall
be provided at least seven days in advance of
the meeting. The Chair of the Committee or
subcommittee may waive such time period
for good cause.
RULE 6. COMMITTEE STAFF
(a) The staff is to be assembled and re-
tained as a professional, nonpartisan staff.
(b) Each member of the staff shall be pro-
fessional and demonstrably qualified for the
position for which the individual is hired.
(c) The staff as a whole and each individual
member of the staff shall perform all official
duties in a nonpartisan manner.
(d) No member of the staff shall engage in
any partisan political activity directly af-
fecting any congressional or presidential
election.
(e) No member of the staff or outside coun-
sel may accept public speaking engagements
or write for publication on any subject that
is in any way related to the employment or
duties with the Committee of such individual
without specific prior approval from the
Chair and Ranking Minority Member.
(f) All staff members shall be appointed by
an affirmative vote of a majority of the
members of the Committee. Such vote shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.026 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2640 March 11, 2019
occur at the first meeting of the membership
of the Committee during each Congress and
as necessary during the Congress.
(g) Subject to the approval of the Com-
mittee on House Administration, the Com-
mittee may retain counsel not employed by
the House of Representatives whenever the
Committee determines, by an affirmative
vote of a majority of the members of the
Committee, that the retention of outside
counsel is necessary and appropriate.
(h) If the Committee determines that it is
necessary to retain staff members for the
purpose of a particular investigation or
other proceeding, then such staff shall be re-
tained only for the duration of that par-
ticular investigation or proceeding.
(i) Outside counsel may be dismissed prior
to the end of a contract between the Com-
mittee and such counsel only by a majority
vote of the members of the Committee.
(j) In addition to any other staff provided
for by law, rule, or other authority, with re-
spect to the Committee, the Chair and Rank-
ing Minority Member each may appoint one
individual as a shared staff member from the
respective personal staff of the Chair or
Ranking Minority Member to perform serv-
ice for the Committee. Such shared staff
may assist the Chair or Ranking Minority
Member on any subcommittee on which the
Chair or Ranking Minority Member serves.
Only paragraphs (c) and (e) of this Rule and
Rule 7(b) shall apply to shared staff
RULE 7. CONFIDENTIALITY
(a) Before any Member or employee of the
Committee, including members of an inves-
tigative subcommittee selected under clause
5(a)(4) of Rule X of the House of Representa-
tives and shared staff designated pursuant to
Committee Rule 6(j), may have access to in-
formation that is confidential under the
rules of the Committee, the following oath
(or affiimation) shall be executed in writing:
‘‘I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
not disclose, to any person or entity outside
the Committee on Ethics, any information
received in the course of my service with the
Committee, except as authorized by the
Committee or in accordance with its rules.’’
Copies of the executed oath shall be pro-
vided to the Clerk of the House as part of the
records of the House. Breaches of confiden-
tiality shall be investigated by the Com-
mittee and appropriate action shall be
taken.
(b) No member of the staff or outside coun-
sel may make public, unless approved by an
affirmative vote of a majority of the mem-
bers of the Committee, any information, doc-
ument, or other material that is confiden-
tial, derived from executive session, or clas-
sified and that is obtained during the course
of employment with the Committee.
(c) Committee members and staff shall not
disclose any evidence or information relat-
ing to any investigation or proceeding of the
Committee or a subcommittee to any person
or organization outside the Committee, un-
less authorized by the Committee.
(d) This rule shall not prohibit the Chair or
Ranking Minority Member from disclosing
to the Board of the Office of Congressional
Ethics the existence of a Committee inves-
tigation, the name of the Member, officer, or
employee of the House who is the subject of
that investigation, and a brief statement of
the scope of that investigation in a written
request for referral pursuant to Rule 17A(k).
Such disclosures will only be made subject to
written confirmation from the Board that
the information provided by the Chair or
Ranking Minority Member will be kept con-
fidential by the Board.
(e) A Statement of Alleged Violation and
any written response thereto shall be made
public at the first meeting or hearing on the
matter that is open to the public after the
respondent has been given full opportunity
to respond pursuant to Rule 22. Any other
materials in the possession of the Committee
regarding such statement may be made pub-
lic as authorized by the Committee to the
extent consistent with the Rules of the
House of Representatives. If no public hear-
ing is held on the matter, the Statement of
Alleged Violation and any written response
thereto shall be included in the Committee’s
final report on the matter to the House of
Representatives.
(f) Unless otherwise determined by a vote
of the Committee, only the Chair or Ranking
Minority Member of the Committee, after
consultation with each other, may make
public statements regarding matters before
the Committee or any subcommittee.
(g) The Committee may establish proce-
dures necessary to prevent the unauthorized
disclosure of any testimony or other infor-
mation received by the Committee or its
staff.
RULE 8. SUBCOMMITTEES—GENERAL POLICY AND
STRUCTURE
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of
these Rules, the Chair and Ranking Minority
Member of the Committee may consult with
an investigative subcommittee either on
their own initiative or on the initiative of
the subcommittee, shall have access to evi-
dence and information before a sub-
committee with whom they so consult, and
shall not thereby be precluded from serving
as full, voting members of any adjudicatory
subcommittee. Except for the Chair and
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
pursuant to this paragraph, evidence in the
possession of an investigative subcommittee
shall not be disclosed to other Committee
members except by a vote of the sub-
committee.
(b) The Committee may establish other
noninvestigative and nonadjudicatory sub-
committees and may assign to them such
functions as it may deem appropriate. The
membership of each subcommittee shall pro-
vide equal representation for the majority
and minority parties.
(c) The Chair may refer any bill, resolu-
tion, or other matter before the Committee
to an appropriate subcommittee for consid-
eration. Any such bill, resolution, or other
matter may be discharged from the sub-
committee to which it was referred by a ma-
jority vote of the Committee.
(d) Any member of the Committee may sit
with any noninvestigative or nonadjudica-
tory subcommittee, but only regular mem-
bers of such subcommittee may vote on any
matter before that subcommittee.
RULE 9. QUORUMS AND MEMBER
DISQUALIFICATION
(a) The quorum for the Committee or an
investigative subcommittee to take testi-
mony and to receive evidence shall be two
members, unless otherwise authorized by the
House of Representatives.
(b) The quorum for an adjudicatory sub-
committee to take testimony, receive evi-
dence, or conduct business shall consist of a
majority plus one of the members of the ad-
judicatory subcommittee.
(c) Except as stated in clauses (a) and (b) of
this rule, a quorum for the purpose of con-
ducting business consists of a majority of
the members of the Committee or sub-
committee.
(d) A member of the Committee shall be in-
eligible to participate in any Committee or
subcommittee proceeding in which such
Member is a respondent.
(e) A member of the Committee may seek
disqualification from participating in any in-
vestigation of the conduct of a Member, offi-
cer, or employee of the House of Representa-
tives upon the submission in writing and
under oath of an affidavit of disqualification
stating that the member cannot render an
impartial and unbiased decision. If the Com-
mittee approves and accepts such affidavit of
disqualification, the Chair shall so notify the
Speaker and ask the Speaker to designate a
Member of the House of Representatives
from the same political party as the dis-
qualified member of the Committee to act as
a member of the Committee in any Com-
mittee proceeding relating to such investiga-
tion.
RULE 10. VOTE REQUIREMENTS
(a) The following actions shall be taken
only upon an affirmative vote of a majority
of the members of the Committee or sub-
committee, as appropriate:
(1) Issuing a subpoena.
(2) Adopting a full Committee motion to
create an investigative subcommittee.
(3) Adopting or amending of a Statement of
Alleged Violation.
(4) Finding that a count in a Statement of
Alleged Violation has been proved by clear
and convincing evidence.
(5) Sending a letter of reproval.
(6) Adopting a recommendation to the
House of Representatives that a sanction be
imposed.
(7) Adopting a report relating to the con-
duct of a Member, officer, or employee.
(8) Issuing an advisory opinion of general
applicability establishing new policy.
(b) Except as stated in clause (a), action
may be taken by the Committee or any sub-
committee thereof by a simple majority, a
quorum being present.
(c) No motion made to take any of the ac-
tions enumerated in clause (a) of this Rule
may be entertained by the Chair unless a
quorum of the Committee is present when
such motion is made.
RULE 11. COMMITTEE RECORDS
(a) All communications and all pleadings
pursuant to these rules shall be filed with
the Committee at the Committee’s office or
such other place as designated by the Com-
mittee.
(b) All records of the Committee which
have been delivered to the Archivist of the
United States shall be made available to the
public in accordance with Rule VII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives.
RULE 12. BROADCASTS OF COMMITTEE AND
SUBCOMMITTEE PROCEEDINGS
(a) Television or radio coverage of a Com-
mittee or subcommittee hearing or meeting
shall be without commercial sponsorship.
(b) Not more than four television cameras,
operating from fixed positions, shall be per-
mitted in a hearing or meeting room. The
Committee may allocate the positions of
permitted television cameras among the tel-
evision media in consultation with the Exec-
utive Committee of the Radio and Television
Correspondents’ Galleries.
(c) Television cameras shall be placed so as
not to obstruct in any way the space between
any witness giving evidence or testimony
and any member of the Committee, or the
visibility of that witness and that member to
each other.
(d) Television cameras shall not be placed
in positions that unnecessarily obstruct the
coverage of the hearing or meeting by the
other media.
PART II—INVESTIGATIVE AUTHORITY
RULE 13. HOUSE RESOLUTION
Whenever the House of Representatives, by
resolution, authorizes or directs the Com-
mittee to undertake an inquiry or investiga-
tion, the provisions of the resolution, in con-
junction with these Rules, shall govern. To
the extent the provisions of the resolution
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.027 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2641
March 11, 2019
differ from these Rules, the resolution shall
control.
RULE 14. COMMITTEE AUTHORITY TO
INVESTIGATE—GENERAL POLICY
(a) Pursuant to clause 3(b) of Rule XI of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee may exercise its investiga-
tive authority when:
(1) information offered as a complaint, in
writing and under oath, by a Member of the
House of Representatives is transmitted di-
rectly to the Committee;
(2) information offered as a complaint, in
writing and under oath, by an individual not
a Member of the House is transmitted to the
Committee, provided that a Member of the
House certifies in writing that such Member
believes the information is submitted in
good faith and warrants the review and con-
sideration of the Committee;
(3) the Committee, on its own initiative,
undertakes an investigation;
(4) a Member, officer, or employee is in-
dicted or otherwise formally charged with
criminal conduct or is convicted of a felony
in a Federal, State, or local court;
(5) the House of Representatives, by resolu-
tion, authorizes or directs the Committee to
undertake an inquiry or investigation; or
(6) a referral from the Board is transmitted
to the Committee.
(b) The Committee also has investigatory
authority over:
(1) certain unauthorized disclosures of in-
telligence-related information, pursuant to
House Rule X, clauses 11(g)(4) and (g)(5);
(2) reports received from the Office of the
Inspector General pursuant to House Rule II,
clause 6(c)(5);
(3) determinations regarding appeals from
fines imposed by the Sergeant-at-Arms for
the use of electronic devices in contraven-
tion of applicable House rules or policies,
pursuant to House Rule II, clause 3(g); and
(4) information received from the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, pursuant to
the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995.
RULE 15. COMPLAINTS
(a) A complaint submitted to the Com-
mittee shall be in writing, dated, and prop-
erly verified (a document will be considered
properly verified where a notary executes it
with the language, ‘‘Signed and sworn to (or
affirmed) before me on (date) by (the name of
the person)’’) setting forth in simple, con-
cise, and direct statements—
(1) the name and legal address of the party
filing the complaint (hereinafter referred to
as the ‘‘complainant’’);
(2) the name and position or title of the re-
spondent(s);
(3) the nature of the alleged violation of
the Code of Official Conduct or of other law,
rule, regulation, or other standard of con-
duct applicable to the performance of duties
or discharge of responsibilities; and
(4) the facts alleged to give rise to the vio-
lation. The complaint shall not contain in-
nuendo, speculative assertions, or conclusory
statements.
(b) Any documents in the possession of the
complainant that relate to the allegations
may be submitted with the complaint.
(c) Information offered as a complaint by a
Member of the House of Representatives may
be transmitted directly to the Committee.
(d) Information offered as a complaint by
an individual not a Member of the House
may be transmitted to the Committee, pro-
vided that a Member of the House certifies in
writing that such Member believes the infor-
mation is submitted in good faith and war-
rants the review and consideration of the
Committee.
(e) A complaint must be accompanied by a
certification, which may be unsworn, that
the complainant has provided an exact copy
of the filed complaint and all attachments to
the respondent(s).
(f) The Committee may defer action on a
complaint against a Member, officer, or em-
ployee of the House of Representatives when
the complaint alleges conduct that the Com-
mittee has reason to believe is being re-
viewed by appropriate law enforcement or
regulatory authorities, or when the Com-
mittee determines that it is appropriate for
the conduct alleged in the complaint to be
reviewed initially by law enforcement or reg-
ulatory authorities.
(g) A complaint may not be amended with-
out leave of the Committee. Otherwise, any
new allegations of improper conduct must be
submitted in a new complaint that independ-
ently meets the procedural requirements of
the Rules of the House of Representatives
and the Committee’s Rules.
(h) The Committee shall not accept, and
shall return to the complainant, any com-
plaint submitted within the 60 days before a
Federal, State, or local election in which the
subject of the complaint is a candidate.
(i) The Committee shall not consider a
complaint, nor shall any investigation be un-
dertaken by the Committee, of any alleged
violation which occurred before the third
previous Congress unless the Committee de-
termines that the alleged violation is di-
rectly related to an alleged violation which
occurred in a more recent Congress.
RULE 16. DUTIES OF COMMITTEE CHAIR AND
RANKING MINORITY MEMBER
(a) Whenever information offered as a com-
plaint is submitted to the Committee, the
Chair and Ranking Minority Member shall
have 14 calendar days or 5 legislative days,
whichever occurs first, to determine whether
the information meets the requirements of
the Committee’s rules for what constitutes a
complaint.
(b) Whenever the Chair and Ranking Mi-
nority Member jointly determine that infor-
mation submitted to the Committee meets
the requirements of the Committee’s rules
for what constitutes a complaint, they shall
have 45 calendar days or 5 legislative days,
whichever is later, after the date that the
Chair and Ranking Minority Member deter-
mine that infoiniation filed meets the re-
quirements of the Committee’s rules for
what constitutes a complaint, unless the
Committee by an affirmative vote of a ma-
jority of its members votes otherwise, to—
(1) recommend to the Committee that it
dispose of the complaint, or any portion
thereof, in any manner that does not require
action by the House, which may include dis-
missal of the complaint or resolution of the
complaint by a letter to the Member, officer,
or employee of the House against whom the
complaint is made;
(2) establish an investigative sub-
committee; or
(3) request that the Committee extend the
applicable 45-calendar day period when they
determine more time is necessary in order to
make a recommendation under paragraph (1)
or (2) of Rule 16(b).
(c) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber may jointly gather additional informa-
tion concerning alleged conduct which is the
basis of a complaint or of information of-
fered as a complaint until they have estab-
lished an investigative subcommittee or the
Chair or Ranking Minority Member has
placed on the agenda the issue of whether to
establish an investigative subcommittee.
(d) If the Chair and Ranking Minority
Member jointly determine that information
submitted to the Committee meets the re-
quirements of the Committee rules for what
constitutes a complaint, and the complaint
is not disposed of within 45 calendar days or
5 legislative days, whichever is later, and no
additional 45-day extension is made, then
they shall establish an investigative sub-
committee and forward the complaint, or
any portion thereof; to that subcommittee
for its consideration. If at any time during
the time period either the Chair or Ranking
Minority Member places on the agenda the
issue of whether to establish an investigative
subcommittee, then an investigative sub-
committee may be established only by an af-
firmative vote of a majority of the members
of the Committee.
(e) Whenever the Chair and Ranking Mi-
nority Member jointly determine that infor-
mation submitted to the Committee does not
meet the requirements for what constitutes
a complaint set forth in the Committee
rules, they may (1) return the information to
the complainant with a statement that it
fails to meet the requirements for what con-
stitutes a complaint set forth in the Com-
mittee’s rules; or (2) recommend to the Com-
mittee that it authorize the establishment of
an investigative subcommittee.
RULE 17. PROCESSING OF COMPLAINTS
(a) If a complaint is in compliance with
House and Committee Rules, a copy of the
complaint and the Committee Rules shall be
forwarded to the respondent(s) within 5 days
with notice that the complaint conforms to
the applicable rules.
(b) A respondent may, within 30 days of the
Committee’s notification in clause (a), pro-
vide to the Committee any information rel-
evant to a complaint filed with the Com-
mittee. The respondent may submit a writ-
ten statement in response to the complaint.
Such a statement shall be signed by the re-
spondent. If the statement is prepared by
counsel for the respondent, the respondent
shall sign a representation that the respond-
ent has reviewed the response and agrees
with the factual assertions contained there-
in.
(c) The Committee staff may request infor-
mation from a respondent or obtain addi-
tional information relevant to the case from
other sources prior to the establishment of
an investigative subcommittee only when so
directed by the Chair and Ranking Minority
Member.
(d) The respondent(s) shall be notified in
writing regarding the Chair and Ranking Mi-
nority Member’s determination under Rule
16(e) or the Committee’s decision either to
dismiss the complaint or to create an inves-
tigative subcommittee.
RULE 17A. REFERRALS FROM THE BOARD OF THE
OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS
(a) The Committee has exclusive jurisdic-
tion over the interpretation, administration,
and enforcement of the Code of Official Con-
duct pursuant to clause 1(g)of House Rule X.
Receipt of referrals from the Board under
this rule does not limit the Committee’s dis-
cretion to address referrals in any way
through the appropriate procedures author-
ized by Committee Rules. The Committee
shall review the report and findings trans-
mitted by the Board without prejudice or
presumptions as to the merit of the allega-
tions.
(b)(1) Whenever the Committee receives ei-
ther (A) a referral containing a written re-
port and any findings and supporting docu-
mentation from the Board; or (B) a referral
from the Board pursuant to a request under
Rule 17A(k), the Chair shall have 45 calendar
days or 5 legislative days after the date the
referral is received, whichever is later, to
make public the report and findings of the
Board unless the Chair and Ranking Minor-
ity Member jointly decide, or the Committee
votes, to withhold such information for not
more than one additional 45-day period.
(2) At least one calendar day before the
Committee makes public any report and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.029 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2642 March 11, 2019
findings of the Board, the Chair shall notify
in writing the Board and the Member, offi-
cer, or employee who is the subject of the re-
ferral of the impending public release of
these documents. At the same time, the
Chair shall transmit a copy of any public
statement on the Committee’s disposition of
the matter and any accompanying Com-
mittee report to the individual who is the
subject of the referral.
(3) All public statements and reports and
findings of the Board that are required to be
made public under this Rule shall be posted
on the Committee’s website.
(c) If the OCE report and findings are with-
held for an additional 45-day period pursuant
to paragraph (b)(1), the Chair shall—
(1) make a public statement on the day of
such decision or vote that the matter re-
ferred from the Board has been extended; and
(2) make public the written report and
findings pursuant to paragraph (b) upon the
termination of such additional period.
(d) If the Board transmits a report with a
recommendation to dismiss or noting a mat-
ter as unresolved due to a tie vote, and the
matter is extended for an additional period
as provided in paragraph (b), the Committee
is not required to make a public statement
that the matter has been extended pursuant
to paragraph (b)(1).
(e) If the Committee votes to dismiss a
matter referred from the Board, the Com-
mittee is not required to make public the
written report and findings of the Board pur-
suant to paragraph (c) unless the Commit-
tee’s vote is inconsistent with the rec-
ommendation of the Board. A vote by the
Committee to dismiss a matter is not consid-
ered inconsistent with a report from the
Board that the matter is unresolved by the
Board due to a tie vote.
(f) Except as provided by paragraph (g):
(1) If the Committee establishes an inves-
tigative subcommittee respecting any mat-
ter referred by the Board, then the report
and findings of the Board shall not be made
public until the conclusion of the investiga-
tive subcommittee process. The Committee
shall issue a public statement noting the es-
tablishment of an investigative sub-
committee, which shall include the name of
the Member, officer, or employee who is the
subject of the inquiry, and shall set forth the
alleged violation.
(2) If any such investigative subcommittee
does not conclude its review within one year
after the Board’s referral, then the Com-
mittee shall make public the report of the
Board no later than one year after the refer-
ral. If the investigative subcommittee does
not conclude its review before the end of the
Congress in which the report of the Board is
made public, the Committee shall make pub-
lic any findings of the Board on the last day
of that Congress.
(g) If the vote of the Committee is a tie or
the Committee fails to act by the close of
any applicable period(s) under this rule, the
report and the findings of the Board shall be
made public by the Committee, along with a
public statement by the Chair explaining the
status of the matter.
(h)(1) If the Committee agrees to a request
from an appropriate law enforcement or reg-
ulatory authority to defer taking action on a
matter referred by the Board under para-
graph (b)—
(A) The Committee is not required to make
public the written report and findings of the
Board pursuant to paragraph (c), except that
if the recommendation of the Board is that
the matter requires further review, the Com-
mittee shall make public the written report
of the Board but not the findings; and
(B) The Committee shall make a public
statement that it is deferring taking action
on the matter at the request of such law en-
forcement or regulatory authority within
one day (excluding weekends and public holi-
days) of the day that the Committee agrees
to the request.
(2) If the Committee has not acted on the
matter within one year of the date the public
statement described in paragraph (h)(1)(B) is
released, the Committee shall make a public
statement that it continues to defer taking
action on the matter. The Committee shall
make a new statement upon the expiration
of each succeeding one-year period during
which the Committee has not acted on the
matter.
(i) The Committee shall not accept, and
shall return to the Board, any referral from
the Board within 60 days before a Federal,
State, or local election in which the subject
of the referral is a candidate.
(j) The Committee may postpone any re-
porting requirement under this rule that
falls within that 60–day period until after the
date of the election in which the subject of
the referral is a candidate. For purposes of
calculating any applicable period under this
Rule, any days within the 60–day period be-
fore such an election and the date of the
election shall not be counted.
(k)(1) At any time after the Committee re-
ceives written notification from the Board of
the Office of Congressional Ethics that the
Board is undertaking a review of alleged con-
duct of any Member, officer, or employee of
the House at a time when the Committee is
investigating, or has completed an investiga-
tion of the same matter, the Committee may
so notify the Board in writing and request
that the Board cease its review and refer the
matter to the Committee for its consider-
ation immediately. The Committee shall
also notify the Board in writing if the Com-
mittee has not reached a final resolution of
the matter or has not referred the matter to
the appropriate Federal or State authorities
by the end of any applicable time period
specified in Rule 17A (including any permis-
sible extension).
(2) The Committee may not request a sec-
ond referral of the matter from the Board if
the Committee has notified the Board that it
is unable to resolve the matter previously re-
quested pursuant to this section. The Board
may subsequently send a referral regarding a
matter previously requested and returned by
the Committee after the conclusion of the
Board’s review process.
RULE 18. COMMITTEE-INITIATED INQUIRY OR
INVESTIGATION
(a) Notwithstanding the absence of a filed
complaint, the Committee may consider any
information in its possession indicating that
a Member, officer, or employee may have
committed a violation of the Code of Official
Conduct or any law, rule, regulation, or
other standard of conduct applicable to the
conduct of such Member, officer, or em-
ployee in the performance of the duties or
the discharge of the responsibilities of such
individual. The Chair and Ranking Minority
Member may jointly gather additional infor-
mation concerning such an alleged violation
by a Member, officer, or employee unless and
until an investigative subcommittee has
been established. The Chair and Ranking Mi-
nority Member may also jointly take appro-
priate action consistent with Committee
Rules to resolve the matter.
(b) If the Committee votes to establish an
investigative subcommittee, the Committee
shall proceed in accordance with Rule 19.
(c) Any written request by a Member, offi-
cer, or employee of the House of Representa-
tives that the Committee conduct an inves-
tigation into such person’s own conduct
shall be considered in accordance with sub-
section (a) of this Rule.
(d) An investigation shall not be under-
taken regarding any alleged violation that
occurred before the third previous Congress
unless a majority of the Committee deter-
mines that the alleged violation is directly
related to an alleged violation that occurred
in a more recent Congress.
(e)(1) An inquiry shall be undertaken by an
investigative subcommittee with regard to
any felony conviction of a Member, officer,
or employee of the House of Representatives
in a Federal, State, or local court who has
been sentenced. Notwithstanding this provi-
sion, the Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber have the discretion to gather informa-
tion pursuant to subsection (a) of this Rule,
and the Committee has the discretion to ini-
tiate an inquiry upon an affirmative vote of
a majority of the members of the Com-
mittee, at any time prior to conviction or
sentencing.
(2) Not later than 30 days after a Member
of the House is indicted or otherwise for-
mally charged with criminal conduct in any
Federal, State, or local court, the Com-
mittee shall either initiate an inquiry upon
a majority vote of the members of the Com-
mittee or submit a report to the House de-
scribing its reasons for not initiating an in-
quiry and describing the actions, if any, that
the Committee has taken in response to the
allegations.
(3) In addition to any other evidence which
the Committee or investigative sub-
committee may consider, the Committee or
investigative subcommittee may take into
evidence any information related to the sub-
ject of an investigation contained in trial
transcripts and all exhibits admitted into
evidence at trial.
RULE 19. INVESTIGATIVE SUBCOMMITTEE
(a)(1) Upon the establishment of an inves-
tigative subcommittee, the Chair and Rank-
ing Minority Member of the Committee shall
designate four members (with equal rep-
resentation from the majority and minority
parties) to serve as an investigative sub-
committee to undertake an inquiry. Mem-
bers of the Committee and Members of the
House selected pursuant to clause 5(a)(4)(A)
of Rule X of the House of Representatives
are eligible for appointment to an investiga-
tive subcommittee, as determined by the
Chair and Ranking Minority Member of the
Committee. At the time of appointment, the
Chair shall designate one member of the sub-
committee to serve as the Chair and the
Ranking Minority Member shall designate
one member of the subcommittee to serve as
the ranking minority member of the inves-
tigative subcommittee. The Chair and Rank-
ing Minority Member of the Committee may
serve as members of an investigative sub-
committee, but may not serve as non-voting,
ex-officio members.
(2) A respondent shall be notified of the
membership of the investigative sub-
committee and shall have 10 days after such
notice is transmitted to object to the par-
ticipation of any subcommittee member.
Such objection shall be in writing and must
be on the grounds that the subcommittee
member cannot render an impartial and un-
biased decision. The members of the Com-
mittee shall engage in a collegial discussion
regarding such objection. The subcommittee
member against whom the objection is made
shall be the sole judge of any disqualifica-
tion and may choose to seek disqualification
from participating in the inquiry pursuant
to Rule 9(e).
(b) In an inquiry undertaken by an inves-
tigative subcommittee—
(1) All proceedings, including the taking of
testimony, shall be conducted in executive
session and all evidence or testimony pro-
duced pursuant to subpoena or otherwise
shall be deemed to have been taken or pro-
duced in executive session.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.031 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2643
March 11, 2019
(2) The investigative subcommittee,
through any of its members or the staff,
shall ask the respondent(s) and all witnesses
whether they intend to be represented by
counsel. If so, the respondent or witnesses or
their legal representatives shall provide
written designation of counsel. A respondent
or witness who is represented by counsel
shall not be questioned in the absence of
counsel unless an explicit waiver is obtained.
(3) The subcommittee shall provide the re-
spondent(s) an opportunity to present, orally
or in writing, a statement, which must be
under oath or affirmation, regarding the al-
legations and any other relevant questions
arising out of the inquiry.
(4) The staff may interview witnesses, ex-
amine documents and other evidence, and re-
quest that submitted statements be under
oath or affirmation and that documents be
certified as to their authenticity and accu-
racy.
(5) The subcommittee, by a majority vote
of its members, may require, by subpoena or
otherwise, the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of such books,
records, correspondence, memoranda, papers,
documents, and other items as it deems nec-
essary to the conduct of the inquiry. Unless
the Committee otherwise provides, the sub-
poena power shall rest in the Chair and
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
and a subpoena shall be issued upon the re-
quest of the investigative subcommittee.
(6) Required testimony shall be given
under oath or affirmation. The form of the
oath or affirmation shall be: ‘‘Do you sol-
emnly swear (or affirm) that the testimony
you will give before this subcommittee in
the matter now under consideration will be
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth (so help you God)?’’ The oath or af-
firmation shall be administered by the Chair
or any individual designated by the Chair to
administer oaths.
(c) During the inquiry, the procedure re-
specting the admissibility of evidence and
rulings shall be as follows:
(1) Any relevant evidence shall be admis-
sible unless the evidence is privileged under
the precedents of the House of Representa-
tives.
(2) The Chair of the subcommittee or other
presiding member at any investigative sub-
committee proceeding shall rule upon any
question of admissibility or relevance of evi-
dence, motion, procedure, or any other mat-
ter, and may direct any witness to answer
any question under penalty of contempt. A
witness, witness counsel, or a member of the
subcommittee may appeal any rulings to the
members present at that proceeding. A ma-
jority vote of the members present at such
proceeding on such appeal shall govern the
question of admissibility, and no appeal shall
lie to the Committee.
(3) Whenever a person is determined by a
majority vote to be in contempt of the sub-
committee, the matter may be referred to
the Committee to determine whether to refer
the matter to the House of Representatives
for consideration.
(4) Committee counsel may, subject to sub-
committee approval, enter into stipulations
with a respondent and/or the respondent’s
counsel as to facts that are not in dispute.
(d) Upon an affi !native vote of a majority
of the subcommittee members, and an af-
firmative vote of a majority of the full Com-
mittee, an investigative subcommittee may
expand the scope of its inquiry.
(e) Upon completion of the inquiry, the
staff shall draft for the investigative sub-
committee a report that shall contain a com-
prehensive summary of the information re-
ceived regarding the alleged violations.
(f) Upon completion of the inquiry, an in-
vestigative subcommittee, by a majority
vote of its members, may adopt a Statement
of Alleged Violation if it determines that
there is substantial reason to believe that a
violation of the Code of Official Conduct, or
of a law, rule, regulation, or other standard
of conduct applicable to the performance of
official duties or the discharge of official re-
sponsibilities by a Member, officer, or em-
ployee of the House of Representatives has
occurred. If more than one violation is al-
leged, such Statement shall be divided into
separate counts. Each count shall relate to a
separate violation, shall contain a plain and
concise statement of the alleged facts of
such violation, and shall include a reference
to the provision of the Code of Official Con-
duct or law, rule, regulation, or other appli-
cable standard of conduct governing the per-
formance of duties or discharge of respon-
sibilities alleged to have been violated. A
copy of such Statement shall be transmitted
to the respondent and the respondent’s coun-
sel.
(g) If the investigative subcommittee does
not adopt a Statement of Alleged Violation,
it shall transmit to the Committee a report
containing a summary of the information re-
ceived in the inquiry, its conclusions and
reasons therefore, and any appropriate rec-
ommendation.
(h) An investigative subcommittee may
transmit a single report regarding multiple
respondents, but shall adopt a separate
Statement of Alleged Violation for each re-
spondent where applicable.
RULE 20. AMENDMENTS TO STATEMENTS OF
ALLEGED VIOLATION
(a) An investigative subcommittee may,
upon an affirmative vote of a majority of its
members, amend its Statement of Alleged
Violation anytime before the Statement of
Alleged Violation is transmitted to the Com-
mittee; and
(b) If an investigative subcommittee
amends its Statement of Alleged Violation,
the respondent shall be notified in writing
and shall have 30 calendar days from the
date of that notification to file an answer to
the amended Statement of Alleged Viola-
tion.
RULE 21. COMMITTEE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
(a) Whenever an investigative sub-
committee does not adopt a Statement of Al-
leged Violation and transmits a report to
that effect to the Committee, the Committee
may by an affirmative vote of a majority of
its members transmit such report to the
House of Representatives;
(b) Whenever an investigative sub-
committee adopts a Statement of Alleged
Violation but recommends that no further
action be taken, it shall transmit a report to
the Committee regarding the Statement of
Alleged Violation; and
(c) Whenever an investigative sub-
committee adopts a Statement of Alleged
Violation, the respondent admits to the vio-
lations set forth in such Statement, the re-
spondent waives the right to an adjudicatory
hearing, and the respondent’s waiver is ap-
proved by the Committee—
(1) the subcommittee shall prepare a report
for transmittal to the Committee, a final
draft of which shall be provided to the re-
spondent not less than 15 calendar days be-
fore the subcommittee votes on whether to
adopt the report;
(2) the respondent may submit views in
writing regarding the final draft to the sub-
committee within 7 calendar days of receipt
of that draft;
(3) the subcommittee shall transmit a re-
port to the Committee regarding the State-
ment of Alleged Violation together with any
views submitted by the respondent pursuant
to subparagraph (2), and the Committee shall
make the report, together with the respond-
ent’s views, available to the public before
the commencement of any sanction hearing;
and
(4) the Committee shall by an affirmative
vote of a majority of its members issue a re-
port and transmit such report to the House
of Representatives, together with the re-
spondent’s views previously submitted pur-
suant to subparagraph (2) and any additional
views respondent may submit for attach-
ment to the final report; and
(d) Members of the Committee shall have
not less than 72 hours to review any report
transmitted to the Committee by an inves-
tigative subcommittee before both the com-
mencement of a sanction hearing and the
Committee vote on whether to adopt the re-
port.
RULE 22. RESPONDENT’S ANSWER
(a)(1) Within 30 days from the date of
transmittal of a Statement of Alleged Viola-
tion, the respondent shall file with the inves-
tigative subcommittee an answer, in writing
and under oath, signed by respondent and re-
spondent’s counsel. Failure to file an answer
within the time prescribed shall be consid-
ered by the Committee as a denial of each
count.
(2) The answer shall contain an admission
to or denial of each count set forth in the
Statement of Alleged Violation and may in-
clude negative, affirmative, or alternative
defenses and any supporting evidence or
other relevant information.
(b) The respondent may file a Motion for a
Bill of Particulars within 10 days of the date
of transmittal of the Statement of Alleged
Violation. If a Motion for a Bill of Particu-
lars is filed, the respondent shall not be re-
quired to file an answer until 20 days after
the subcommittee has replied to such mo-
tion.
(c)(1) The respondent may file a Motion to
Dismiss within 10 days of the date of trans-
mittal of the Statement of Alleged Violation
or, if a Motion for a Bill of Particulars has
been filed, within 10 days of the date of the
subcommittee’s reply to the Motion for a
Bill of Particulars. If a Motion to Dismiss is
filed, the respondent shall not be required to
file an answer until 20 days after the sub-
committee has replied to the Motion to Dis-
miss, unless the respondent previously filed
a Motion for a Bill of Particulars, in which
case the respondent shall not be required to
file an answer until 10 days after the sub-
committee has replied to the Motion to Dis-
miss. The investigative subcommittee shall
rule upon any motion to dismiss filed during
the period between the establishment of the
subcommittee and the subcommittee’s trans-
mittal of a report or Statement of Alleged
Violation to the Committee or to the Chair
and Ranking Minority Member at the con-
clusion of an inquiry, and no appeal of the
subcommittee’s ruling shall lie to the Com-
mittee.
(2) A Motion to Dismiss may be made on
the grounds that the Statement of Alleged
Violation fails to state facts that constitute
a violation of the Code of Official Conduct or
other applicable law, rule, regulation, or
standard of conduct, or on the grounds that
the Committee lacks jurisdiction to consider
the allegations contained in the Statement.
(d) Any motion filed with the sub-
committee pursuant to this rule shall be ac-
companied by a Memorandum of Points and
Authorities.
(e)(1) The Chair of the investigative sub-
committee, for good cause shown, may per-
mit the respondent to file an answer or mo-
tion after the day prescribed above.
(2) If the ability of the respondent to
present an adequate defense is not adversely
affected and special circumstances so re-
quire, the Chair of the investigative sub-
committee may direct the respondent to file
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.033 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2644 March 11, 2019
an answer or motion prior to the day pre-
scribed above.
(f) If the day on which any answer, motion,
reply, or other pleading must be filed falls on
a Saturday, Sunday, or public holiday, such
filing shall be made on the first business day
thereafter.
(g) As soon as practicable after an answer
has been filed or the time for such filing has
expired, the Statement of Alleged Violation
and any answer, motion, reply, or other
pleading connected therewith shall be trans-
mitted by the Chair of the investigative sub-
committee to the Chair and Ranking Minor-
ity Member of the Committee.
RULE 23. ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS
(a) If a Statement of Alleged Violation is
transmitted to the Chair and Ranking Mi-
nority Member pursuant to Rule 22, and no
waiver pursuant to Rule 26(b) has occurred,
the Chair shall designate the members of the
Committee who did not serve on the inves-
tigative subcommittee to serve on an adju-
dicatory subcommittee. The Chair and Rank-
ing Minority Member of the Committee shall
be the Chair and Ranking Minority Member
of the adjudicatory subcommittee unless
they served on the investigative sub-
committee. The respondent shall be notified
of the designation of the adjudicatory sub-
committee and shall have 10 days after such
notice is transmitted to object to the par-
ticipation of any subcommittee member.
Such objection shall be in writing and shall
be on the grounds that the member cannot
render an impartial and unbiased decision.
The members of the Committee shall engage
in a collegial discussion regarding such ob-
jection. The member against whom the ob-
jection is made shall be the sole judge of any
disqualification and may choose to seek dis-
qualification from serving on the sub-
committee pursuant to Rule 9(e).
(b) A majority of the adjudicatory sub-
committee membership plus one must be
present at all times for the conduct of any
business pursuant to this rule.
(c) The adjudicatory subcommittee shall
hold a hearing to determine whether any
counts in the Statement of Alleged Violation
have been proved by clear and convincing
evidence and shall make findings of fact, ex-
cept where such violations have been admit-
ted by respondent.
(d) The subcommittee may require, by sub-
poena or otherwise, the attendance and testi-
mony of such witnesses and production of
such books, records, correspondence, memo-
randa, papers, documents, and other items as
it deems necessary. A subpoena for docu-
ments may specify terms of return other
than at a meeting or hearing of the sub-
committee. Depositions, interrogatories, and
sworn statements taken under any investiga-
tive subcommittee direction may be accept-
ed into the hearing record.
(e) The procedures set forth in clause
2(g)(1)–(4), (6)–(7) and (k) of Rule XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives shall
apply to adjudicatory hearings. All such
hearings shall be open to the public unless
the adjudicatory subcommittee, pursuant to
such clause; determines that the hearings or
any part thereof should be closed.
(f)(1) The adjudicatory subcommittee shall,
in writing, notify the respondent that the re-
spondent and respondent’s counsel have the
right to inspect, review, copy, or photograph
books, papers, documents, photographs, or
other tangible objects that committee coun-
sel intends to use as evidence against the re-
spondent in an adjudicatory hearing. The re-
spondent shall be given access to such evi-
dence, and shall be provided the names of
witnesses committee counsel intends to call,
and a summary of their expected testimony,
no less than 15 calendar days prior to any
such hearing. Except in extraordinary cir-
cumstances, no evidence may be introduced
or witness called in an adjudicatory hearing
unless the respondent has been afforded a
prior opportunity to review such evidence or
has been provided the name of the witness.
(2) After a witness has testified on direct
examination at an adjudicatory hearing, the
Committee, at the request of the respondent,
shall make available to the respondent any
statement of the witness in the possession of
the Committee which relates to the subject
matter as to which the witness has testified.
(3) Any other testimony, statement, or
documentary evidence in the possession of
the Committee which is material to the re-
spondent’s defense shall, upon request, be
made available to the respondent.
(g) No less than 5 days prior to the hearing,
the respondent or counsel shall provide the
adjudicatory subcommittee with the names
of witnesses expected to be called, sum-
maries of their expected testimony, and cop-
ies of any documents or other evidence pro-
posed to be introduced.
(h) The respondent or counsel may apply to
the subcommittee for the issuance of sub-
poenas for the appearance of witnesses or the
production of evidence. The application shall
be granted upon a showing by the respondent
that the proposed testimony or evidence is
relevant and not otherwise available to re-
spondent. The application may be denied if
not made at a reasonable time or if the testi-
mony or evidence would be merely cumu-
lative.
(i) No later than two weeks or 5 legislative
days after the Chair of the Committee des-
ignates members to serve on an adjudicatory
subcommittee, whichever is later, the Chair
of the adjudicatory subcommittee shall es-
tablish a schedule and procedure for the
hearing and for prehearing matters. The pro-
cedures may be changed either by the Chair
of the adjudicatory subcommittee or a by a
majority vote of the members of the sub-
committee. If the Chair makes prehearing
rulings upon any question of admissibility or
relevance of evidence, motion, procedure, or
any other matter, the Chair shall make
available those rulings to all subcommittee
members at the time of the ruling.
(j) The procedures regarding the admissi-
bility of evidence and rulings shall be as fol-
lows:
(1) Any relevant evidence shall be admis-
sible unless the evidence is privileged under
the precedents of the House of Representa-
tives.
(2) The Chair of the subcommittee or other
presiding member at an adjudicatory sub-
committee hearing shall rule upon any ques-
tion of admissibility or relevance of evi-
dence, motion, procedure, or any other mat-
ter, and may direct any witness to answer
any question under penalty of contempt. A
witness, witness counsel, or a member of the
subcommittee may appeal any ruling to the
members present at that proceeding. A ma-
jority vote of the members present at such
proceeding on such an appeal shall govern
the question of admissibility and no appeal
shall lie to the Committee.
(3) Whenever a witness is deemed by a
Chair or other presiding member to be in
contempt of the subcommittee, the matter
may be referred to the Committee to deter-
mine whether to refer the matter to the
House of Representatives for consideration.
(4) Committee counsel may, subject to sub-
committee approval, enter into stipulations
with the respondent and/or the respondent’s
counsel as to facts that are not in dispute.
(k) Unless otherwise provided, the order of
an adjudicatory hearing shall be as follows:
(1) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber of the subcommittee shall open the hear-
ing with equal time and during which time,
the Chair shall state the adjudicatory sub-
committee’s authority to conduct the hear-
ing and the purpose of the hearing.
(2) The Chair shall then recognize Com-
mittee counsel and the respondent’s counsel,
in turn, for the purpose of giving opening
statements.
(3) Testimony from witnesses and other
relevant evidence shall be received in the fol-
lowing order whenever possible:
(i) witnesses (deposition transcripts and af-
fidavits obtained during the inquiry may be
used in lieu of live witnesses) and other evi-
dence offered by Committee counsel,
(ii) witnesses and other evidence offered by
the respondent,
(iii) rebuttal witnesses, as permitted by
the Chair.
(4) Witnesses at a hearing shall be exam-
ined first by counsel calling such witness.
The opposing counsel may then cross-exam-
ine the witness. Redirect examination and
recross examination by counsel may be per-
mitted at the Chair’s discretion. Sub-
committee members may then question wit-
nesses. Unless otherwise directed by the
Chair, questions by Subcommittee members
shall be conducted under the five-minute
rule.
(5) The Chair shall then recognize Com-
mittee counsel and respondent’s counsel, in
turn, for the purpose of giving closing argu-
ments. Committee counsel may reserve time
for rebuttal argument, as permitted by the
Chair.
(1) A subpoena to a witness to appear at a
hearing shall be served sufficiently in ad-
vance of that witness’ scheduled appearance
to allow the witness a reasonable period of
time, as determined by the Chair of the adju-
dicatory subcommittee, to prepare for the
hearing and to employ counsel.
(m) Each witness appearing before the sub-
committee shall be furnished a printed or
electronic copy of the Committee rules, the
relevant provisions of the Rules of the House
of Representatives applicable to the rights of
witnesses, and a copy of the Statement of Al-
leged Violation.
(n) Testimony of all witnesses shall be
taken under oath or affirmation. The form of
the oath or affirmation shall be: ‘‘Do you
solemnly swear (or affirm) that the testi-
mony you will give before this subcommittee
in the matter now under consideration will
be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth (so help you God)?’’ The oath
or affirmation shall be administered by the
Chair or Committee member designated by
the Chair to administer oaths.
(o) At an adjudicatory hearing, the burden
of proof rests on Committee counsel to es-
tablish the facts alleged in the Statement of
Alleged Violation by clear and convincing
evidence. However, Committee counsel need
not present any evidence regarding any
count that is admitted by the respondent or
any fact stipulated. Committee counsel or
respondent’s counsel may move the adjudica-
tory subcommittee to make a finding that
there is no material fact at issue. If the adju-
dicatory subcommittee finds that there is no
material fact at issue, the burden of proof
will be deemed satisfied.
(p) As soon as practicable after all testi-
mony and evidence have been presented, the
subcommittee shall consider each count con-
tained in the Statement of Alleged Violation
and shall determine by a majority vote of its
members whether each count has been
proved. If a majority of the subcommittee
does not vote that a count has been proved,
a motion to reconsider that vote may be
made only by a member who voted that the
count was not proved. A count that is not
proved shall be considered as dismissed by
the subcommittee.
(q) The findings of the adjudicatory sub-
committee shall be reported to the Com-
mittee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.035 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2645
March 11, 2019
RULE 24. SANCTION HEARING AND CONSIDER-
ATION OF SANCTIONS OR OTHER RECOMMENDA-
TIONS
(a) If no count in a Statement of Alleged
Violation is proved, the Committee shall
prepare a report to the House of Representa-
tives, based upon the report of the adjudica-
tory subcommittee.
(b) If an adjudicatory subcommittee com-
pletes an adjudicatory hearing pursuant to
Rule 23 and reports that any count of the
Statement of Alleged Violation has been
proved, a hearing before the Committee shall
be held to receive oral and/or written sub-
missions by counsel for the Committee and
counsel for the respondent as to the sanction
the Committee should recommend to the
House of Representatives with respect to
such violations. Testimony by witnesses
shall not be heard except by written request
and vote of a majority of the Committee.
(c) Upon completion of any proceeding held
pursuant to clause (b), the Committee shall
consider and vote on a motion to recommend
to the House of Representatives that the
House take disciplinary action. If a majority
of the Committee does not vote in favor of
the recommendation that the House of Rep-
resentatives take action, a motion to recon-
sider that vote may be made only by a mem-
ber who voted against the recommendation.
The Committee may also, by majority vote,
adopt a motion to issue a Letter of Reproval
or take other appropriate Committee action.
(d) If the Committee determines a Letter
of Reproval constitutes sufficient action, the
Committee shall include any such letter as a
part of its report to the House of Representa-
tives.
(e) With respect to any proved counts
against a Member of the House of Represent-
atives, the Committee may recommend to
the House one or more of the following sanc-
tions:
(1) Expulsion from the House of Represent-
atives.
(2) Censure.
(3) Reprimand.
(4) Fine.
(5) Denial or limitation of any right,
power, privilege, or immunity of the Member
if under the Constitution the House of Rep-
resentatives may impose such denial or limi-
tation.
(6) Any other sanction determined by the
Committee to be appropriate.
(f) With respect to any proved counts
against an officer or employee of the House
of Representatives, the Committee may rec-
ommend to the House one or more of the fol-
lowing sanctions:
(1) Dismissal from employment.
(2) Reprimand.
(3) Fine.
(4) Any other sanction determined by the
Committee to be appropriate.
(g) With respect to the sanctions that the
Committee may recommend, reprimand is
appropriate for serious violations, censure is
appropriate for more serious violations, and
expulsion of a Member or dismissal of an of-
ficer or employee is appropriate for the most
serious violations. A recommendation of a
fine is appropriate in a case in which it is
likely that the violation was committed to
secure a personal financial benefit; and a
recommendation of a denial or limitation of
a right, power, privilege, or immunity of a
Member is appropriate when the violation
bears upon the exercise or holding of such
right, power, privilege, or immunity. This
clause sets forth general guidelines and does
not limit the authority of the Committee to
recommend other sanctions.
(h) The Committee report shall contain an
appropriate statement of the evidence sup-
porting the Committee’s findings and a
statement of the Committee’s reasons for
the recommended sanction.
RULE 25. DISCLOSURE OF EXCULPATORY
INFORMATION TO RESPONDENT
If the Committee, or any investigative or
adjudicatory subcommittee at any time re-
ceives any exculpatory information respect-
ing a Complaint or Statement of Alleged
Violation concerning a respondent, it shall
make such information known and available
to the respondent as soon as practicable, but
in no event later than the transmittal of evi-
dence supporting a proposed Statement of
Alleged Violation pursuant to Rule 26(c). If
an investigative subcommittee does not
adopt a Statement of Alleged Violation, it
shall identify any exculpatory information
in its possession at the conclusion of its in-
quiry and shall include such information, if
any, in the subcommittee’s final report to
the Committee regarding its inquiry. For
purposes of this rule, exculpatory evidence
shall be any evidence or information that is
substantially favorable to the respondent
with respect to the allegations or charges be-
fore an investigative or adjudicatory sub-
committee.
RULE 26. RIGHTS OF RESPONDENTS AND
WITNESSES
(a) A respondent shall be informed of the
right to be represented by counsel, to be pro-
vided at the respondent’s own expense.
(b) A respondent may seek to waive any
procedural rights or steps in the disciplinary
process. A request for waiver must be in
writing, signed by the respondent, and must
detail what procedural steps the respondent
seeks to waive. Any such request shall be
subject to the acceptance of the Committee
or subcommittee, as appropriate.
(c) Not less than 10 calendar days before a
scheduled vote by an investigative sub-
committee on a Statement of Alleged Viola-
tion, the subcommittee shall provide the re-
spondent with a copy of the Statement of Al-
leged Violation it intends to adopt together
with all evidence it intends to use to prove
those charges which it intends to adopt, in-
cluding documentary evidence, witness testi-
mony, memoranda of witness interviews, and
physical evidence, unless the subcommittee
by an affirmative vote of a majority of its
members decides to withhold certain evi-
dence in order to protect a witness, but if
such evidence is withheld, the subcommittee
shall inform the respondent that evidence is
being withheld and of the count to which
such evidence relates.
(d) Neither the respondent nor respond-
ent’s counsel shall, directly or indirectly,
contact the subcommittee or any member
thereof during the period of time set forth in
paragraph (c) except for the sole purpose of
settlement discussions where counsels for
the respondent and the subcommittee are
present.
(e) If, at any time after the issuance of a
Statement of Alleged Violation, the Com-
mittee or any subcommittee thereof deter-
mines that it intends to use evidence not
provided to a respondent under paragraph (c)
to prove the charges contained in the State-
ment of Alleged Violation (or any amend-
ment thereof), such evidence shall be made
immediately available to the respondent,
and it may be used in any further proceeding
under the Committee’s rules.
(f) Evidence provided pursuant to para-
graph (c) or (e) shall be made available to
the respondent and respondent’s counsel
only after each agrees, in writing, that no
document, information, or other materials
obtained pursuant to that paragraph shall be
made public until—
(1) such time as a Statement of Alleged
Violation is made public by the Committee if
the respondent has waived the adjudicatory
hearing; or
(2) the commencement of an adjudicatory
hearing if the respondent has not waived an
adjudicatory hearing; but the failure of re-
spondent and respondent’s counsel to so
agree in writing, and therefore not receive
the evidence, shall not preclude the issuance
of a Statement of Alleged Violation at the
end of the period referenced to in (c).
(g) If the Committee issues a report with
respect to a claim referred to the Committee
by the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights pursuant to Section 416(e) of the Con-
gressional Accountability Act of 1995, the
Committee shall ensure that the report does
not directly disclose the identity or position
of the individual who filed the claim.
(h) A respondent shall receive written no-
tice whenever—
(1) the Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber determine that information the Com-
mittee has received constitutes a complaint;
(2) a complaint or allegation is trans-
mitted to an investigative subcommittee;
(3) that subcommittee votes to authorize
its first subpoena or to take testimony under
oath, whichever occurs first;
(4) the Committee votes to expand the
scope of the inquiry of an investigative sub-
committee; and
(5) the Committee or an investigative sub-
committee determines to take into evidence
the trial transcript or exhibits admitted into
evidence at a criminal trial pursuant to Rule
18(e)(3).
(i) Whenever an investigative sub-
committee adopts a Statement of Alleged
Violation and a respondent enters into an
agreement with that subcommittee to settle
an investigation, in whole or in part, on
which the Statement is based, that agree-
ment, unless the respondent requests other-
wise, shall be in writing and signed by the
respondent and the respondent’s counsel, the
Chair and Ranking Minority Member of the
subcommittee, and outside counsel, if any.
(j) Statements or information derived sole-
ly from a respondent or respondent’s counsel
during any settlement discussions between
the Committee or a subcommittee thereof
and the respondent shall not be included in
any report of the subcommittee or the Com-
mittee or otherwise publicly disclosed with-
out the consent of the respondent.
(k) Whenever a motion to establish an in-
vestigative subcommittee does not prevail,
the Committee shall promptly send a letter
to the respondent(s) informing the respond-
ent(s) of such vote.
(1) Witnesses shall be afforded a reasonable
period of time, as determined by the Com-
mittee or subcommittee, to prepare for an
appearance before an investigative sub-
committee or for an adjudicatory hearing
and to obtain counsel.
(m) Prior to their testimony, witnesses
shall be furnished a printed or electronic
copy of the Committee’s Rules and the provi-
sions of the Rules of the House of Represent-
atives applicable to the rights of witnesses.
(n) Witnesses may be accompanied by their
own counsel for the purpose of advising them
concerning their constitutional rights. The
Chair may punish breaches of order and de-
corum, and of professional responsibility on
the part of counsel, by censure and exclusion
from the hearings; and the Committee may
cite the offender to the House of Representa-
tives for contempt.
(o) Each witness subpoenaed to provide tes-
timony or other evidence shall be provided
the same per diem rate as established, au-
thorized, and regulated by the Committee on
House Administration for Members, officers,
and employees of the House, and, as the
Chair considers appropriate, actual expenses
of travel to or from the place of examina-
tion. No compensation shall be authorized
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.037 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2646 March 11, 2019
for attorney’s fees or for a witness’ lost earn-
ings. Such per diem may not be paid if a wit-
ness had been summoned at the place of ex-
amination.
(p) With the approval of the Committee, a
witness, upon request, may be provided with
a transcript of the witness’ own deposition
or other testimony taken in executive ses-
sion, or, with the approval of the Chair and
Ranking Minority Member, may be per-
mitted to examine such transcript in the of-
fice of the Committee. Any such request
shall be in writing and shall include a state-
ment that the witness, and counsel, agree to
maintain the confidentiality of all executive
session proceedings covered by such tran-
script.
RULE 27. FRIVOLOUS FILINGS
If a complaint or information offered as a
complaint is deemed frivolous by an affirma-
tive vote of a majority of the members of the
Committee, the Committee may take such
action as it, by an affirmative vote of a ma-
jority deems appropriate in the cir-
cumstances.
RULE 28. REFERRALS TO FEDERAL OR STATE
AUTHORITIES
Referrals made under clause 3(a)(3) of Rule
XI of the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives may be made by an affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the members of the Committee.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 725. An act to change the address of the
postal facility designated in honor of Cap-
tain Humayun Khan; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The Speaker on Friday, March 8,
2019, announced her signature to an en-
rolled bill of the Senate of the fol-
lowing title:
S. 49—An act to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in North
Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet
Center Outstation.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I move that
the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 45 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, March 12, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 758, the
Cooperate with Law Enforcement
Agencies and Watch Act of 2019, would
have no significant effect on direct
spending or revenues, and therefore,
the budgetary effects of such bill are
estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 974, the
Federal Reserve Supervision Testi-
mony Clarification Act, would have no
significant effect on direct spending or
revenues, and therefore, the budgetary
effects of such bill are estimated as
zero.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. DESAULNIER: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 208. Resolution providing
for consideration of the concurrent resolu-
tion (H. Con. Res. 24) expressing the sense of
Congress that the report of Special Counsel
Mueller should be made available to the pub-
lic and to Congress, and providing for pro-
ceedings during the period from March 15,
2019, through March 22, 2019 (Rept. 116–17).
Referred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. MARCHANT (for himself and
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama):
H.R. 1662. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish a pilot program to
provide grants to secondary schools for as-
sistive technology devices and assistive tech-
nology services and to create programs to
benefit students with autism or apraxia, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Mr.
RASKIN):
H.R. 1663. A bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to revise the Federal charter for
the Foundation of the Federal Bar Associa-
tion; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself,
Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. STEWART, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. WESTERMAN, and Mr. CUR-
TIS):
H.R. 1664. A bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to reform the Antiquities Act of
1906, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. STEVENS (for herself and Mr.
BAIRD):
H.R. 1665. A bill to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM edu-
cation research focused on early childhood;
to the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself
and Mr. LUETKEMEYER):
H.R. 1666. A bill to amend the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to allow for the
consideration of private flood insurance for
the purposes of applying continuous cov-
erage requirements, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and
Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 1667. A bill to require a report on the
contingency plan of the Department of
Transportation in the event of the failure of
a rail track in the North River Tunnel, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. WALKER, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Mr. FOSTER, and Mr. BAIRD):
H.R. 1668. A bill to leverage Federal Gov-
ernment procurement power to encourage in-
creased cybersecurity for Internet of Things
devices, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Miss RICE of New York, and Mr.
SUOZZI):
H.R. 1669. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the department in which the Coast Guard is
operating to study and report to the Con-
gress regarding recreational vessel operator
training; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself and Mr. KING of
New York):
H.R. 1670. A bill to prevent gun trafficking;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. KING of
New York, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Ohio, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
UPTON, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. LAMB, Mr. STIVERS, Ms.
DEAN, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
KATKO, and Mr. BACON):
H.R. 1671. A bill to provide for the report-
ing to State and local law enforcement au-
thorities of cases in which the national in-
stant criminal background check system in-
dicates that a firearm has been sought to be
acquired by a prohibited person, so that au-
thorities may pursue criminal charges under
State law, and to ensure that the Depart-
ment of Justice reports to Congress on pros-
ecutions secured against prohibited persons
who attempt to acquire a firearm; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 1672. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to ensure that public insti-
tutions of higher education protect expres-
sive activities in the outdoor areas on cam-
pus; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia (for
himself, Mr. DUNN, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, and Mr. SCHRADER):
H.R. 1673. A bill to amend the Motor Car-
rier Safety Improvement Act of 1999 with re-
spect to the definition of agricultural com-
modities, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. TIPTON (for himself and Mr.
CROW):
H.R. 1674. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot pro-
gram to expedite the onboarding process for
new medical providers of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, to reduce the duration of
the hiring process for such medical pro-
viders, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. TLAIB (for herself and Ms.
KELLY of Illinois):
H.R. 1675. A bill to require a study on the
public health and environmental impacts of
the production, transportation, storage, and
use of petroleum coke, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. POCAN,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.038 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2647
March 11, 2019
Mr. KILMER, Ms. TITUS, Mr. ENGEL,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CRIST,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
VELA, Mr. COHEN, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. WILD, Mrs.
LOWEY, Ms. MOORE, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. NADLER, Mr. CORREA, Mr. PAL-
LONE, and Ms. MCCOLLUM):
H.R. 1676. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to ex-
pand access to school-wide arts and music
programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, and Mr. MCCAUL):
H.R. 1677. A bill to repeal certain foreign
affairs reporting requirements; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H. Res. 207. A resolution providing
amounts for the expenses of the Committee
on Oversight and Reform in the One Hundred
Sixteenth Congress; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington):
H. Res. 209. A resolution declaring support
for Brain Awareness Week; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself and
Mr. WALKER):
H. Res. 210. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the month of April 2019
as Second Chance Month; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri):
H. Res. 211. A resolution providing
amounts for the expenses of the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure in the
One Hundred Sixteenth Congress; to the
Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H. Res. 212. A resolution providing
amounts for the expenses of the Committee
on Ethics in the One Hundred Sixteenth Con-
gress; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for him-
self, Mr. POSEY, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. MAST, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. DUNN, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
Mr. SPANO, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mrs.
MURPHY, Mr. DEUTCH, and Mr. SOTO):
H. Res. 213. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Women Veterans
Recognition Week; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself and Mr.
MAST):
H. Res. 214. A resolution supporting the
goals to protect United States military per-
sonnel from malaria; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Armed Services, and Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself and Mr.
NUNES):
H. Res. 215. A resolution providing
amounts for the expenses of the Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence in the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself and
Ms. NORTON):
H. Res. 216. A resolution expressing support
for designation of March 2019 as Music in Our
Schools Month; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. MARCHANT:
H.R. 1662.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 1: To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 1663.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 18, that the Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 1664.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, clause 2
By Ms. STEVENS:
H.R. 1665.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
H.R. 1666.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the explicit power of Congress to
regulate commerce in and among the states,
as enumerate in Article 1, Section 8, Clause
3, the Commerce Clause, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER:
H.R. 1667.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution of the United States
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 1668.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 1669.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1670.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 1671.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 1672.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 1673.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 1674.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
section 8 of Article I of Constitution
By Ms. TLAIB:
H.R. 1675.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 1676.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 1677.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 20: Mr. ADERHOLT.
H.R. 33: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 35: Ms. DEAN, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Ms. WATERS, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 36: Ms. DEAN, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. NEGUSE,
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, and Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 51: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 55: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 125: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 155: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 194: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 230: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Mr.
THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 273: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 275: Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
CARBAJAL, and Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 303: Mr. KATKO, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr.
SCHRADER, and Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 330: Miss RICE of New York and Mr.
TAKANO.
H.R. 402: Mr. BIGGS and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 435: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. UNDER-
WOOD, and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 490: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 510: Mr. WALDEN, Ms. DAVIDS of Kan-
sas, and Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
H.R. 511: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 530: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 535: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 553: Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. CROW,
Ms. WEXTON, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. PALLONE,
Mr. ARMSTRONG, and Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 568: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 582: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 596: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 613: Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
and Mr. CURTIS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L11MR7.100 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2648 March 11, 2019
H.R. 651: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 663: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 665: Mr. NEGUSE and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 692: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 693: Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. O’HALLERAN,
Mr. TONKO, and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 728: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 736: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 737: Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CASE, Mr. CORREA, Mr. COX of California, Ms.
LOFGREN, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. OLSON,
Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. TONKO, and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 738: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 748: Mrs. HAYES, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BAIRD, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 757: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 758: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 761: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 803: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 808: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Mr.
LYNCH.
H.R. 856: Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 864: Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 874: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 878: Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 890: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 919: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 925: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 943: Mr. ZELDIN, Ms. MENG, Mr.
KATKO, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 945: Mr. MOULTON and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 959: Mr. GOSAR, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. BRADY,
Mr. MEADOWS, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Ms. NORTON, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 960: Mr. GOSAR, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. BRADY,
Mr. MEADOWS, Ms. STEFANIK, Mrs. BROOKS of
Indiana, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia.
H.R. 965: Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. COLE, Mr. GAL-
LAGHER, and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 973: Mr. CISNEROS and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 974: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 983: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Ms.
WILD.
H.R. 985: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 997: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1002: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. KIND, and Ms.
JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 1019: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 1049: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1058: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. KIM, and Mr.
WELCH.
H.R. 1074: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1080: Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, and Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1108: Mr. BACON, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
ESTES, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio, Mr. MAST, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 1126: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 1134: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1137: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1139: Mr. CLEAVER and Ms. JUDY CHU
of California.
H.R. 1142: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1153: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 1163: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 1169: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1185: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Ms. KELLY of
Illinois.
H.R. 1225: Mrs. MCBATH, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. CUELLAR,
and Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 1226: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1233: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1234: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 1266: Mr. KHANNA and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 1279: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1292: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 1297: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1300: Mr. BEYER, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
DELBENE, Ms. NORTON, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1309: Mrs. HAYES, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms.
MOORE, and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1327: Mr. CROW, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, and Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1339: Mr. GUTHRIE.
H.R. 1342: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
MATSUI, Miss RICE of New York, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, and Mr.
HECK.
H.R. 1346: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1366: Mr. BIGGS, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
KATKO, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1368: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1379: Mr. PHILLIPS and Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 1380: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. KIND, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
and Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 1396: Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
KILMER, Ms. NORTON, Mrs. BUSTOS, and Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 1404: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1407: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, and
Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1411: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1412: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1414: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1418: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 1420: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 1423: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1425: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1433: Miss RICE of New York and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 1435: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 1479: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1497: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. LYNCH, and Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1512: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1528: Mr. TONKO and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 1534: Mr. COHEN and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1536: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1545: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr.
BYRNE, and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1560: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 1569: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1570: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. RUIZ, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. RUTHERFORD, and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1572: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1576: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1582: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1595: Mr. AMODEI, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. CONNOLLY, and Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.R. 1603: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 1605: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. HOLDING.
H.R. 1617: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1620: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, and Mr.
TRONE.
H.R. 1622: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. KILMER, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. SOTO, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. TITUS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. HAALAND, and Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 1629: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Ms.
GABBARD.
H.R. 1643: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Mr.
POCAN.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. DELGADO.
H.J. Res. 38: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. VELA, Mr.
TRONE, and Mr. DEUTCH.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. KATKO and Mr. HARDER
of California.
H. Con. Res. 24: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. DOG-
GETT.
H. Res. 23: Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. RUSH, and Mr.
LAHOOD.
H. Res. 39: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H. Res. 60: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Mr. CROW.
H. Res. 72: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. Res. 88: Mr. KENNEDY and Mr. LYNCH.
H. Res. 107: Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. CHABOT,
and Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 116: Mr. HIMES, Mr. HUDSON, and
Mrs. HARTZLER.
H. Res. 129: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Mr.
SUOZZI.
H. Res. 133: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN and Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H. Res. 154: Ms. WEXTON.
H. Res. 156: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
TAYLOR, and Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 171: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. MATSUI,
and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H. Res. 173: Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
CRIST, and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H. Res. 177: Mr. ALLRED.
H. Res. 190: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
LOFGREN, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR7.019 H11MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1749
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2019 No. 43
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Spirit of God, who brought creation
out of the void, light from darkness,
and order from chaos, everything under
Heaven belongs to You. Lord, use our
lawmakers for Your glory. May their
daily experiences of joy and sorrow,
pleasure and pain, victory and defeat,
bring honor to Your Name. Remind our
Senators that no evil can stop the un-
folding of Your purposes and provi-
dence. Lead them this day with Your
merciful hands, providing for their
needs. Bless all who labor for liberty,
protecting them with the shield of
Your love.
We pray in Your holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Paul B. Matey, of New Jer-
sey, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Third Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
SECRET HOLDS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, it is
Sunshine Week, and I support trans-
parency throughout government. The
public’s business ought to be public.
That includes right here in the U.S.
Senate.
My newer colleagues might be un-
aware that the Senate has banned what
are referred to as secret holds. Since
January 2011, a standing order has been
in effect, requiring that Senators make
public any hold they place on bills or
nominations.
A Senator, of course, has a right to
withhold consent when unanimous con-
sent is needed to move to a measure.
However, there is absolutely no right
to do so in secret. The public’s business
ought to be done in public.
That is why Senator WYDEN and I
sent a letter to all Senators reminding
them of this standing order that we au-
thored requiring disclosure of holds.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent for 1 more minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. GRASSLEY. When Senators
spend most of their time on the Senate
floor, as they used to before the Senate
was on television, it was easy for any
Senator to stand up and say ‘‘I object,’’
if consent were asked for any motion
or any nomination. Now we spend most
of our time in committee hearings and
meeting with those we represent. We
rely on our party leadership to protect
our rights, and we sometimes tell them
if we need someone to object on our be-
half to moving a bill or a nominee.
That happens to be called a hold. A
hold should not be secret, I want every-
body to know that sometimes I put
holds on nominations or bills.
Whoever heard of shouting ‘‘I object’’
in secret? A hold, in other words, ought
to be public, as the standing order re-
quires. The Senate affirmed that in the
year 2011 by adopting a permanent
standing order that Senator WYDEN
and I wrote. I remind my colleagues,
that standing order is still in place.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, in
the last couple of weeks, I have come
to the floor for a few short comments
on the Green New Deal. I have com-
pared it to the New Deal of the Frank-
lin Delano Roosevelt administration
and its attempt to get us out of the De-
pression with the New Deal then.
In his 1932 campaign for President,
Franklin Delano Roosevelt called for
what he called a ‘‘bold persistent ex-
perimentation.’’ That is a pretty good
description of the New Deal. It wasn’t
a very cohesive plan, but it was a col-
lection of disconnected policies. In that
sense, the Green New Deal emulates its
namesake. It, too, is kind of a collec-
tion of disconnected policies.
The New Deal of the 1930s failed to
pull the economy out of the Depression
that actually ended at the beginning of
World War II. It is not surprising, how-
ever, that it didn’t pull us out of the
Depression because it didn’t create eco-
nomic growth. Economic growth needs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR6.000 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1750 March 11, 2019
predictable and sensible tax and regu-
latory policies. We have seen the fruits
of this approach under the Trump ad-
ministration. So let’s not, through the
Green Deal, kill the goose that laid the
golden egg.
The Green New Deal is both breath-
taking in its professed ambitions and,
quite frankly, laughably weak. It is
just a resolution calling on the govern-
ment to enact a whole range of poli-
cies.
Then, why not introduce a bill that
actually does something rather than a
resolution calling for future implau-
sible actions?
It is supposed to be about protecting
the environment. As someone with a
track record of real bipartisan achieve-
ments that have resulted in a cleaner
environment, I don’t get it. If you want
to know my credentials there, I am the
father of the wind energy tax credit,
just as an example. We get 38 percent
of our electricity from wind in Iowa.
What do universal healthcare—an-
other item of the Green New Deal—or
free college tuition or a Federal jobs
guarantee program have to do with the
environment anyway? All of those
things are in the Green New Deal.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mi-
nority leader is recognized.
DECLARATION OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY
Mr. SCHUMER. By the end of this
week, the Senate will vote on a resolu-
tion to terminate the President’s emer-
gency declaration. I have laid out the
number of reasons why the Senate
must vote to terminate. The President
has not demonstrated that an emer-
gency exists. During the announcement
of the declaration, the President said
he ‘‘didn’t need to do this.’’ A few
weeks later, 58 former national secu-
rity officials, including former Secre-
taries of State and Defense, said there
was ‘‘no factual basis’’ for an emer-
gency declaration. For the sake of the
facts, the Senate must vote to termi-
nate.
We also have no idea which military
construction projects might be on the
chopping block. Republican Senators
who vote against this declaration do so
at their own peril. They may be voting
to deprive necessary funds from mili-
tary installations in their States. For
the sake of the brave men and women
of our Armed Forces, the Senate must
vote to terminate.
Of course, the constitutional ques-
tions loom largest. The President
failed to convince Congress, the Amer-
ican people, and, perhaps most glar-
ingly, Mexico to pay for his border
wall. Now he is attempting to use
emergency powers to subvert the will
of Congress. If allowed to stand, this
emergency declaration would be a de-
facement of our constitutional order
and one of the largest power grabs for
the executive branch in the more than
200 years this Nation has been in exist-
ence.
My colleagues must contemplate the
possibility that if President Trump
were to succeed with his phony emer-
gency declaration, future Presidents
would have a precedent to claim emer-
gencies whenever Congress failed to en-
dorse their policies. In effect, Congress
would no longer be a coequal branch of
government. It would change the bal-
ance of power rather dramatically in
ways the Founding Fathers would
never have contemplated. In fact, it
would horrify many of the Founding
Fathers, who were so worried about an
overweening Executive in the person-
age of King George.
I know many of my Republican
friends are afraid to cross the Presi-
dent. We know he can be vindictive. I
know that several support the idea of
building a wall but want to oppose the
emergency declaration. I would say to
my colleagues respectfully: You have
been able to express your support for a
border wall numerous times in the past
Congress and in this one. Another
amendment vote will accomplishment
nothing new; it will only poison
Congress’s ability to pass this resolu-
tion.
This is not about policy at our south-
ern border; this is about one thing and
one thing alone—Presidential over-
reach.
Later this week, the Senate ought to
vote a clean resolution to terminate
the emergency. The bottom line is very
simple: If we were upholding the Con-
stitution, it would be 100 to nothing
against the emergency. If there were
no politics, no fear, no worry about
crossing a President, the vote would be
100 to nothing. If people read the Fed-
eralist Papers and the Constitution and
what the Founding Fathers intended,
the vote would be 100 to nothing. I hope
it is as close to that as is possible.
BUDGET PROPOSAL
Mr. President, earlier today, the
Trump administration released its an-
nual request. In recent years, these
budget requests have become state-
ments of principles and priorities rath-
er than working documents. Purely as
a statement of principle, the latest
budget proposal from the Trump ad-
ministration is not only extremely dis-
turbing, but it is totally against what
the President talks about when he
talks to his supporters.
The budget request we received today
would be a gut punch to the middle
class and a handout to powerful special
interests and the wealthiest few. It
would dismantle America’s healthcare
system as we know it, and it would dra-
matically widen the gap in income and
wealth between our Nation’s richest
citizens and the rest.
Now listen to this: The President
talks about how he wants to get better
healthcare for Americans. Certainly
our Republican colleagues do. By cut-
ting healthcare coverage and increas-
ing healthcare costs for millions of
Americans, this budget belies those
promises. President Trump’s budget
would repeal the entire Affordable Care
Act, taking away insurance from 32
million Americans and eliminating
protections for Americans with pre-
existing conditions. How many Repub-
licans are for that?
How about this: $1.5 trillion in cuts
to Medicaid, $845 billion in cuts to
Medicare, $506 billion in cuts to tax
credits that help lower income Ameri-
cans afford insurance. Not only is this
cruel, it is hypocritical. It is against
everything our Republican friends talk
about. It is against what the President
says. He is going to preserve Medicare
and Medicaid, and then he slashes
them. It still befuddles me how he can
get away with this even in these times.
Second, the budget slashes domestic
programs, including investments in in-
frastructure, housing, education, and
the environment—a third of the EPA
budget and one-fifth of the Department
of Transportation budget.
My Republican friends, when your
commissioners and Governors come to
you and say they need more highway
funds, are you going to support a budg-
et that cuts them by 20 percent?
On top of all this, it gives more tax
breaks to the wealthiest few. It would
permanently extend the Trump tax
cuts, costing $1.9 trillion over 10 years.
Seventy percent of the benefits go to
the top one-fifth of America. The stag-
gering costs of these tax cuts are the
reason for all the proposed cuts to
healthcare and infrastructure. The
Trump budget proposes the blind theft
of the middle class to line America’s
deepest pockets.
It is really a disgraceful budget. My
guess is that Mr. Mulvaney at OMB put
it together. He was one of the five most
rightwing people in the Congress. He
wanted to slash everything. The Presi-
dent just green-stamped it so he can
tip his hat to those on the very far
right.
The vast majority of the President’s
supporters—they are a dwindling num-
ber; they are now less than a third of
America—don’t support this. They
don’t support this at all. How many
people who count themselves as sup-
porters of President Trump support
cutting Medicare by close to $1 tril-
lion? How many of those who consider
themselves supporters of Trump sup-
port cutting Medicaid by $1.5 trillion?
How many of the President’s closest
supporters think we should eliminate
protections for preexisting conditions
when people have them? How many of
the President’s supporters want to cut
infrastructure by one-fifth or cut the
clean water and clean air budget by
one-third? Hardly any. This budget is
just sort of an ‘‘Alice in Wonderland’’
document.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.001 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1751
March 11, 2019
Of course, it wouldn’t be a Trump
budget if it didn’t include the fantasy
of another $8.6 billion in funding for
the border wall. The fiction that Mex-
ico would pay for the wall has long
been debunked, although that is what
the President ran on, but it is still
amazing that the Trump administra-
tion proposes year after year that the
American taxpayer pay billions of dol-
lars for a border wall that President
Trump said would be completely free.
It is difficult to overstate the cal-
lousness of President Trump’s budget.
The cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and
numerous middle-class programs are
devastating but maybe not surprising.
This budget will be on the backs of the
Republicans. They support President
Trump.
The Republican Party’s systematic
efforts to rip away Americans’
healthcare, its continued embrace of
the tax cuts for the rich, its refusal to
accept science, facts, and the urgent
need to address climate change have
made cruel and unthinkable budget
proposals like this one par for the
course with our fellow Republicans. It
is sad; it is a shame; and it basically is
total hypocrisy because not one single
Republican would campaign on these
proposals.
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mr. President, this week the Senate
will vote on three controversial nomi-
nees, including two circuit court
judges: Paul Matey for the Third Cir-
cuit and Neomi Rao for the DC Circuit,
the second most powerful court in the
country.
Mr. Matey’s nomination, in keeping
with Leader MCCONNELL just ripping
apart whatever bipartisanship we have
left, has advanced without a blue slip
from either home State Senator, Mr.
BOOKER or Mr. MENENDEZ. In case it
wasn’t clear how little Republicans
care about this once-vaunted tradition,
Mr. Matey has skipped even the cour-
tesy of meeting with Senator MENEN-
DEZ.
Mr. Matey has never made an oral ar-
gument before a Federal Court of Ap-
peals—never. He barely has any litiga-
tion experience either. He has spent
most of his career as a political aide to
Governor Christie. Yet he is nominated
for a lifetime appointment to a circuit
court of appeals, not even a district
court, where his qualifications would
still be questionable, but to a circuit
court.
Ms. Neomi Rao, despite her experi-
ence, might even be worse. As the
Trump administration’s regulatory
czar, she has been in charge of rolling
back consumer protections, environ-
mental protections, and healthcare
protections. So as a nominee for the
DC Circuit, which hears cases on Fed-
eral regulation, Ms. Rao is hopelessly
compromised. Yet she refused to com-
mit to recusing herself from regulatory
matters on which she has worked when
pressed by Senator FEINSTEIN during
the Judiciary hearing.
That is to say nothing of Ms. Rao’s
alarming views. In past writings, Ms.
Rao has expressed skepticism about
climate change, called sexual and ra-
cial oppression ‘‘myths,’’ and argued
that independent Federal Agencies are
unconstitutional. Perhaps worst of all,
she has implied that sexual assault vic-
tims are to blame for the despicable
crimes committed against them.
Honestly, where do my Republican
colleagues find these people? The ma-
jority party always nominates judges
that have a particular bent, but the
Trump administration’s nominees, by
and large, are not mainstream conserv-
atives; they are rightwing ideologues,
many of whom lack the experience,
candor, and moderation that we would
expect in a public servant, let alone a
lifetime judge. For a few of these
judges, the sole qualification is not
their judicial experience, not their
knowledge or erudition, but they are
active members of the Federalist Soci-
ety.
I know this is what my friend the
majority leader cares about: a hard-
right bench. He doesn’t care about
their qualifications; he doesn’t care
about moderation; he doesn’t care
about representing middle-class people
when he nominates these judges. He is
running a conveyor belt of political
partisans, many with extremely thin
legal resumes, onto the courts. He gets
a talking point for his base, but the
quality of these nominees degrades the
Federal bench and cheapens the cause
of justice in America.
I will vote no on both Mr. Matey and
Ms. Rao, and I strongly urge my col-
leagues to do the same.
CHINA TRADE NEGOTIATIONS
Mr. President, finally, on China—the
ongoing negotiations with China have
been something I have been following
closely. Over the past few weeks, there
has been a drumbeat of reporting that
the Trump administration is poised to
accept a weak trade agreement with
China.
Last week, the New York Times re-
ported that China’s draft new foreign
investment law, meant to pacify the
United States, would not include a
complete end to the forced technology
transfers. The most recent published
draft made no mention of preventing
national government regulators from
demanding technology transfers. This
morning, the Times reported that
China has agreed to few, if any, major
restrictions on how it manages its cur-
rency.
For years, China manipulated its cur-
rency to suit its purposes, typically de-
valuing the renminbi to prop up its
manufacturers. I was the first, with
Senator GRAHAM of South Carolina,
back in the early 2000s, to point out
China’s currency manipulation, and it
has continued unabated. In recent days
the renminbi has been allowed to rise,
but, curiously, it fell 10 percent against
the dollar after President Trump’s an-
nouncement on tariffs.
According to the Times, that move
alone negated, at least temporarily,
the impact of President Trump’s latest
round of tariffs. The Chinese have done
everything they can to gain advantage
over us, to steal our jobs, steal our
wealth. They have not played fairly,
and now the President, with his tariffs,
has them where we would want them.
They need to come to an agreement.
But they are hanging tough, and the
President’s inclinations seem to be,
from press reports, to back off so he
can get any deal, so the stock market
will go up temporarily. Make no mis-
take about it—in the long run, this will
hurt America dramatically. The best
paying jobs will be created in China,
not here. The ability of the best Amer-
ican companies to compete worldwide
will be dramatically curtailed.
It is abundantly clear that China is
playing us. They want to give up as lit-
tle as possible while getting out from
under the sting of tariffs.
So I say to President Trump, whom I
have praised on his China policies thus
far—a lot tougher, a lot better than
President Obama or President Bush. I
say to President Trump: Do not get
played. If you don’t achieve what you
set out to achieve, namely, the perma-
nent reform of China’s most abusive
trade practices, then walk away, just
as you walked away from North Korea
when Chairman Kim would not make
real commitments.
President Trump, you must walk
away from China if President Xi re-
fuses meaningful and enduring eco-
nomic reforms. To do otherwise would
be to squander maybe the last best
chance of putting American workers
and businesses on a level playing field
with our No. 1 economic competitor.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
SOCIALISM
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, in
thinking about some of the debates
swirling about here in Washington, DC,
as to whether capitalism or socialism
should be a preferred economic model,
I recall a story that involves Boris
Yeltsin, who went on to become the
Russian President, who happened to be
in Houston, TX, in 1989, visiting the
Johnson Space Center—a very impor-
tant part of NASA in Houston—when
he decided to visit a grocery store in
Clear Lake, TX. Though it sounds like
it could be, this isn’t the beginning of
a Wes Anderson film.
It was nearly 20 years ago, in 1989,
when the Soviet Union had not yet im-
ploded and when the Berlin Wall was
still standing. It would be 2 years be-
fore Yeltsin would be forced to take
steps to begin to transform the Soviet
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.003 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1752 March 11, 2019
economy. As I said, he was in the Hous-
ton area, finishing a tour of the John-
son Space Center, when he made an un-
scheduled stop at a Randalls grocery
store before he headed to Miami.
The Houston Chronicle reported at
the time that Yeltsin gawked at the
abundant produce, the selection of
fresh fish, the checkout aisle, and espe-
cially the frozen pudding pops. He
roamed the aisles, according to the
story, stared at the frozen food section,
and took advantage of the free samples
of cheese. He actually talked to some
of the customers there and asked ques-
tions about what they were buying and
how much it cost them. He was
stunned—absolutely stunned—as this
was a far cry from the grocery stores in
the Soviet Union. Yeltsin said: ‘‘Even
the Politburo doesn’t have this kind of
choice, not even Mr. Gorbachev.’’
That day, Boris Yeltsin learned
something that the overwhelming ma-
jority of people in our country already
know—that socialism cannot provide
the bounty, the prosperity, or the
choices that capitalism can.
Leon Aron, who wrote Yeltsin’s biog-
raphy, quoted one of his associates.
He said:
For a long time, on the plane to Miami, he
sat motionless, his head in his hands. ‘‘What
have they done to our poor people?’’ he said,
after a long silence.
He told his fellow countrymen who
were traveling with him that if their
people were to see the conditions in
American supermarkets, ‘‘there would
be a revolution.’’
Make no mistake about it. If the
most radical Democrats in our country
today get their way on the outlandish
socialist policies they are pushing, the
American people will be calling for a
revolution.
The Green New Deal, Medicare for
All, and economic security for those
who are able-bodied yet who are un-
willing to work are policies that are
not going to raise up the most eco-
nomically disadvantaged people in our
country. They are going to pull every-
one else down. Socialism promises not
prosperity for all but what Winston
Churchill called the equal sharing of
miseries.
Though these self-proclaimed demo-
cratic socialists make big promises on
how their policies will deliver fairness
and equality for all Americans, that
could not be further from the truth.
The first thing these policies would do
is to bankrupt our country. These un-
workable economic policies will kill
jobs and outlaw our most reliable, af-
fordable energy sources. ‘‘Medicare for
All’’ will turn into ‘‘Medicare for none’’
when the entire system crashes and
when those who are unwilling to work
will lose any incentive to even try. It
would subsidize a nation of slackers.
This threat of the seductive embrace
of socialism isn’t an exaggeration.
Some of our friends across the aisle are
actually critical of the equal oppor-
tunity, ‘‘pulling yourself up by your
bootstraps,’’ hard-working economic
system that has made our country the
envy of the world. They say: You didn’t
create your success; the government
did—what a bunch of hooey.
Over the weekend, one Democratic
Member of the House who was speaking
at South by Southwest in Austin, my
hometown, referred to capitalism as
‘‘irredeemable’’ and tried to blame cap-
italism for every problem that exists in
our society. I admit that we are not
perfect, but capitalism isn’t the cause
of every problem that exists in our so-
ciety. Of all places to complain about
the perils of capitalism, there is more
than a little irony in her having chosen
Texas—the most successful, free-enter-
prise economy in our Nation.
Instead of talking about this social-
ist, Big Government approach that we
all know will fail, let’s look at how the
Texas model has led my State to be-
come an economic powerhouse and the
envy of the Nation.
We keep taxes low, government
spending restrained, and regulations at
a rational minimum to give people and
the small businesses that provide jobs
the freedom to pursue their dreams and
to prosper. I must say that it is obvious
that it is working. The unemployment
rate in Texas is 4 percent, which is
among the lowest in the Nation. In
Midland—in the Permian Basin, the
heart of the energy boom in my State—
unemployment is 2.1 percent. You are
hard-pressed to find anybody to take
the jobs that do exist because, essen-
tially, everybody who is willing to
work is fully employed. The biggest
problem that job creators have is get-
ting the workers they need. Yet there
is a silver lining for the workers. This
pushes wages higher as businesses com-
pete for their labor.
Last week, the U.S. Census Bureau
and the U.S. Bureau of Economic Anal-
ysis released international trade data
that showed Texas, for the 17th year in
a row, as the top State for exports. We
make stuff, and we sell stuff. We grow
things. We raise cattle and agricultural
products, and we sell them. We are the
top State for exports. In fact, our ex-
ports account for nearly 20 percent of
the exports of the entire Nation. In
2018, that totaled more than $315 bil-
lion of exports—more than double that
of California’s, which is the second
highest exporter. These earnings not
only fuel the economy of our State, but
they boost the entire Nation.
Our export dominance is only part of
the reason Texas is thriving. Together,
with lower taxes and less burdensome
regulation, businesses and dream seek-
ers are drawn to our State, which cre-
ates opportunities for everyone who is
willing to work. Instead of growing
government and increasing the tax bur-
den, we allow businesses—small, me-
dium, and large—to invest in their
workforces, in our communities, and in
our way of life.
In Texas, we believe that less govern-
ment is more. We don’t try to cen-
tralize power in the statehouse. We
give businesses, entrepreneurs, and
hard-working Texans of all back-
grounds, ethnicities, and races the free-
dom by which they can create their
own opportunities. We know that the
more you tax, the more there are gov-
ernment controls and that the more
you regulate, the greater the burden is
on new ideas, investment, and oppor-
tunity.
The socialist policies being espoused
by some members of the Democratic
Party are not going to make our busi-
nesses and our economy stronger or
more competitive. Indeed, history has
shown that these are failed policies
that will stifle innovation, discourage
hard work, and make us look more like
that 1980s Soviet grocery store.
Instead of our grocery stores being
filled with a selection of beautiful
produce, fresh meat, your favorite
snack foods, they will be stocked with
whatever the government says it wants
you to have. Instead of making an ap-
pointment with your doctor when you
are sick, you will wait for Lord knows
how long to get an appointment with a
government-run clinic and have few, if
any, options. Instead of forcing our-
selves out of bed in the morning to go
to work, people who are able but who
don’t want to work will stay in bed,
knowing they can receive food and
medical care that will be subsidized by
your labor and your hard-earned tax
dollars.
That is what these old—but now,
somehow, dressed up as something
new—failed ideas that have been pro-
posed by our Democratic colleagues
would do. Forget government ‘‘of the
people, by the people, and for the peo-
ple.’’ They want a country by the gov-
ernment, for the government—the peo-
ple be damned.
In his autobiography, Yeltsin wrote:
‘‘When I saw those shelves crammed
with hundreds, thousands of cans, car-
tons and goods of every possible sort,
for the first time I felt quite frankly
sick with despair for the Soviet people
. . . that such a potentially super-rich
country as ours has been brought to a
state of such poverty.’’
I pray that our country never sees
that day when it is brought to ruin be-
cause of these 21st century socialists.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 659
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss Senate bill, S. 659, the
Biologic Patent Transparency Act.
This bill would help encourage com-
petition in the prescription drug mar-
ketplace and begin to put an end to the
harmful patent strategies that block
new drugs from coming to market. I
am pleased to be sponsoring this legis-
lation with my friend and colleague
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.005 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1753
March 11, 2019
from Virginia, Senator TIM KAINE, as
well as with Senators PORTMAN, SHA-
HEEN, BRAUN, and STABENOW, all of
whom have joined us as original co-
sponsors.
Prescription drugs are vital to the
health and well-being of Americans, es-
pecially our Nation’s seniors, 90 per-
cent of whom take at least one pre-
scription drug in any given month. De-
veloping these medicines is a lengthy,
expensive, and uncertain process. It
often takes more than a decade and can
cost billions of dollars to bring a new
drug from the laboratory to the pa-
tient. Most drugs fail during the clin-
ical trials. If we want new medicines to
reach consumers who need them, the
companies that invest in this research
and development and take the risks
necessary must see a fair return on
their investment.
To encourage such investments, Con-
gress grants inventors limited periods
of patent protection during which their
products are legally shielded from com-
petition. Rewarding these investments
has proven to be beneficial to many
Americans. The past century could be
termed the ‘‘Age of Miracle Drugs,’’
with discoveries such as insulin and
penicillin, and treatments for cancer,
heart disease, HIV, and other serious
medical conditions. Today, however,
we might well define a ‘‘miracle drug’’
as one that has not doubled in price
since the last refill.
Although our country leads the world
in prescription drug innovation, we
also lead the world in drug spending.
According to one estimate, U.S. spend-
ing on prescription drugs will reach be-
tween $580 billion and $610 billion by
the year 2021. In 2017, Americans spent
more than $330 billion on retail pre-
scription drugs, and nearly one-quarter
of individuals surveyed reported dif-
ficulties paying for the cost of their
prescription medications.
How well I remember standing in the
pharmacy line several months ago be-
hind a couple who were informed by
the pharmacist that their copay would
be $111. The husband turned to his wife
and said: ‘‘Honey, we just can’t afford
that.’’ They then turned around, left
their prescription on the counter, and
left the pharmacy. I asked the phar-
macist how often that happens, and he
told me, ‘‘Every day.’’ That is the kind
of onerous burden too many Americans
are facing, and it’s causing them to
forgo fulfilling a prescription, to
stretch out doses, or simply to choose
to buy the medicine and short them-
selves on food or be late in paying their
rent or mortgage.
Among the most expensive drugs on
the market today are biologics. These
are incredibly promising drugs for the
health and well-being of many Ameri-
cans. They have revolutionized treat-
ment for many serious and life-threat-
ening conditions, from diabetes and
rheumatoid arthritis to cancer and
multiple sclerosis.
Today, fewer than 2 percent of Amer-
icans use biologics, yet biologics ac-
count for nearly 40 percent of total
spending on prescription drugs. Last
year, the Senate Aging Committee,
which I chair and which the Presiding
Officer is a member of, held a hearing
to examine the price increases for one
of these groundbreaking treatments.
HUMIRA, the world’s best-selling pre-
scription drug, is a biologic that was
first approved for the treatment of
rheumatoid arthritis by the Food and
Drug Administration, the FDA, in 2002.
In 2017, U.S. sales of this product gen-
erated an astonishing $12.3 billion in
revenue for the drug’s manufacturer.
Now, HUMIRA is truly a miracle
drug for many patients. It is used to
treat a variety of conditions, ranging
from rheumatoid arthritis to Crohn’s
disease to ulcerative colitis and plaque
psoriasis. So a wide range of diseases
and conditions are responsive to
HUMIRA. According to various reports,
more than 200 patent applications have
been filed for HUMIRA, with nearly 90
percent of those filed after HUMIRA
was first approved by the FDA in 2002.
According to the manufacturer’s
CEO, more than 130 patents are in-
cluded in HUMIRA’s patent portfolio
today. Protections provided by these
patents can block competition and ex-
tend the drug’s market monopoly until
the year 2034. Keep in mind that this is
for a drug that was first approved in
2002. We’re talking about extending the
patents until 2034.
HUMIRA has increased in price yet
again this year, and although
biosimilars have been approved by the
FDA, patent litigation is blamed for
keeping these lower cost alternatives
from reaching the market. And
HUMIRA is not the only biologic to be
protected by such an extensive port-
folio of patents—what we call a ‘‘pat-
ent thicket.’’
Enabling the creation, approval, and
marketing of competitive biological
products must be among our top prior-
ities when we consider ways to reduce
the healthcare costs of Americans.
The Biologic Patent Transparency
Act is an important step Congress can
take to shine light on the patent thick-
ets that protect these biologics and to
stop some of the gaming that has pre-
vented consumers from accessing lower
cost, FDA-approved products.
So what will our bill do? It has three
major components. First, our bill
would require manufacturers to dis-
close to the FDA the web of patents
that protect their approved biologics
from competition by biosimilar manu-
facturers—a process that we already
know works. It has worked remarkably
well for the small molecule drugs that
are governed by the Hatch-Waxman
Act of 1984. Although generics ac-
counted for only 13 percent of U.S. pre-
scriptions immediately before the
Hatch-Waxman Act was passed, today
they make up 90 percent. These
generics often cost 70 to 90 percent less
than the branded product. They have
significantly reduced costs and ex-
panded access to necessary treatments
for Americans. According to one esti-
mate, generics have saved consumers
more than $1.6 trillion in drug costs
over the last decade.
Second, our bill would tackle the pat-
ent strategies that are intentionally
designed to block competition by lim-
iting the enforceability of late-filed
patents against biosimilar manufactur-
ers that have already filed applications
with the FDA.
According to one estimate, over 70 of
the patents covering HUMIRA were ap-
plied for and granted within three
years prior to the expiration of the ini-
tial patents.
So here’s what is happening. A manu-
facturer of a wildly successful drug
sees that its patents are about to ex-
pire and that a competitor—a bio-
similar manufacturer—is on the way to
getting approval by the FDA for its
product. So what that original brand
manufacturer does is make small alter-
ations, frequently, in the product. It
doesn’t change the product in a dra-
matic way. It doesn’t come up with a
brand new medicine, but it changes it
ever so slightly or decides to patent an
aspect of it that was not previously
patented. The whole purpose is to pre-
vent that biosimilar manufacturer
from bringing to market a more afford-
able product that consumers could ac-
cess. That is just wrong. That is not
what patents are intended for. And as I
made clear earlier in my statement, I
support a limited period of exclusivity
for the innovator manufacturer. I
think we should reward that invest-
ment in research and development and
clinical trials, which is often very ex-
pensive. But it is not right for the pat-
ent system to be gamed this way, for it
to be exploited and for last-minute pat-
ents to be filed for the sole purpose of
precluding a competitor from coming
to market with a less expensive, equiv-
alent drug.
Restricting the enforcement of these
late-filed patents that are filed after
the application by the biosimilar man-
ufacturer has been filed with the FDA
will still protect the important invest-
ments made by the manufacturers,
while encouraging the biosimilar man-
ufacturers to bring important innova-
tions to consumers sooner and at a
lower cost.
Finally, the third part of our bill
would require the FDA to regularly
publish specific information related to
approved biologic products, making it
easier for prospective competitors to
evaluate and plan for the development
and introduction of biosimilars.
In addition to the name and patent
information for all approved biological
products, our bill would require the
FDA to publish information including
the drug’s marketing status, applicable
reference products, periods of exclu-
sivity, biosimilar or interchangeable
products, and approved indications for
usage. The FDA will be required to reg-
ularly update this information as well,
so that it is readily available and up-
to-date. So what this will do is allow
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.007 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1754 March 11, 2019
the biosimilar manufacturer to go to
what is known as the ‘‘Purple Book’’ at
the FDA, take a look at the drug it
wishes to compete with, and learn what
existing patents are there, how long
they are going to be in effect, and plan
accordingly.
America’s system of protecting inno-
vation has provided our citizens with
tremendous benefits, especially in the
area of pharmaceuticals. Of that there
can be no doubt. We must provide phar-
maceutical manufacturers with the
ability to recoup their investments,
but at the same time, we cannot be
blind to the costs of these drugs, nor to
cases where patent laws are manipu-
lated to preserve monopolies and pre-
vent lower cost, equivalent drugs from
coming to market. Passing the Bio-
logic Patent Transparency Act is a
major step we can take to put a stop to
the patent-gaming that blocks con-
sumers from accessing lower cost
drugs. I encourage my colleagues to
support this crucial legislation.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
Seeing no one seeking recognition, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Third
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, John Cornyn, Joni Ernst,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Steve Daines,
James E. Risch, John Hoeven, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Thune, Pat Roberts, Jerry Moran.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Third Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM), the
Senator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI),
and the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
MANCHIN), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Mrs. MURRAY), and the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 50,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 41 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Graham
Manchin
Murkowski
Murray
Perdue
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 44.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Georgia is recog-
nized.
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO DICK WILLIAMS
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I will
be very brief for the Senator from
Delaware so I am not taking up too
much time.
I am here to do something very spe-
cial. One of the great things we get to
do is to pay tribute to people who do
great things in our State. We don’t
brag about journalists as much as we
should. They think we are saying bad
things about them, but they are great.
They make the country better. The
fact that we have an accountable
media makes us all great. There are su-
perstars within the media who deserve
acknowledgment, particularly when
they retire from the job. In Georgia,
that has been the case.
Dick Williams, in Atlanta, GA, an-
nounced on Sunday that after 53 years
in print, television, and radio jour-
nalism, he is going to retire. Dick has
covered me over many years. He has
been known as a conservative col-
umnist, but he has gone after me as
many times as he has been for me. He
plays it straight down the middle un-
less it has to do with basketball—and
he loves basketball. He has been chosen
to referee in the conference champion-
ship for the State’s high schools and
has been a great sportsman for George-
town University, for which he recruits
athletes. He himself went to George-
town.
Rebecca, his wife, was in the Georgia
House as a reporter when I was in the
Georgia House years ago. She is a tal-
ented house person who went on to
ABC. She and Dick got married, and
they have two children. They live in
Brookhaven, GA, which is a new city
that was created by the Georgia Legis-
lature to allow independence for a lot
of our cities that had been trapped in-
side the metro area.
His wife has been a reporter of jour-
nalism, and Dick has been a reporter of
journalism. Then Dick bought the
Dunwoody Crier. The Dunwoody Crier
is one of those weekly publications—
neighborhood newspapers—that every-
body loves because it has their kids’
pictures in it, because you can get a
story about your wedding in there, and
because Dick also writes in there some
poignant columns that one would never
read anywhere else.
When he wrote for the Atlanta Jour-
nal-Constitution, he wrote for a news-
paper that was owned by Eugene Pat-
terson, by Ralph McGill, and by many
talented writers. He was in the same
category of spokesman and writer as
those two gentlemen, who were giants,
with McGill’s having won a Pulitzer
Prize.
Dick is one of the most favorite peo-
ple I have ever known who reported on
politics because he was always doing it
for the right reasons. There are
projects that have happened in our
State today because Dick Williams
took the power of the press not to
trash something but to build up the
facts that allowed it to pass. A lot of
times, that doesn’t happen, but when
Dick saw a good deal, he would go for
it, and when he saw a bad deal, he
would go for it. Either way, you could
take his word for it all the time be-
cause he was what is known in the pro-
fession as a straight shooter.
Dick Williams is a very special indi-
vidual to me and my family. He did
1,700 shows called ‘‘The Georgia Gang.’’
Every Sunday, at 8:30 in the morning,
for 30 minutes, every politician in
Georgia watches channel 5 in Atlanta
because that is ‘‘The Georgia Gang.’’ If
you make it by that, your week is
going to be pretty good because they
haven’t skewered you for something
stupid that you did, but if you don’t
make it by that, you are going to have
a tough week.
Dick Williams is the kind of jour-
nalist all of us love—accurate, articu-
late, smart, and caring about what he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:37 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.008 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1755
March 11, 2019
does and the effect it may have. It is a
real pleasure for me to stand on the
floor of the U.S. Senate and say, Dick,
thank you for the 1,700 great 30-minute
shows you have done in your past.
Thank you for all of the straight calls
you made on the basketball court.
Thank you for marrying Rebecca, who
is a wonderful woman. Thank you for
welcoming Lori Geary as your replace-
ment every Sunday morning at 8:30. I
now know, when I get up on Sundays, I
will be going to church not with Dick
Williams but with Lori Geary.
God bless you, Dick. Thanks for your
contribution to Georgia.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
NOMINATION OF PAUL B. MATEY
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
rise today having just voted no on the
motion invoking cloture on Paul Mat-
ey’s nomination to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Now, I know speeches on procedure
rarely make headlines, but I cannot be
silent as the majority shreds long-held
norms for political gain. Once again,
the Republican majority has ignored
the blue-slip process that allows Sen-
ators to either green light or prevent
hearings on judicial nominees from
their home States.
Some Americans may wonder, why
does this matter? Well, the blue-slip
process gives the people a voice
through their elected representatives
on who ultimately renders justice in
their State. Neither Senator BOOKER
nor I have returned blue slips for Mr.
Matey. In fact, Mr. Matey’s confirma-
tion hearing took place before Senator
BOOKER—our State’s voice on the Judi-
ciary Committee—was even extended
the common courtesy of meeting with
Mr. Matey. It wasn’t for lack of trying.
Senator BOOKER requested time with
Mr. Matey, but when he didn’t receive
it, the Judiciary Committee proceeded
anyway.
To add insult to injury, committee
Republicans falsely claimed the White
House had meaningfully consulted with
myself and Senator BOOKER, the home
State Senators, and that is simply not
the case. There never was meaningful
consultation between the White House
and Senator BOOKER or me to identify
a highly qualified consensus nominee—
rather, we were informed about the de-
cision to nominate Mr. Matey—nor did
I receive any offer to meet with Mr.
Matey, not before his nomination, not
after his nomination, not even to date
as we are voting on the Senate floor.
Look, I have come to expect this be-
havior from the Trump White House,
but in the Senate, Democrats always—
always—respected the blue-slip process
during our time in the majority. That
is undeniable.
Before President Trump took office,
only five judges in the past century
were confirmed with only one blue slip,
much less no blue slips. Never has a
Democratic-led Senate ever held a
hearing or confirmed a judicial nomi-
nee without a blue slip from a Repub-
lican Senator. It is shameful.
As long as the President keeps pack-
ing our courts with corporate-friendly
Federalist Society judges, the Repub-
lican majority is willing to destroy a
process that Senator Orrin Hatch—
former chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee—once called ‘‘the last remain-
ing check on the President’s judicial
appointment power.’’
President Trump’s nominees are now
being confirmed at record speed, de-
spite objections from home State Sen-
ators.
My Republican friends claim to be
the party of conservatism. Yet there is
nothing conservative about sweeping
aside century-old norms for political
gain. They have put their party before
country and show no fidelity to the in-
stitutions that have made this country
great.
Aside from the degradation of Senate
norms surrounding Mr. Matey’s nomi-
nation, I have real concerns with his
record. The people of New Jersey have
no appetite for a judge who served in
Gov. Chris Christie’s administration
and was once even called a protege of
our esteemed former Governor.
As deputy chief counsel for Governor
Christie, Mr. Matey said he tried to en-
sure that that administration followed
‘‘the highest standards of propriety,
ethics, and legality.’’
Somehow I question that. Consider
what the people of New Jersey had to
go through during Governor Christie’s
tenure: the Bridgegate scandal, the
defunding of a Rutgers institute that
was run by a Federal nominee, the
spiteful removal of a security detail
from former Governor Codey, and the
rampant mismanagement of
Superstorm Sandy relief contracts,
which forced too many families to live
in trailers for years on end. That is
quite a list—quite a list.
I struggle to believe that Mr. Matey,
the second most senior attorney in the
Christie administration, had no knowl-
edge of this behavior.
During his confirmation hearing, Mr.
Matey could not detail any of the steps
he took to ensure ethics rules were fol-
lowed and declined to offer any descrip-
tion of his supposed ‘‘rigorous system’’
of monitoring and oversight at his con-
firmation hearing.
Apparently, Mr. Matey’s system
wasn’t so rigorous, considering that
Bridgegate—for those of my colleagues
who may not know, although I think
everybody knows, is when the
operatives of the Christie administra-
tion closed access to the George Wash-
ington Bridge from the New Jersey
side, which caused massive—massive—
tieups on the New Jersey side, all to
politically punish the mayor of the
community where the George Wash-
ington Bridge leads from on the New
Jersey side.
Bridgegate amounted to one of the
most egregious abuses of political
power against everyday New Jersey
families in our history. He was sup-
posedly the guy who was making sure
there was a rigorous system of moni-
toring and oversight. Well, I don’t
know how that happened.
I also have concerns about Mr. Mat-
ey’s career after working for Governor
Christie.
During his time as the senior vice
president of University Hospital in
Newark, a nationwide investigation
gave the hospital an F—F, failure—for
patient safety standards. Mr. Matey
has acknowledged that while these
issues were medical in nature, he did
have some personal responsibility to
mitigate risks to patients.
Likewise, some of Mr. Matey’s
writings suggest a hostility toward
plaintiff attorneys who help everyday
Americans take on powerful corporate
interests in class action lawsuits.
In 2005, he authored an article with
now-Supreme Court Justice Neil
Gorsuch that lamented how the Su-
preme Court’s ruling in Dura Pharma-
ceuticals was a missed opportunity to
‘‘curb frivolous fraud claims’’ and dis-
missed plaintiff attorneys as seeking
‘‘free rides to fast riches.’’ In other
words, Paul Matey saw a very narrow
question in the Dura Pharmaceuticals
case as an opening for the Court to
make a sweeping ruling on all securi-
ties class actions. Now, that is what
you call an activist judge.
Matey then goes on to decry the
‘‘enormous toll on the economy’’ secu-
rities fraud litigation takes on corpora-
tions but with little concern for the ac-
tual victims of security fraud.
Most troubling to me is how Mr.
Matey has done zero—I repeat, zero—
pro bono work throughout his legal ca-
reer. His Senate Judiciary question-
naire lacks any record of pro bono rep-
resentation. When he was asked about
it, Mr. Matey claimed his work on be-
half of the State of New Jersey satis-
fied the requirement. I couldn’t dis-
agree more. That is not pro bono work.
You were paid for it.
Cannon 2 of the American Bar Asso-
ciation’s Code of Professional Respon-
sibility explicitly emphasizes the im-
portance of pro bono work. For many
corporate lawyers, representing the un-
derserved is the only way to witness
firsthand how the scales of justice in
this country are too often tipped in
favor of the wealthy and well con-
nected. Pro bono work helps lawyers
cultivate sound judgment and is espe-
cially important to those seeking to
become Federal judges.
Mr. Matey has done nothing to serve
the disadvantaged, and that does not
bode well for the fair administration of
justice, nor does the Republican major-
ity’s disregard for procedures like blue
slips bode well for the Senate’s con-
stitutional role to provide advice and
consent or our responsibility to help
build a judiciary that is responsive to
the needs of the American people in the
courtroom.
For all of these reasons, I urge my
colleagues to oppose confirmation of
Paul Matey to the Third Circuit Court
of Appeals. We are better than this.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.012 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1756 March 11, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The sen-
ior Senator from Delaware.
CENTRAL AMERICA
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, last
month, just hours after Congress
passed bipartisan legislation to fully
fund our Federal Government, I was
privileged to join with Senator JEFF
MERKLEY of Oregon and four Members
of the House of Representatives, in-
cluding our at-large Congresswoman
from Delaware, LISA BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, to lead a congressional delega-
tion to Honduras, Guatemala, and El
Salvador—three countries that are of-
tentimes collectively referred to as the
Northern Triangle.
Our delegation was on a factfinding
mission. We wanted to drill down on
the root causes of illegal immigration
from Central America and assess the
effectiveness of a new approach in re-
cent years to help improve conditions
on the ground in those three countries.
On our flight to Guatemala, several
of us watched as President Trump—in
order to build his long-promised wall—
declared a national emergency, even
though while illegal immigration
spiked in the last couple of months
across our southern border, if you go
back to 2001 through the end of 2018, it
has actually dropped by, believe it or
not, 80 percent.
As former chairman of the Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee, I understand the need for
secure borders, and I have supported ef-
forts to enhance border security over
the last two decades that I have served
in this body.
I have been down to Central America
any number of times with people like
Gen. John Kelly, when he was the
SOUTHCOM commander, with Jeh
Johnson, with RON JOHNSON, both of
whom served as chairman of the Home-
land Security and Governmental Af-
fairs Committee, and John McCain. We
went into that part of the world and
along our border with Mexico to better
understand what our needs are for bor-
der security.
Since 2003, the United States has
spent, believe it or not, $263 billion—
that is almost one-quarter of a trillion
dollars—on border security.
We have doubled the number of bor-
der agents. We have deployed hundreds
of miles of barriers and roads in places
where they are most effective. We have
funded highly sophisticated surveil-
lance aircraft, equipment on drones
and airplanes, helicopters, mile-high
dirigibles, along with motion detectors,
high-speed boats, tunnel detectors, and
a lot more.
The approach on border security at
our border with Mexico needs to be
multilayered, and it is. There are some
places barriers do make sense—a lot of
places, in fact. There are some places
that actually walls—the kind President
Trump has envisioned, think San Diego
and maybe Juarez—make sense, but
there are a lot of other places where
different kinds of barriers make sense.
In some places, roads alongside of bar-
riers make sense.
We have deployed aircraft. We have
deployed fixed-wing aircraft. We have
deployed helicopters. We have deployed
drones. If you just put them out there
by themselves, they are not going to do
much good, but if you put highly so-
phisticated equipment on each of those
platforms, they give us the ability to
see from our border into Mexico as far
as 20, 25 miles in all kinds of weather—
people as small as children who are ap-
proaching our border—and then we
know where to deploy our Border Pa-
trol to meet them and intercept them.
We can put the same kind of sophisti-
cated surveillance equipment on diri-
gibles that go up 5,000 feet, 10,000 feet
into the air. We can put them on tow-
ers that are mobile, towers that are
stationary along the border as well.
We can put people on horseback. We
can put, believe it or not, some of our
Border Patrol officers on horseback.
The reason we do that is, in areas with
high vegetation, the Border Patrol offi-
cer on a horse—a big horse—can see
over the vegetation and pick up people
trying to come across the border ille-
gally.
In some places, boats make sense,
high-speed boats. In other places, boat
ramps make sense. If you don’t have
boat ramps, you can’t put the boat in,
and you don’t have much mobility.
Those are some of the things we have
done in terms of providing better bor-
der security.
The encouraging news is, a lot of it
has worked. A lot of it has worked, but
we could build a wall from the Gulf of
Mexico to the Pacific Ocean, and if
that is all we do, people are still going
to come to this country—not so much
from Mexico. People used to come in
huge numbers from Mexico.
If you look back in the history of the
last especially 15 years, most of the
folks who were coming here illegally
were coming from Mexico across our
borders. Today, it is quite different.
There are more Mexicans going back
into Mexico than there are Mexicans
coming into the United States. Most of
the illegal immigration is not coming
from Mexico. It is coming from Guate-
mala. It is coming from Honduras. It is
coming from El Salvador.
The trek from the Northern Tri-
angle—these countries right here—up
through Mexico to our border is over
1,000 miles, probably closer to 1,500
miles, depending on how you want to
get there.
The spike in immigration we have
seen in the last several months is
mostly from Guatemala’s mountainous
highlands. They have a lot of indige-
nous people, and they don’t have a very
good lifestyle. They have a lot of
malnourishment, a lot of stunted
growth, and not a lot in terms of en-
couragement and economic oppor-
tunity. Let me tell you a quick story of
the reason why these people are trying
to get out of there.
In the southern part of our State,
Sussex County is our biggest county.
We raise enormous numbers of chick-
ens there. For every person that live in
Delaware, there are 300 chickens. I
know the Presiding Officer has a lot of
chickens in his State, too. We have a
lot of folks who come up, including
from Guatemala, and work in poultry
processing plants. They are good work-
ers. They work hard.
We have a nonprofit in southern
Delaware, in Georgetown, DE, called
La Esperanza, which means ‘‘hope.’’
They work with indigenous popu-
lations, illegal and legal migrants, who
have come to southern Delaware. A
couple years ago, I was visiting La
Esperanza, and they told me the story
about a young boy and his younger sis-
ter who fled Guatemala. They came to
the United States and, ultimately, to
Delaware.
This is why they came. The 15-year-
old boy in Guatemala was approached
by gangs in his community. They said:
We want you to join our gang.
He said: Let me talk to my parents
first before I do that.
He knew his parents wouldn’t be too
excited with that. He talked to his par-
ents, who said: You are not going to
join a gang. We don’t want you to do
that. Just tell them no.
He avoided the gang members for a
while, but they finally caught him and
said: Are you going to join our gang?
He said: I talked to my parents, and
they don’t want me to do that, so not
now. I am not going to do it now.
They said: We have a message for you
and your parents. If you don’t join our
gang, somebody in your family is going
to die.
He went home and told his parents,
and their message to him was: Join the
gang. Just don’t do anything stupid.
So he joined the gang. They have to
go through an initiation ritual, and as
part of that ritual, he was called on to
rape his 13-year-old sister. He reported
what was expected of him to his par-
ents, and within a week he and his sis-
ter were on their way out of that coun-
try.
The gangs in these countries, espe-
cially in Guatemala, are entrepre-
neurial. They may be involved in traf-
ficking people. They may be involved
in trafficking drugs. They are really
good at extortion—extorting money
from small businesses and going to a
business and saying: I want you to pay
me protection money. If you provide
protection money, I will see that you
are not harmed.
The merchant says: Who are you pro-
tecting me from?
You are actually being protected
from the guy who is trying to extort
money from you, and if you don’t pay
the money, they will kill you. It is just
like that. As for the rate of extortion
in these three countries from gangs
who do multiple kinds of crimes, that
is one of their favorites.
The reason why people live lives of
misery has a lot to do with us—because
we are addicted to drugs. The drugs are
trafficked through these three coun-
tries, and we are complicit in their
misery.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.014 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1757
March 11, 2019
A Catholic priest testified before the
Homeland Security Committee a cou-
ple of years ago. He described a situa-
tion where our drug addiction makes
life miserable in these three countries.
Then, when they try to get out, we
make it difficult to impossible to get
into our country.
The priest who was our witness that
day said: It is a little bit like the fire
department visiting a house down here.
The fire department goes into the
house. There is no fire. The fire depart-
ment goes into the house, and they
start a fire. When the people try to run
out of the house, the fire department
leaves the house, locks the door, and
drives away.
That is really a pretty good example
of what we have done in Central Amer-
ica. We have lit the fire. We have left
the family in the house. We have
locked the door and driven away. I
think that is morally wrong, and we
can do better than that.
As it turns out, aside from spending
$263 billion along the border for secu-
rity in the last 18 years or so, someone
has come up with a better idea. It is
not a new idea. It is an idea based on
something called Plan Colombia. Plan
Colombia was developed 20 years ago,
when in Bogota, the capital of Colom-
bia, you had the FARC, the leftist gue-
rillas trying to take down the govern-
ment, and drug lords and drug gangs
trying to take down the government of
Colombia. One day, a bunch of gunmen
rounded up the supreme court justices
of Colombia, took them into a room,
and shot them to death.
Colombia was teetering, and there
were questions: Are they going to be
able to make it? Some very brave Co-
lombian leaders stood up and said: We
are not going to let this happen. We are
not going to let these guys take down
our country. Our President then, Bill
Clinton, and a fellow who was chair-
man of the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, Joe Biden, found common
cause with the leaders of Colombia. Ba-
sically, the Colombians developed a
plan that would help to stabilize their
government and enable them to restore
order, rule of law, and economic pros-
perity, and we helped them. I will give
one example of what we did.
The Presiding Officer spent a lot of
time in the military. One of the things
we did is that we provided helicopters
so that the military of Colombia and
the police of Colombia had mobility.
They could go over the mountainous
rivers and country and track down the
bad guys. That is what they did with
our help.
We helped them to figure out how to
collect revenues. They didn’t collect
many revenues, and the wealthy people
of that country didn’t pay much taxes
at all. We taught them how to do a bet-
ter job in revenues and to use that to
help to develop their government insti-
tutions. The people in Colombia did the
heavy lifting. We helped. It is like they
say in Home Depot: You can do it; we
can help.
The Presiding Officer has heard me
say many times in the Environment
and Public Works Committee: Find out
what works, and do more of that.
Plan Colombia worked. It took a long
time. I am an old Navy guy. It reminds
me of trying to change the course of an
aircraft carrier. You stick with it, and
you can make sure to change the
course of an aircraft carrier. It doesn’t
happen fast. Plan Colombia has taken
years to work, but it has worked.
About 3 or 4 years ago, when we were
starting to see a real surge—again, not
from Mexican immigration illegally
into our country but from these three
countries—President Obama called on
Joe Biden to take off-the-shelf Plan
Colombia, and see if it might be pos-
sible to develop a Central American
version of Plan Colombia. The idea
would be to focus on three or four
areas. We would provide some of the
money, but these countries would pro-
vide a lot more because it is their
country. It is not our country, but we
are complicit in their misery. So we
have an obligation to help them—a
moral obligation.
These are the three areas of focus of
the Alliance for Prosperity—the mod-
ern-day, Central American version of
Plan Colombia. One is economic hope
and economic opportunity. That is one.
That is one of the major drivers of peo-
ple getting out of there—lack of eco-
nomic opportunity. Two is violence and
the lack of rule of law. Three is just
corruption. Corruption is endemic in
their Federal government—the na-
tional government—in State and local
governments, and in business. It is just
endemic. Those are the three buckets
that the Alliance for Prosperity was
designed to address. We put up some of
the money. The other countries put up
a good deal more.
One example is El Salvador. For
every dollar we put up, they put up $7.
We used that money in El Salvador to,
among other things, target the cities
with the most crime. We used some of
our resources but a lot more of their
resources. The crime in those 50 cities
is down dramatically in the last couple
of years.
In Honduras the murder rate is down
by about 35 percent. These three coun-
tries vie for murder capital of the
world and have for some time. The
murder rate in Honduras is down by 35
percent or 40 percent. The murder rates
in Guatemala and El Salvador over the
last 3 years are down by half. Would we
still feel comfortable in those neigh-
borhoods? Probably not, but it is better
than what it was.
In Honduras, one of the things they
did is basically that they fired one-
third of their police officers and re-
placed them with vetted units. With
that in mind, they did a much better
job on extortion. They did a much bet-
ter job on kidnapping and actually
bringing to trial and sentencing the
folks who are committing the crimes.
USAID is working down there in San
Salvador, the capital of El Salvador,
and in the capital of Guatemala, cre-
ating almost like tech centers where
young entrepreneurs can start their
own businesses. They get some help
from us and some coaching from us,
and they are starting to lead an eco-
nomic recovery.
These are beautiful countries—lush
and with beautiful beaches in some
places. So they are attractive for tour-
ism. They have, for the most part, very
fertile soil, and with the right kind of
help, coaching, and mentoring, they
can do a much better job feeding them-
selves and exporting a lot of what they
raise.
Things are starting to happen. Again,
it is like that aircraft carrier I talked
about. It is slow at first and, then,
more perceptible as time goes by.
In San Salvador, the capital of El
Salvador, we used Federal—American—
money in order to leverage the Howard
G. Buffett Foundation to go—literally,
in the middle of the city—into 17 acres
of what used to be a beautiful park and
was later riddled with crime, and to
clean it up and make it beautiful again
for the people of that city.
One multinational company has
come down into one of these countries
and put millions of dollars into cre-
ating a DNA facility to help in solving
crimes.
Little by little, things are getting
better. There are still problems in Gua-
temala and among the highlands indig-
enous people who are still trying to get
out of there. Ninety percent of the im-
migration right now is out of that part
of Guatemala.
The last thing I will say is this. They
just had an election in El Salvador 4
weeks ago. The current President is a
75-year-old guerilla leader who was a
close friend of Venezuela’s leader and
was at Maduro’s inauguration a month
or so ago. He is friendly with the Chi-
nese and friendly with the Cubans. He
is leaving. He is stepping down as the
President of that country in a couple of
months.
Who is going to succeed him? It is
the 38-year-old mayor of San Salvador,
who gets economic development. He is
free of corruption. He is someone who
has a good relationship with our em-
bassy there, and he is highly regarded
by our folks. He is an honest guy, full
of energy. In his campaign, he was the
first candidate for President in the his-
tory of the country who has gotten
over 50 percent. It didn’t have to go to
a runoff. It is an amazing development.
He harnessed social media to get elect-
ed.
Meanwhile, there is going to be a
Presidential election in Guatemala in
June. Jimmy Morales is the President
there. He is somebody whom Vice
President Biden and I tried to mentor.
Initially, it started out very promising.
Then, more recently, there are real
concerns about corruption involving
his family. His time as President will
expire about the middle of this year,
but in Guatemala the three
frontrunners to run for president are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.016 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1758 March 11, 2019
all women. The person who is believed
to be the frontrunner of them all is a
woman named Thelma Aldana, who is
the immediate past Attorney General.
She is tough on crime and tough on
corruption. She has been in this coun-
try some this month and had the op-
portunity to talk with Vice President
Biden to get some encouragement from
him.
Joe Biden is beloved in Delaware and
in some other places around the coun-
try, but they really love him there be-
cause he has been interested in root
causes—not just in treating the symp-
toms of the problems and challenges on
the border but actually helping to ad-
dress the root causes.
The fellow who has just been elected
President of El Salvador is a 38-year-
old millennial. His social media people
have now started to help the former
Attorney General who is running for
President of Guatemala.
As the Presiding Officer and my col-
leagues know, the most important in-
gredient in the success of any organiza-
tion I have ever seen is leadership. It is
leadership.
We are seeing a changing of the
guard not only in terms of age but also
in terms of just where they come from,
on a scale of 1 to 100.
The last thing I want to mention—if
I could find my spot here in my notes—
is that none of this is easy, but it basi-
cally says that we have a moral obliga-
tion to the folks down here. We make
their lives miserable because of our
drug addiction, and we ought to help
them. They have to do most of the
work, but we have to help them. We
can’t just help them for a couple of
weeks or a couple of months or a cou-
ple of years, as we found out in Colom-
bia; we have to stick with this a good
deal longer to help change the culture
of these countries.
I am encouraged to say that change
is happening, and we should keep it
going. There is a sense of optimism
that is beginning to emerge in these
countries. I think there are some rea-
sons to be encouraged that a plan mod-
eled after Plan Colombia and tailored
especially for this part of the world can
actually succeed. If we don’t give up
and especially if they don’t give up, it
very well will.
P.S. The cost of actually capturing
somebody on our border who is starting
to come in illegally, detaining them,
putting them in a holding camp or a
detention center, feeding them, pro-
viding healthcare, and eventually de-
porting them and sending them back
down to wherever they came from, I
am told is $27,000 a person—$27,000 a
person.
These people love their countries,
and given a chance, they would much
rather stay down there. They would
much rather stay down there. They
might like to come up to visit and
maybe do some work sometime and go
back home. But they want to have a
decent life. Frankly, if we will help
them realize that, they will stay down
there. They may come up as tourists,
and maybe we can go down there as
tourists. We heard that over and over.
The last thing we heard down there is
that they love America. They love
America. They are mindful of what we
are trying to do to help them. They are
grateful for the help we are providing.
I know a bunch of them. I met a lot of
them down there. Some of them live in
my State. For the most part, they are
good and decent people. They deserve
our help. I am proud of the support this
Congress has provided for the last 4
years for their lives and prosperity. My
hope is that we will continue to do that
and continue to use that money to le-
verage a lot of good work not only for
those countries but for nonprofits,
NGOs, foundations, and private compa-
nies, and that together we will get the
job done. I am encouraged.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I really want to say to my friend,
Senator JEFF MERKLEY, who went down
to this part of the world any number of
times as a young man and went back
again last month still as a young man,
that he has provided a lot of great in-
sight. It has been a joy going with him
and now working with him on this as
we go forward.
I yield the floor.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The Senator from Arkansas.
THE AMERICAN LEGION’S CENTENNIAL
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, the
American Legion, the Nation’s largest
wartime veterans service organization,
is celebrating its centennial this year.
I rise today to recognize this mile-
stone.
For the past 100 years, the American
Legion has been a leading advocate for
veterans and their families. The Legion
has played a role in crafting legisla-
tion, shaping policies, expanding serv-
ices, and creating generations of civic-
minded Americans.
Founded in Paris following World
War I, the American Legion was offi-
cially chartered by Congress on Sep-
tember 16, 1919. Since its founding, Le-
gionnaires have proudly worked to
strengthen our country and our com-
munities, while upholding the promise
our country made to those who have
worn our Nation’s uniform.
The list of achievements that the Le-
gion has helped fight for is long and in-
cludes the creation of the U.S. Vet-
erans’ Bureau in 1924, the forerunner of
the Veterans’ Administration. Decades
later, the Legion was active in ele-
vating to Cabinet-level status the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs.
Following the American Legion’s
lead, Congress adopted a flag code to
formally lay out the protocol for car-
rying and displaying our Nation’s ban-
ner. The Legion continues to actively
support the constitutional amendment
to protect the American flag from
desecration.
During World War II, the American
Legion drafted legislation that would
become the GI bill. Legionnaires were
instrumental in securing passage of
this landmark legislation that helped
returning troops further their edu-
cation, buy houses, and start busi-
nesses. It also established hiring privi-
leges for veterans.
The Legion continues its strong ad-
vocacy for improving these and other
benefits. Its efforts were vital in the
passage of the Post-9/11 GI bill and the
enhancement measure passed in 2017,
which bears the name of a former
American Legion commander, the
Harry W. Colmery Veterans Edu-
cational Assistance Act.
After a century of service, Legion-
naires remain just as committed to ad-
vocating on behalf of our veterans
today.
Last month, I met with members of
the American Legion Department of
Arkansas who were visiting the Na-
tion’s Capital to voice their support for
the organization’s 2019 priorities. This
includes supporting the VA’s efforts to
reduce veteran suicides, improving
healthcare for women veterans, fight-
ing veteran homelessness, ensuring GI
bill benefits, and ensuring benefits to
veterans who were exposed to Agent
Orange. I am optimistic about the
progress we will make on these impor-
tant issues because of the excellent and
active work of the American Legion
Department of Arkansas, which has
more than 10,000 members in nearly 150
posts throughout the State.
The Arkansas Department of the
American Legion was incorporated on
May 12, 1919. National headquarters
records show it was the first incorpora-
tion of the organization in the United
States. There is a proud history of in-
volvement in all corners of the State,
ranging from the annual fallen heroes
ceremony to the Law Enforcement Of-
ficer of the Year program.
I have had the privilege of partici-
pating in Legion events around the
State, including honoring the Arkan-
sans who paid the ultimate sacrifice,
celebrating the milestones of the posts,
and recognizing young Arkansans who
have been distinguished by Legion-
naires. The Legion rightfully prides
itself as being actively involved in the
community and teaching Arkansas
youth how to be good citizens. Through
a variety of programs and activities—
Boys and Girls State Programs, sup-
port of the Boy Scouts of America, and
the American Legion Baseball Pro-
gram, to name a few—it encourages
fostering a dedication to civic responsi-
bility, promoting American values, and
serving others.
For 100 years, the American Legion
has worked tirelessly to improve the
lives of veterans and their families. In
honor of their centennial, Congress ap-
proved minting a coin to recognize its
milestone. I was a proud cosponsor of
the bill and support its passage to com-
memorate the legacy of the American
Legion and the thousands of men and
women who have supported its mission
and upheld the four pillars of its found-
ing: veterans affairs and rehabilitation,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.017 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1759
March 11, 2019
national security, Americanism, and
children and youth.
As a member of the Senate Veterans’
Affairs Committee, I have seen up close
Legionnaires’ and the American Legion
Auxiliary’s dedication and the results
their efforts have produced in Arkansas
and across our entire country. I am
proud to recognize the American Le-
gion on its 100 years of advocacy and
celebrate this century of service with
the 2 million members who are making
a difference each day as Legionnaires.
f
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that all postcloture
time on the Matey nomination expire
at 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March 12; fur-
ther, that if confirmed, the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table and the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session for a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak for up to 10
minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, on
International Women’s Day, we reflect
on the enormous contributions women
make worldwide to their communities
and their countries across every aspect
of society including justice, politics,
culture, peacebuilding, the economy,
and national security. On this day, we
also recognize and recommit to fight-
ing on behalf of the many women
whose voices governments seek to si-
lence. Around the world, women take
enormous risks to advance the rights
of their fellow citizens and to promote
the principles of freedom of expression,
religion, and assembly. They fight for
rights to access education and
healthcare, and they fight discrimina-
tion, corruption, and violence. For
their words and for their actions, all
too often, governments turn these
women into political prisoners.
Today, I want to highlight just a tiny
fraction of the countless number of
women and girls held behind bars un-
justly. Similarly, unfortunately, the
repressive governments detaining these
women are just a small fraction of the
governments around the world that
lock up women for exercising their fun-
damental freedoms.
Just last week, the government of
Saudi Arabia announced that it would
put on trial its country’s leading wom-
en’s rights activists who have been in
prison without charges since May 2018.
The crackdown on these activists
began just weeks ahead of the much-
anticipated lifting of the ban on women
driving, one of the very causes for
which many of the detained activists
had campaigned. While some were
quickly released, others remain impris-
oned. They include Loujain al-
Hathloul, Aziza al-Yousef, Eman al-
Nafjan, Nouf Abdelaziz, Mayaa al-
Zahrani, Samar Badawi, Nassima al-
Saada, Hatoon al-Fassi, Shadan al-
Onezi, and Amal al-Harbi. Credible re-
ports indicate that Saudi interrogators
tortured at least four of the women, in-
cluding with electric shocks and
whippings and sexual harassment and
assault.
In the Philippines, Senator Leila de
Lima, a brave champion of human
rights, launched an investigation into
extrajudicial executions that began
shortly after President Duterte took
office in 2016. As one of the only leaders
bold enough to oppose President
Duterte’s ‘‘war on drugs,’’ she has faced
prolonged arbitrary detention, accord-
ing to Human Rights Watch and Am-
nesty International. President Duterte
has sought to silence her courageous
voice as she spoke out against wide-
spread human rights violations, includ-
ing thousands of extrajudicial execu-
tions of mostly poor and marginalized
people.
In Egypt, Hanan Badr el-Din, a
human rights defender and cofounder
of the Families of the Forcibly Dis-
appeared Association, was detained on
May 6, 2017, at Qanatar prison while
visiting an individual who had been
forcibly disappeared. She started her
activism following the forced dis-
appearance of her husband in 2013. She
suffers from a serious genetic disorder,
and her health is rapidly deteriorating.
China is responsible for some of the
most grave human rights abuses, in-
cluding of women. China has impris-
oned hundreds of thousands of Uighur
women in detention camps across its
northwest region. These women are
forced to renounce their Muslim reli-
gion and Uighur language and memo-
rize Chinese propaganda. Forced labor,
torture, and death are common. Thou-
sands of children have been separated
from their mothers and fathers and
placed in a separate network of orphan-
ages. One husband of a Uighur woman
told Human Rights Watch: ‘‘My wife
was about to go back overseas but they
took her passport. And when she went
to ask to get her passport back, they
told her she needs to be subjected to
political education for 10 days, and
then they would let her go. That was
on July 20, 2017. Since then, she’s been
in a political education camp.’’ The
family of Guligeina Tashimaimaiti, a
Uighur PhD student who was last seen
in December 2017 when she returned
from studying in Malaysia, for exam-
ple, fears she is in detention and at
risk of torture and other ill treatment.
China has also targeted Tibetan Bud-
dhist nuns. The government expelled
hundreds of nuns in 2017 from Larung
Gar in Sichuan, the world’s largest Ti-
betan Buddhist center. Their homes
were demolished; they were barred
from entering other monasteries, and
faced detention, harassment, and
abuse.
In Eritrea, Aster Fissehatsion has
been held incommunicado without
charge or trial since September 2001.
Her whereabouts, 17 years later, are
still not known. Aster Fissehatsion
was arrested together with 10 other
members of a group of political dis-
sidents known as the Group of 15, or G–
15, including her former husband,
former Vice President and foreign min-
ister of Eritrea, Mahmoud Ahmed
Sheriffo.
Perhaps, most tragically, this is just
a snapshot of some of the brave women
who dare to speak up for fundamental
rights and values.
So on this International Women’s
Day, as we reflect on the achievements
of women and reflect on the work that
remains to be done, I call on all of us
to redouble our efforts to free women
political prisoners. Governments have
the responsibility to promote the safe-
ty, well-being, and fundamental rights
of their citizens. I call on governments
who are unjustly detaining, harassing,
and torturing women for exercising
their fundamental rights to imme-
diately release these politically moti-
vated detentions. As they continue to
struggle, let us all take up the mantle
of their cause.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING MIAMI TOUR
COMPANY
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship, each week I
recognize a small business that exem-
plifies the unique American entrepre-
neurial spirit. Today, it is my distinct
pleasure to name Miami Tour Company
as the Senate Small Business of the
Week.
Founded in 2002, Miami Tour Com-
pany has quickly become a premier
provider of tours and activities in
south Florida. Husband and wife, Gus
and Michelle Moore, founded the com-
pany based on the principle of pro-
viding the best customer experience
possible. Gus and Michelle met while
working at a restaurant and bonded
over a shared passion for making sure
that visitors to their home State have
a great experience. After serving thou-
sands of hungry patrons and learning
how to make visitors to Miami as
happy as possible, Gus and Michelle de-
cided to start a business. With their
combined knowledge of the area and a
knack for anticipating their cus-
tomer’s needs, a tour company was the
perfect fit. With their savings from
working at the restaurant, the couple
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.019 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1760 March 11, 2019
bought a tour bus, and the Miami Tour
Company was born.
Seventeen years later, Miami Tour
Company has grown to transport 35,000
passengers annually and have served
more than 600,000 clientele. Their fleet
now includes motorcoaches, mini-
buses, vans, SUVs, shuttle buses, and
boat tours. The company’s local guides
run day tours through Key West, Or-
lando, the Everglades, and Miami
Beach. They have also instituted a
GPS-guided system in their tour buses
that triggers high-quality digital voice
recordings at locations of interest,
making them the only tour company in
Florida to offer this technology. To ex-
pand their customer base, the company
has begun offering the recordings in
Spanish, Portuguese, Mandarin,
French, Italian, German, and Russian,
allowing visitors from around the
world to enjoy the attractions that
Florida has to offer.
On top of providing enjoyable and in-
formative tours, Miami Tour Company
gives back to their community. They
guide local elementary students on free
historical bus tours throughout Miami
and offer students free eco-tourism
trips to the Everglades. They also give
back to their community by providing
complimentary travel charters for ac-
tivities for the children and families of
Sophia’s Hope. In addition, they donate
portions of their proceeds to the Miami
Beach Holocaust Memorial and the
Miami Beach Botanical Gardens.
Miami Tour Company has been a true
small business success story. Their
dedication to hospitality has been rec-
ognized with an A-plus rating from the
Better Business Bureau and a Certifi-
cate of Excellence from online review-
ers.
Gus and Michelle’s commitment to
an exceptional customer experience
represents the standard of hospitality
with which Florida small businesses
are known for. Companies like Miami
Tour Company are one of the many
reasons that visitors enjoy south Flor-
ida and keep coming back. I would like
to congratulate Gus, Michelle, and all
of the employees at Miami Tour Com-
pany for being named the Senate Small
Business of the Week. I wish them good
luck and look forward to watching
their continued growth and success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
BUDGET OF THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020—PM 5
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred jointly, pur-
suant to the order of January 30, 1975,
as modified by the order of April 11,
1986; to the Committees on the Budget;
and Appropriations:
To the Congress of the United States:
In just over 2 years, together with
the American people, we have launched
an unprecedented economic boom.
Since I was elected, we have created
more than 5 million new jobs, including
half a million manufacturing jobs.
Nearly 5 million Americans have been
lifted off food stamps. Unemployment
is the lowest in nearly half a century.
African American unemployment, His-
panic American unemployment, and
Asian American unemployment rates
have all reached historic lows. Our Na-
tion is experiencing an economic mir-
acle—and it is improving the lives of
all our citizens.
We have achieved these extraor-
dinary gains thanks to historic tax
cuts and an unprecedented regulatory
reduction campaign, through
unleashing American energy produc-
tion, systematically fixing bad trade
deals, and remaining absolutely com-
mitted to putting the needs of the
American worker first.
My Administration worked with the
Congress to pass unprecedented legisla-
tion to confront the opioid crisis, a
sweeping new farm bill,
groundbreaking criminal justice re-
form, major investments to rebuild the
military, and historic Department of
Veterans Affairs reforms to ensure that
our great veterans have access to high
quality healthcare.
We are also making our communities
safer. To target violent crime, my Ad-
ministration has increased support for
Federal, State, and local law enforce-
ment We have added nearly 200 new
violent crime prosecutors across the
United States. And last year, the De-
partment of Justice prosecuted more
violent crimes than ever before. As a
result, violent crime is falling.
My Administration is confronting
the national security and humani-
tarian crisis on our southern border,
and we are accepting the moral duty to
create an immigration system that
protects the lives and jobs of our citi-
zens. This includes our obligation to
the millions of immigrants living in
the United States today who followed
the rules and respected our laws.
In the 20th century, America saved
freedom, transformed science, and de-
fined the middle class standard of liv-
ing. Now we must write the next chap-
ter of the great American adventure,
turbo-charging the industries of the fu-
ture and establishing a new standard of
living for the 21st century. An amazing
quality of life for all of our citizens is
within reach. We can make our com-
munities safer, our families stronger,
our culture richer, our faith deeper,
and our middle class bigger and more
prosperous than ever before.
We are now addressing our challenges
from a position of strength. My 2020
Budget builds on the tremendous
progress we have made and provides a
clear roadmap for the Congress to
bring Federal spending and debt under
control. We must protect future gen-
erations from Washington’s habitual
deficit spending.
This year, I asked most executive de-
partments and agencies to cut their
budgets by at least 5 percent. In addi-
tion to reflecting those reductions, my
Budget invests in the following prior-
ities:
Securing our Borders and Protecting
our Sovereignty. As President, my
highest duty is the defense of our Na-
tion—which is why finishing the border
wall is an urgent national priority. All
who are privileged to hold elected of-
fice must work together to create an
immigration system that promotes
wage growth and economic oppor-
tunity, while preventing drugs, ter-
rorism, and crime from entering the
United States. Immigration policy,
like all policy, must serve the interests
of Americans living here today—in-
cluding the millions of new Americans
who came here legally to join our na-
tional family. The American people are
entitled to a strong border that stops
illegal immigration, and a responsible
visa policy that protects our security
and our workforce. My Budget con-
tinues to reflect these priorities, and I
look forward to working with the Con-
gress to finish the border wall and
build a safe, just, and lawful immigra-
tion system that will benefit genera-
tions of Americans to come.
Preserving Peace through Strength.
A strong military, fully integrated
with our allies and all our instruments
of power, enables our Nation to deter
war, preserve peace, and, if necessary,
defeat aggression against United
States interests. To that end, my
Budget requests $750 billion for na-
tional defense, an increase of $34 bil-
lion, or 5 percent, from the 2019 enacted
level. The Budget funds the National
Security Strategy and National De-
fense Strategy, building on the major
gains we have already made through-
out the world.
Protecting our Veterans. Our Na-
tion’s brave warriors and defenders de-
serve the best care America has to
offer—both during and after their ac-
tive service. Last year, I signed into
law the historic VA MISSION Act of
2018 to reform and transform the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs
healthcare system into an integrated
system for the 21st century. My Budget
fully funds all requirements for vet-
erans’ healthcare services and provides
additional funding to implement the
VA MISSION Act of 2018.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:30 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR6.018 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1761
March 11, 2019
Investing in America’s Students and
Workers. To help protect taxpayer dol-
lars, my Budget continues my request
to create an educational finance sys-
tem that requires postsecondary insti-
tutions that accept taxpayer funds to
have skin in the game through a stu-
dent loan risk-sharing program. My
Administration will also continue to
seek expanded Pell Grant eligibility for
high-quality, short-term programs in
high-demand fields, so that students
and workers can quickly gain valuable
skills at a more affordable cost and ob-
tain family-sustaining jobs. We must
create and invest in better opportuni-
ties for our Nation’s students and job
seekers, while ensuring that we do so
in a more efficient and effective man-
ner.
Research for Childhood Cancers.
Many childhood cancers have not seen
new therapies in decades. My Budget
initiates a new effort that invests $500
million over the next 10 years to sup-
port this critical life-saving research.
Defeating HIV/AIDS in America. The
HIV epidemic still plagues our Nation,
with more than 38,000 Americans in-
fected every year. In response, my
Budget provides $291 million to the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices to defeat the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
The goal is to eliminate most new in-
fections within 5 years (75 percent) and
nearly all within 10 years (90 percent).
This initiative will focus efforts on di-
agnosis, prevention, and treatment ef-
forts in the locations where intense
transmissions of the virus are driving
the epidemic.
Confronting the Opioid Epidemic. My
Budget continues historic levels of
funding for our law enforcement, pre-
vention, and treatment efforts to com-
bat the opioid and drug addiction epi-
demic.
Supporting Working Families. Amer-
ica must also lead in supporting the
families of our workforce so that they
can balance the competing demands of
work and family. My Budget includes a
one-time, mandatory investment of $1
billion for a competitive fund aimed at
supporting under-served populations
and stimulating employer investments
in child care for working families. My
Administration has also pledged to pro-
vide paid parental leave to help work-
ing parents, and we are committed to
partnering with the Congress to enact
this important policy.
We must always strive to uphold our
oaths to promote and protect the per-
sonal and economic freedoms the Con-
stitution guarantees to us all.
We must work together to renew the
bonds of love and loyalty that link us
to one another—as friends, as citizens,
as neighbors, as patriots, and as Ameri-
cans.
My Budget reflects my Administra-
tion’s commitment to these worthy
goals as it seeks to make the United
States of America wealthier, stronger,
safer, and greater for every American
family and neighborhood.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, March 11, 2019.
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
S. 49. An act to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in North
Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet
Center Outstation.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 729. A bill to prohibit the use of funds to
Federal agencies to establish a panel, task
force, advisory committee, or other effort to
challenge the scientific consensus on climate
change, and for other purposes.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, March 11, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 49. An act to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in North
Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet
Center Outstation.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–530. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Methoxyfenozide; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 9985–06–OCSPP) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 7, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–531. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘S–Metolachlor; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9983–79–OCSPP) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on March
7, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–532. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Manpower and Re-
serve Affairs) performing the duties of the
Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and
Readiness), transmitting, pursuant to law, a
notice of additional time required to com-
plete a report on the development of an Inte-
grated Lodging Pilot Program (ILPP); to the
Committees on Armed Services; Appropria-
tions; and Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–533. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Availability of DoD Direc-
tives, DoD Instructions, DoD Publications,
and Changes’’ (RIN0790–AK48) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on
March 6, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–534. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Retired Serviceman’s Fam-
ily Protection Plan (RSFPP)’’ (RIN0790–
AK31) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 6, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–535. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the con-
tinuation of the national emergency origi-
nally declared in Executive Order 13660 on
March 6, 2014, with respect to Ukraine; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–536. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the continuation of the na-
tional emergency originally declared in exec-
utive order 13288 on March 6, 2003, with re-
spect to the actions and policies of certain
members of the Government of Zimbabwe
and other persons to undermine Zimbabwe’s
democratic processes or institutions; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–537. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Michigan; Infra-
structure SIP Requirements for the 2012
PM2.5 NAAQS; Multistate Transport’’ (FRL
No. 9990–41–Region 5) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 7, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–538. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Michigan; Revi-
sions to Part 1 General Provisions Rules’’
(FRL No. 9990–42–Region 5) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on
March 7, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–539. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; South Carolina;
Update to Materials Incorporated by Ref-
erence’’ (FRL No. 9990–38–Region 4) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 7, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–540. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Arizona;
Nonattainment Plan for the Miami SO2 Non-
attainment Area’’ (FRL No. 9990–40–Region 4)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 7, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–541. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of State Plans for Des-
ignated Facilities and Pollutants; Kansas;
Sewage Sludge Incineration Units’’ (FRL No.
9989–73–Region 7) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 7, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–542. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR6.019 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1762 March 11, 2019
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Oil and Hazardous Sub-
stances Pollution Contingency Plan; Na-
tional Priorities List: Partial Deletion of the
Robintech, Inc./National Pipe Co. Superfund
Site’’ (FRL No. 9990–15–Region 2) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 7, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–543. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulations and Disclosure Law
Division, Customs and Border Protection,
Department of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Extension of Import Restrictions on
Archaeological and Ecclesiastical Ethno-
logical Materials from Honduras’’ (RIN1515–
AE45) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–544. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(d) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to Japan, to
support the manufacture, integration, as-
sembly, operation, training, testing, and
maintenance of AN/ARC–164 (RT–1145 and
RT–1504) UHF Receiver/Transmitters and re-
lated radio equipment (Transmittal No.
DDTC 18–094); to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
EC–545. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, the certification of a proposed li-
cense for the manufacture of significant
military equipment and the export of defense
articles, including technical data and de-
fense services, abroad to Turkey to support
the manufacture, sales, and maintenance
training of all variants of Armored Combat
Vehicle (ACV) Family of Vehicles, Sharp-
shooter and 40/50 Turrets, the remotely fired
.50 caliber Cupola, and modernization kits
and materials in the amount of $50,000,000 or
more (Transmittal No. DDTC 17–141); to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–546. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions Lists of
Colt M16A4 5.56mm fully-automatic rifles to
Oman in the amount of $1,000,000 or more
(Transmittal No. DDTC 18–006); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
EC–547. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to Norway to
support the manufacture, development, inte-
gration, and support for Air-to-Air Pylons
for the F–35 Lightning II Aircraft for end-use
by the United States in the amount of
$100,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC
18–088); to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
EC–548. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a pe-
tition to add workers who were employed at
the Y–12 Plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to
the Special Exposure Cohort; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–549. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Solicitor, Federal Labor Relations
Authority, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report relative to a vacancy in the position
of General Counsel, Federal Labor Relations
Authority, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 6, 2019; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–550. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Transportation, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, an annual report relative to ac-
complishments made under the Airport Im-
provement Program for fiscal year 2017; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–551. A communication from the Deputy
Chief, Mobility Division, Federal Commu-
nications Commission, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘In
the Matter of Service Rules for the 698–746,
747–762, and 777–792 Bands’’ ((WT Docket No.
06–150) (DA 19–77)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 6, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON for the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
* Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security.
* Joseph V. Cuffari, of Arizona, to be In-
spector General, Department of Homeland
Security.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. ROUNDS, and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 733. A bill to protect the investment
choices of investors in the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr.
DAINES):
S. 734. A bill to leverage Federal Govern-
ment procurement power to encourage in-
creased cybersecurity for Internet of Things
devices, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
UDALL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. KING,
and Ms. WARREN):
S. 735. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to require that return in-
formation from tax-exempt organizations be
made available in a searchable format and to
provide the disclosure of the identity of con-
tributors to certain tax-exempt organiza-
tions; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 736. A bill proposing an amendment to
the Constitution of the United States to
clarify the authority of Congress and the
States to regulate corporations, limited li-
ability companies, and other corporate enti-
ties established by the laws of any State, the
United States, or any foreign state; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Mrs. CAP-
ITO, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, and Mrs. FISCH-
ER):
S. 737. A bill to direct the National Science
Foundation to support STEM education re-
search focused on early childhood; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. Res. 102. A resolution designating April
2019 as ‘‘Second Chance Month’’; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. Res. 103. A resolution designating March
27, 2019, as ‘‘National Assistive Technology
Awareness Day’’; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 25
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs.
FISCHER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
25, a bill to reserve any amounts for-
feited to the United States Govern-
ment as a result of the criminal pros-
ecution of Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman
Loera (commonly known as ‘‘El
Chapo’’), or of other felony convictions
involving the transportation of con-
trolled substances into the United
States, for security measures along the
Southern border, including the comple-
tion of a border wall.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 91, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to authorize per
diem payments under comprehensive
service programs for homeless veterans
to furnish care to dependents of home-
less veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 92
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Mississippi (Mr.
WICKER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
92, a bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5,
United States Code, to provide that
major rules of the executive branch
shall have no force or effect unless a
joint resolution of approval is enacted
into law.
S. 94
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 94, a bill to amend the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to
facilitate the establishment of addi-
tional or expanded public target ranges
in certain States.
S. 114
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR6.007 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1763
March 11, 2019
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 114, a bill to amend title 31,
United States Code, to provide that ac-
tivities relating to the training and
readiness of the reserve components of
the Armed Forces during a lapse in ap-
propriations shall constitute voluntary
services that may be accepted by the
United States.
S. 211
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 211, a bill to amend the
Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to secure
urgent resources vital to Indian vic-
tims of crime, and for other purposes.
S. 237
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 237, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to permit
nurse practitioners and physician as-
sistants to satisfy the documentation
requirement under the Medicare pro-
gram for coverage of certain shoes for
individuals with diabetes.
S. 272
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 272, a bill to establish the policy
of the United States regarding the no-
first-use of nuclear weapons.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII
of the Social Security Act to ensure
more timely access to home health
services for Medicare beneficiaries
under the Medicare program.
S. 317
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
317, a bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to provide States
with the option of providing coordi-
nated care for children with complex
medical conditions through a health
home.
S. 506
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 506, a bill to support
State, Tribal, and local efforts to re-
move access to firearms from individ-
uals who are a danger to themselves or
others pursuant to court orders for this
purpose.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 518, a bill to
amend title XVIII of the Social Secu-
rity Act to provide for Medicare cov-
erage of certain lymphedema compres-
sion treatment items as items of dura-
ble medical equipment.
S. 546
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 546, a bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes.
S. 554
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 554, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to take actions nec-
essary to ensure that certain individ-
uals may update the burn pit registry
with the cause of death of a registered
individual, and for other purposes.
S. 559
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 559, a bill to amend the
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
to provide leave because of the death of
a son or daughter.
S. 580
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
580, a bill to amend the Act of August
25, 1958, commonly known as the
‘‘Former Presidents Act of 1958’’ , with
respect to the monetary allowance pay-
able to a former President, and for
other purposes.
S. 590
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
590, a bill to award Congressional Gold
Medals to Katherine Johnson and Dr.
Christine Darden, to posthumously
award Congressional Gold Medals to
Dorothy Vaughan and Mary Jackson,
and to award a Congressional Gold
Medal to honor all of the women who
contributed to the success of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration during the Space Race.
S. 634
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr.
LANKFORD) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 634, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to establish tax
credits to encourage individual and
corporate taxpayers to contribute to
scholarships for students through eligi-
ble scholarship-granting organizations
and eligible workforce training organi-
zations, and for other purposes.
S. 642
At the request of Mr. ALEXANDER, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) were added
as cosponsors of S. 642, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal to Master
Sergeant Rodrick ‘‘Roddie’’ Edmonds
in recognition of his heroic actions
during World War II.
S. 661
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 661, a bill to provide
for enhanced protections for vulnerable
alien children, and for other purposes.
S. 662
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
662, a bill to provide access to counsel
for unaccompanied alien children.
S. 663
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
663, a bill to clarify the status and en-
hance the effectiveness of immigration
courts, and for other purposes.
S. 665
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. BOOKER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 665, a bill to reduce the
number of preventable deaths and inju-
ries caused by underride crashes, to im-
prove motor carrier and passenger
motor vehicle safety, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 690
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 690, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to make the child
tax credit fully refundable, establish an
increased child tax credit for young
children, and for other purposes.
S. 692
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
692, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise
tax on medical devices.
S. 706
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 706, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to require insti-
tutions of higher education to disclose
hazing incidents, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 717
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 717, a bill to amend the
Toxic Substances Control Act to pro-
hibit the manufacture, processing, and
distribution in commerce of asbestos
and asbestos-containing mixtures and
articles, and for other purposes.
S. 720
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 720, a bill to require the stu-
dent loan ombudsman of the Depart-
ment of Education to provide student
loan data to the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, and for other
purposes.
S. 726
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 726, a bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
to ensure the safety of cosmetics.
S. 728
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR6.013 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1764 March 11, 2019
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 728, a bill to direct the Joint
Committee on the Library to obtain a
statue of Shirley Chisholm for place-
ment in the United States Capitol.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 102—DESIG-
NATING APRIL 2019 AS ‘‘SECOND
CHANCE MONTH’’
Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 102
Whereas every individual is endowed with
human dignity and value;
Whereas redemption and second chances
are values of the United States;
Whereas millions of individuals in the
United States have a criminal record;
Whereas hundreds of thousands of individ-
uals return to their communities from Fed-
eral and State prisons every year;
Whereas neighbors returning to their com-
munities have paid their debt to society
after committing a crime but still face sig-
nificant legal and societal barriers (referred
to in this preamble as ‘‘collateral con-
sequences’’);
Whereas returning individuals face collat-
eral consequences automatically, regardless
of—
(1) a nexus between the legal or societal
barrier and public safety;
(2) the seriousness of the offense com-
mitted;
(3) the time passed since the offense; or
(4) the efforts of the individual to make
amends or earn back the trust of the public;
Whereas gaining meaningful employment
is one of the most significant predictors of
successful reentry into society and reducing
future criminal activity;
Whereas many individuals who have pre-
viously been incarcerated struggle to find
employment because of collateral con-
sequences, which are often not directly re-
lated to the offense committed or any proven
public safety benefit;
Whereas many States have laws that pro-
hibit an individual with a criminal record
from working in certain industries or obtain-
ing professional licenses;
Whereas education has also been shown to
be a significant predictor of successful re-
entry into society;
Whereas an individual with a criminal
record often has a lower level of educational
attainment than the general population and
has significant difficulty acquiring admis-
sion to and funding for educational pro-
grams;
Whereas an individual convicted of certain
crimes is often barred from receiving the fi-
nancial aid necessary to acquire additional
skills and knowledge;
Whereas an individual with a criminal
record also often faces collateral con-
sequences in securing a place to live;
Whereas an individual with a criminal
record is often barred from seeking access to
public housing;
Whereas an individual with a criminal
record also often faces other collateral con-
sequences, such as an inability to regain vot-
ing rights, volunteer in the community, and
secure identification documentation;
Whereas an individual who has been con-
victed and incarcerated may incur signifi-
cant debt as a result of the conviction and
incarceration;
Whereas collateral consequences prevent
millions of individuals in the United States
from contributing fully to their families and
communities;
Whereas collateral consequences can con-
tribute to recidivism, which increases crime
and victimization and decreases public safe-
ty;
Whereas the inability to find gainful em-
ployment and other collateral consequences
of conviction inhibit the economic mobility
of an individual with a criminal record,
which can negatively impact the well-being
of the children and the families of the indi-
vidual for generations;
Whereas the bipartisan First Step Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–391) was signed into law
on December 21, 2018, to increase opportuni-
ties for individuals incarcerated in Federal
prison to participate in meaningful recidi-
vism reduction programs and prepare for a
second chance;
Whereas the Second Chance Act of 2007
(Public Law 110–199; 122 Stat. 657), which has
resulted in the provision of reentry services
to more than 164,000 individuals in 49 States
and the District of Columbia since its enact-
ment, was reauthorized through the First
Step Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–391);
Whereas April 21 marks the anniversary of
the death of Charles Colson, who used his
second chance following his incarceration for
a Watergate-related crime to found Prison
Fellowship, the largest outreach program to
prisoners, former prisoners, and their fami-
lies in the United States; and
Whereas the designation of April as ‘‘Sec-
ond Chance Month’’ can contribute to in-
creased public awareness about the impact of
collateral consequences, the need for closure
for those who have paid their debt to society,
and opportunities for individuals, employers,
congregations, and communities to extend
second chances: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates April 2019 as ‘‘Second Chance
Month’’;
(2) honors the work of communities, gov-
ernmental institutions, nonprofit organiza-
tions, congregations, employers, and individ-
uals to remove unnecessary legal and soci-
etal barriers that prevent an individual with
a criminal record from becoming a produc-
tive member of society; and
(3) calls upon the people of the United
States to observe Second Chance Month
through actions and programs that promote
awareness of those unnecessary legal and so-
cial barriers and provide closure for individ-
uals with a criminal record who have paid
their debt to society.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 103—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 27, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY
AWARENESS DAY’’
Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 103
Whereas assistive technology is any item,
piece of equipment, or product system that
is used to increase, maintain, or improve the
functional capabilities of people with disabil-
ities and older adults;
Whereas the term ‘‘assistive technology
service’’ means any service that directly as-
sists a person with a disability or an older
adult in the selection, acquisition, or use of
an assistive technology device;
Whereas, in 2018, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention reported that 1 in 4
people in the United States, or almost
61,000,000 individuals, has a disability;
Whereas, in 2017, the Department of Edu-
cation reported that there were more than
6,700,000 children with disabilities;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention reported that, among adults
65 years of age and older, 2 in 5 have a dis-
ability;
Whereas assistive technology allows people
with disabilities and older adults to be in-
cluded in their communities and in inclusive
classrooms and workplaces;
Whereas assistive technology devices and
services are not luxury items but necessities
for millions of people with disabilities and
older adults, without which they would be
unable to live in their communities, access
education, and obtain, retain, and advance
gainful, competitive integrated employment;
Whereas the availability of assistive tech-
nology in the workplace promotes economic
self-sufficiency, enhances work participa-
tion, and is critical to the employment of
people with disabilities and older adults; and
Whereas State assistive technology pro-
grams support a continuum of services that
include—
(1) the exchange, repair, recycling, and
other reutilization of assistive technology
devices;
(2) device loan programs that provide short
term loans of assistive technology devices to
individuals, employers, public agencies, and
others;
(3) the demonstration of devices to inform
decision making; and
(4) providing State financing activities to
help individuals purchase or obtain assistive
technology through a variety of initiatives,
such as financial loan programs, leasing pro-
grams, and other financing alternatives, that
give individuals affordable, flexible options
to purchase or obtain assistive technology:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 27, 2019, as ‘‘National
Assistive Technology Awareness Day’’; and
(2) commends—
(A) assistive technology specialists and
program coordinators for their hard work
and dedication to serving people with dis-
abilities who are in need of finding the prop-
er assistive technology to meet their indi-
vidual needs; and
(B) professional organizations and re-
searchers who are dedicated to facilitating
the access and acquisition of assistive tech-
nology for people with disabilities and older
adults in need of assistive technology de-
vices.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I have
a request for one committee to meet
during today’s session of the Senate. It
has the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Monday, March 11, 2019,
at 5:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing on
the nomination of Ronald D. Vitiello,
of Illinois, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary, and Joseph V. Cuffari, of Ari-
zona, to be Inspector General, both of
the Department of Homeland Security.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR6.015 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1765
March 11, 2019
NATIONAL ASSISTIVE
TECHNOLOGY AWARENESS DAY
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 103, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 103) designating
March 27, 2019, as ‘‘National Assistive Tech-
nology Awareness Day.’’
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. BOOZMAN. I further ask that the
resolution be agreed to, the preamble
be agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 103) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 729
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I un-
derstand that there is a bill at the desk
that is due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator is correct.
The clerk will read the title of the
bill for the second time.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 729) to prohibit the use of funds
to Federal agencies to establish a panel, task
force, advisory committee, or other effort to
challenge the scientific consensus on climate
change, and for other purposes.
Mr. BOOZMAN. In order to place the
bill on the calendar under the provi-
sions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection having been heard, the bill will
be placed on the calendar.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, MARCH 12,
2019
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m. Tuesday, March 12;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Matey nomination under the pre-
vious order; finally, that the Senate re-
cess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. to
allow for the weekly conference meet-
ings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order, following the remarks
of our Democratic colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Oregon.
f
CENTRAL AMERICA
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, it was
a powerful opportunity to join my col-
league from Delaware, Senator CAR-
PER, in traveling to the Northern Tri-
angle of Central America—Guatemala,
Honduras, and El Salvador—to try to
understand more about the dynamics
in that region, which are driving so
many families to come north, to take
the difficult journey through Central
America, through Mexico, to come to
our border and to ask for asylum.
This has been a significant flow,
which has expanded greatly. We have
seen in the past that most of those ar-
riving on our border were men from
Mexico who were seeking work but not
so much now. Now we have this flow of
families from Central America. These
families are traveling to find some-
thing better for their lives and for
their children’s lives. It is not an easy
journey, and it is a journey that has
created quite a conversation here in
the United States of America.
The conversation coming from our
President has been this: How do we
stop them from asserting asylum at
the border?
President Trump has a number of
strategies to deter families from com-
ing. His strategy was to separate chil-
dren from their parents, treat those
fleeing as criminals, create great trau-
ma for the children, and use this as a
strategy of deterrence. This was first
laid out very clearly by John Kelly just
months into the administration. In
March of 2017, he said: Yes, this is ex-
actly what we are considering.
The administration then proceeded
to implement it first as a pilot project
and later as an all-out strategy to
treat those migrating as criminals,
lock up the parents, separate the chil-
dren, inflict trauma, and deter people
from coming. I can state that any
strategy that involves mistreating
children as a political tactic—a polit-
ical message of deterrence—is simply
evil. It comes from a very, very dark
place in the heart of this administra-
tion to deliberately injure children in
this fashion.
Why doesn’t the President look to
Central America and ask: What is mo-
tivating these families to come? How
can we change that motivation? What
are the forces at work in that region?
Those were the questions that Sen-
ator CARPER and I were undertaking to
answer on our recent trip, and I appre-
ciate so much that he went through the
great work of organizing it.
We went first to Guatemala, then to
Honduras, then to El Salvador. We met
with the President. We met with the
incoming President of El Salvador. We
met with the civil society organiza-
tions—those who understand the roots
of what is going on within the soci-
ety—and here is what we learned. We
learned there were three powerful
forces driving families to leave those
countries: security, economics, and
corruption.
Let’s talk a little bit about those
three things.
Security. I had the chance to meet a
woman and her daughter, Gabriella and
her baby Andrea. Gabriella told me
about her journey. She said that her
family took a loan from a private
bank, which probably meant a finan-
cial loan from the local drug cartel or
financial group associated with a drug
cartel. The family wasn’t able to repay
the loan. They were given a deadline.
They were told: If you don’t repay the
loan, one of your family members dies,
and that will be you, Gabriella.
Gabriella was pregnant. She figured
that as long as she was pregnant, they
would not kill her. So when she was 8
months pregnant—1 month ago—she
fled the country to save herself and to
save her baby.
I met her and her baby on the border.
They had just crossed the bridge into
the United States of America. I asked
her: How did you get past the Amer-
ican border guards, who wouldn’t allow
anyone across the bridge if they didn’t
have a passport or visa? Her face lit up
for a moment. She said: Well, I was
rebuffed time and again at the center
of the bridge, not allowed to come
across and assert asylum, and I was
desperate, blocked on the Mexican side.
Then I saw there was a pedestrian
bridge and a car bridge, and on the car
bridge were folks who were washing
windows for tips. So I asked to use an
extra squeegee from one of the window
washers, who gave it to me, and I
washed windows on the car bridge to
get into the United States of America.
And there she was at the foot of the
bridge with her baby.
She told me that because she fled
with her baby, those who were enforc-
ing that private loan from that private
bank killed her uncle. That is the secu-
rity issue that comes with all of the
various versions of that story.
I met another woman, Patricia. Pa-
tricia had a 14-year-old daughter. Pa-
tricia had to pay extortion money. The
President of Guatemala told me that
every business has to pay extortion
money. In this case, though, Patricia
had no money left to pay the extortion.
So the drug gang—or the gang that
controls the streets and runs the extor-
tion—came to her house and assaulted
her 14-year-old daughter. So she fled.
She fled to protect her daughter from
any other such horrific circumstances.
She came to the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.020 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1766 March 11, 2019
That is a security issue. This is not a
situation where if you don’t pay the ex-
tortion money, they break your win-
dow. This is: If you don’t pay the extor-
tion money, we kill you; we rape your
daughter; we kill your family—maybe
we torture them. That is the security
issue.
Then there is the economic issue. In
Guatemala, the median age is 18. I be-
lieve they said it is the youngest me-
dian age on the planet. A huge number
of young people are coming into work-
ing age, and while they are working to
create jobs, they are not possibly cre-
ating enough jobs. So you have this
huge number of people without jobs.
What are they going to do?
I will state that one thing they do is
go hungry. Malnutrition is a horren-
dous demon haunting the country of
Guatemala. One individual showed us a
picture of Guatemalan children against
a wall and their average heights; they
had lines across the wall for their
heights. They had a similar picture of
Guatemalan children being raised in
the United States. It was to dramatize
the fact that the children growing up
in Guatemala at age 9 are 6 inches
shorter than the Guatemalan children
growing up in the United States at the
same age. It is stunting—stunting from
persistent malnutrition. So joblessness
and malnutrition, an insufficient net-
work of schools and trained school-
teachers—all of these things are eco-
nomic challenges.
Let me tell you, it is not just the fact
that you don’t have a job. It is that in
your small village across the country—
across all three countries—you may see
on a street, as was described to us, a
shack, a second shack, a third shack, a
fourth shack, and then a beautiful
house. That beautiful house was there
because somebody in that village made
it to the United States of America, and
they have been sending back money
year after year in sufficient quantities
that the family is now prosperous.
They can build that beautiful house.
That beautiful house stands as a bill-
board. It is an advertisement for what
might happen if you can make it to the
United States and get a job. So on the
one hand, there are no jobs, and on the
other hand, this beacon of hope is say-
ing to you: If you can make it across
the border, you might be able to be
prosperous yourself and, basically, en-
able your entire family to be pros-
perous.
Then we have corruption. This isn’t
garden variety corruption. For genera-
tions—for hundreds of years—there has
been a class in these countries that is
beyond the law. They call their efforts
to change this a campaign against im-
punity. That is not a word we use a lot
in America—‘‘impunity’’—but it means
individuals who are never touched by
the legal system. They can do whatever
they want. They pay no fines. They
never go to prison. They suck money
out of the country. They suck money
out of all of those layers of the econ-
omy below them. They have become
extraordinarily rich. They talk about
the 8 families in Guatemala and the 14
families in El Salvador.
So that corruption we have been
working to take on. We, the United
States, in partnership with the govern-
ments there, have been working to
take that on. So those three things—
security, the economy, and corrup-
tion—are the factors driving people to
flee north.
A few years ago, then-Vice President
Biden went to Central America to un-
derstand those issues better. Out of
that came the Alliance for Prosperity—
the Alliance for Prosperity—a strategy
based on Plan Colombia, as my col-
league from Delaware laid out, that
would strengthen the programs to take
on the security issues, to take on the
corruption issues, to take on the eco-
nomic challenges that are draining
those countries so that people didn’t
feel that to survive, they had to flee
north.
We funded this at a modest level in
fiscal year 2016. It was $754 million.
Think of that as it compares to money
we have been spending on the border—
billions and billions and billions of dol-
lars for physical infrastructure, for
border security, for high-tech sensors,
for a system of courts to adjudicate
asylum, all of that. We spent only
about three-quarters of a billion dol-
lars to strengthen those three coun-
tries.
Along comes the Trump administra-
tion, which says that it is concerned—
very concerned—about this flow of peo-
ple coming from Central America to
our border, and they propose a 34-per-
cent cut in this program. They propose
cutting it from $754 million to a pro-
posal of $460 million. Well, the Demo-
crats and Republicans restored fund-
ing, put it back, not quite to the $750
million number but to $627 million.
The Trump budget came out the next
year and cut it again; they proposed a
30-percent cut. Again, here in Congress,
we worked to restore those programs,
not where they were before but, basi-
cally, $100 million more than the
Trump administration asked for.
So to my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle: Doesn’t it make sense for us
to support the Alliance for Prosperity?
For each dollar we send, they provide
between $4 and $7; that is $4 to $7 in
very poor countries.
Doesn’t it make sense to support the
commissions against impunity, the
commissions against corruption? In the
last 2 years, the Trump administration
has been undermining these commis-
sions against corruption. Well, that is
just wrong.
The result, as you saw in El Sal-
vador, was the election of the mayor of
San Salvador, Nayib Bukele, a very
young fellow in his thirties. What did
he run on? Taking on corruption, tak-
ing on impunity. Shouldn’t we be a
partner with them in this?
If we don’t want families to flee
north, then we shouldn’t want the elite
to operate with impunity and suck all
of the resources out of the country and
leave people starving. Let’s partner
with the governments there to take on
corruption, not undermine these com-
missions of support.
A trip to Central America will make
you really appreciate our institutions,
our economy, our education system,
our healthcare system, our court sys-
tem, our opportunities for our children.
We can do far better, for sure, but
every piece of what we have that works
so much better than those parallel sys-
tems in Central America calls out to
those there to come and participate in
our society. If we want families to stay
where they are, they are going to have
to have an opportunity where they are,
which means we have to take on the se-
curity issues, including the street-level
extortion. We have to help them take
those on. We have to help them im-
prove their economy and their edu-
cation system. We have to help them
take on the systemic, high-level, mas-
sive corruption that drives resources
into the hands of the very few at the
expense of the very many.
That is the mission we should be
talking about here on the floor—wres-
tling with here on the floor. Maybe we
shouldn’t return to the levels that
Obama had that we had passed in a bi-
partisan way here. Maybe we should do
double what was done in 2016—or tri-
ple—if we really want to help anchor
those societies’ rudders that have peo-
ple fleeing for their lives to come here.
f
THE EQUALITY ACT
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I
speak now to a bill we will introduce
this Wednesday, the Equality Act. The
Equality Act will be introduced by a
group of us in the Senate and by an-
other group led by Congressman
CICILLINE in the House.
It is an appropriate moment for us to
ponder in this Chamber why this piece
of legislation is part of our American
journey toward the vision of oppor-
tunity for all and why we all should be
supporting this beautiful legislative
proposal.
My involvement in the Equality Act
began in my home State of Oregon,
when I was serving in the legislature
there, and we had the question of how
can we change the systematic discrimi-
nation against our LGBTQ brothers
and sisters. How can we give them the
same opportunity everyone else has?
So we came together and said we
should do an Oregon Equality Act, an
Oregon Equality Act that would create
the same basic protections the Civil
Rights Act has for race and gender and
ethnicity.
We went about doing that. I was the
speaker. I worked very hard to make
that happen, and we succeeded. We
ended discrimination in Oregon based
on who you are or whom you love. Dis-
crimination should be ended across the
whole country.
I arrived here in January 2009, and I
was assigned to the Health, Education,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.022 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1767
March 11, 2019
Labor, and Pensions Committee—the
Health Committee. I asked Senator
Kennedy if I could possibly serve on
this committee to help fight for health
and education and labor, and he ar-
ranged that. I will never forget having
his voicemail on my phone saying: Yes,
you are a member of the committee.
A few months later came the real
surprise. Senator Kennedy was strug-
gling with the brain cancer that killed
him later that year, and through his
team, he asked me to take on one of
his civil rights bills, the Employment
Non-Discrimination Act.
That was to end discrimination for
LGBTQ Americans in employment,
give them a fair chance to get a job
here. Well, this is something that had
been part of our Equality Act in Or-
egon. We had gotten that done, and be-
cause I helped lead that fight, he asked
me to take over and lead the fight to
end employment nondiscrimination.
That was 2009. It took 4 years of
work—work with the community and
work with our legislators inside this
building. Then, finally, in 2013, the
time was ripe to put it on the floor and
have this debate. This Chamber, with
the supermajority, bipartisan vote,
said, yes, let’s end discrimination in
employment, and we passed the Em-
ployment Non-Discrimination Act.
Then I went over to the House, and it
died without consideration. I got to-
gether with the advocates and asked,
where do we go from here with the
House not acting? Do we simply con-
tinue to reintroduce the Employment
Non-Discrimination Act—which had
been first introduced in 1996, first con-
sidered on this floor and almost passed
just one vote short in 1998. Do we con-
tinue to do that?
Out of that conversation, we devel-
oped a different vision. Let’s do a full
Equality Act like Oregon has done, like
a number of other States have done
and end discrimination not just in one
sector or another, not just in places of
accommodation, not just in financial
transactions, not just in serving on a
jury, not just in terms of housing, not
just in terms of employment, let’s base
the Equality Act on providing the full
spectrum, the full measure of protec-
tion for opportunity.
I thought that was a pretty good
idea. Later that year, I introduced the
Equality Act in partnership with many
others. We laid out that first Equality
Act in the Johnson Room—the Johnson
Room, which looks out at the Supreme
Court and reminds us of 1964. In 1964,
when the Civil Rights Act was passed,
driven forward by President Johnson,
who came from Texas, who came from
the South, and said: It is time to end
discrimination in the United States of
America based on race and gender and
ethnicity. He drove that legislation
through, and it has been a foundation
we haven’t questioned since because we
know it is right. We know it is part of
this journey of the United States of
America going back to our Declaration
of Independence, going back to our
Constitution—a vision of opportunity
for all and liberty for all.
We know it was imperfect, and we
have worked now for almost two and a
half centuries to perfect that vision of
opportunity. Senator Ted Kennedy
once said: ‘‘The promise of America
will never be fulfilled as long as justice
is denied to even one among us.’’ The
promise of America—that promise of
America that Thomas Jefferson so elo-
quently put, in 1776—is a vision where
we are all created equal, with
‘‘unalienable Rights . . . Life, Liberty
and the pursuit of Happiness.’’
How can that vision be propelled,
sustained, and promoted if, in fact, as
you pursue your life, the door is
slammed shut on you, saying, ‘‘No.
There is opportunity for that indi-
vidual but not you,’’ and the door is
slammed shut—liberty for that person
but not you, and the door is slammed
shut.
We have come to understand that is
just wrong. It is completely incompat-
ible with the vision that was laid out,
the vision of our Declaration and the
vision of our Constitution.
In fact, in this Chamber, we start
with a pledge, and we talk about one
Nation under God with liberty and jus-
tice for all. Classrooms across the
country start their day with a pledge
of liberty and justice for all, but what
is liberty if the door is slammed shut?
That is the denial of liberty. That is
the opposite of freedom. That is the
crushing of opportunity.
So the story of America goes for-
ward. The fight goes forward. We had
the 1964 Civil Rights Act that was a
culmination itself of decades of work.
We had the voting rights struggle dur-
ing the same time period, and the Vot-
ing Rights Act in 1965. We fought a
number of battles—battles of discrimi-
nation against those with disabilities.
We fought for workers’ rights, but our
LGBTQ brothers and sisters still face
discrimination all across this country.
We are still in a situation where so
many doors are slammed shut.
We have had a lot of progress in the
last 10 years. Ten years ago, we had the
Defense of Marriage Act, and now we
don’t. We had don’t ask, don’t tell in
the military, and now we don’t. We had
only three States that recognized
same-sex marriage, and now it is the
law of the land as the Supreme Court
weighed in and said it is required by
the vision of our Constitution.
Discrimination in all kinds of ways is
still legal in 29 States—more than half
the country. In more than half the
country, you can be married in the
morning, denied service at a restaurant
for lunch, fired from your job in the
afternoon, and kicked out of your
apartment that night because discrimi-
nation is still legal against LGBTQ
Americans in 29 States.
LBJ gave a definition of freedom. He
said: ‘‘Freedom is the right to be treat-
ed in every part of our national life as
a person equal in dignity and promise
to all others.’’ Discrimination is the
opposite of freedom.
Let freedom ring in this Chamber as
we introduce the Equality Act later
this week. Let freedom ring down the
hall as the House of Representatives
holds a debate in committee and on the
floor in the months to come, and when
that freedom bell rings so loudly that
they pass that bill, the Equality Act in
that Chamber, let them bring it down
this hallway right into the Senate;
that we might debate the same and put
an end to the extraordinary, disgrace-
ful discrimination that still marks the
lives and slams the doors shut on mil-
lions and millions of Americans every
single day.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:27 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, March 12,
2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
DAVID BERNHARDT, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR, VICE RYAN ZINKE.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOHN LINDER, OF GEORGIA, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE ASSOCIA-
TION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS, WITH THE RANK
AND STATUS OF AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
JENNIFER D. NORDQUIST, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT FOR A
TERM OF TWO YEARS, VICE MATTHEW T. MCGUIRE,
TERM EXPIRED.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
JOHN MCLEOD BARGER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A GOV-
ERNOR OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A
TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 8, 2021, VICE LOUIS J.
GIULIANO, TERM EXPIRED.
THE JUDICIARY
RAINEY R. BRANDT, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM OF FIF-
TEEN YEARS, VICE JUDITH NAN MACALUSO, RETIRED.
SHANA FROST MATINI, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM OF FIF-
TEEN YEARS, VICE ZOE BUSH, RETIRED.
MICHAEL S. BOGREN, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT
OF MICHIGAN, VICE ROBERT HOLMES BELL, RETIRED.
JEFFREY VINCENT BROWN, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS, VICE MELINDA HARMON, RETIRED.
STEPHANIE DAWKINS DAVIS, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN, VICE GERALD E. ROSEN, RE-
TIRED.
BRANTLEY STARR, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
TEXAS, VICE SIDNEY A. FITZWATER, RETIRED.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G11MR6.023 S11MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E279
March 11, 2019
TRIBUTE TO RABBI JOHN L.
ROSOVE
HON. ADAM B. SCHIFF
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Rabbi John L. Rosove, a man of
great integrity and an outstanding leader in the
greater Jewish community, who is retiring from
his duties as Senior Rabbi of Temple Israel of
Hollywood, a position he has held since 1988.
Born and raised in Los Angeles, Rabbi
Rosove earned a Bachelor’s in Art History
from the University of California, Berkeley, a
Master’s in Hebrew letters from Hebrew Union
College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Los An-
geles, Rabbinic Ordination from Hebrew Union
College-Jewish Institute of Religion in New
York, and a Doctor of Divinity from Hebrew
Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in
Los Angeles.
Rabbi Rosove has worked tirelessly and
selflessly to build a robust Jewish community
in the greater Hollywood area, and to bring
Jewish people closer together, viewing social
justice work and ethical principles as core
Jewish religious values. He oversaw the
founding of the Temple’s Day School and
helped spearhead Big Sunday Weekend of
Service in 1998, which today is a year-round
organization where 50,000 Good Samaritans
in Los Angeles volunteer annually to help the
community at over 2,000 events.
Rabbi Rosove has admirably served in nu-
merous leadership positions, including as na-
tional chairperson of the Association of Re-
form Zionists of America, where he rep-
resented more than 1.5 million American Re-
form Jews. He also served in leadership roles
at the Jewish Agency for Israel, the World Zi-
onist Organization, and the Conference of
Presidents of Major American Jewish Organi-
zations, and from 2012 to 2016, he was a na-
tional co-chair of the Executive Rabbinic Cabi-
net of J Street.
For his work benefitting the Jewish Commu-
nity, Rabbi Rosove has received the World
Union for Progressive Judaism International
Humanitarian Award and honored by J Street.
Rabbi Rosove and his wife Barbara, have
two sons, Daniel and David.
I ask all Members of Congress to join me
today in honoring Rabbi John L. Rosove for
his decades of outstanding service to the Jew-
ish community and his unwavering commit-
ment to peace and justice.
f
HONORING MS. JEANIE PARNELL
HON. MARTHA ROBY
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mrs. ROBY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Ms. Jeanie Parnell, an exceptional Ala-
bamian who won the 2018 Southeastern Lit-
erary Tourism Initiative writing contest with her
short story, ‘‘Tunnel Vision,’’ that focuses on
the American Civil Rights Movement in my
hometown Montgomery, Alabama.
Born and raised in Montgomery, Jeanie re-
ceived her undergraduate degree from Auburn
University. Following her graduation from Au-
burn, Jeanie received post-graduate degrees
in English and Teaching Writing from Auburn
University Montgomery.
Jeanie is a stay-at-home mother of three
currently living in Montgomery. She has writ-
ten several successful novels, including
‘‘Fairhope,’’ a second-prize winner of the 2013
Amazon Breakthrough Novel Award. Her most
recent short story, ‘‘Tunnel Vision,’’ captures
the spirit of social change through the eyes of
a 1954 Montgomery woman who is magically
transported to modern-day Alabama.
Literature like Jeanie’s story can encourage
tourism and promote economic growth in com-
munities throughout the United States. The
Southeastern Literary Tourism Initiative chal-
lenges writers to create stories that attract visi-
tors to areas like Alabama’s Second District.
Jeanie has truly captured the spirit of Mont-
gomery, and I encourage others to visit our
beautiful city so that they may see firsthand
the rich history of our area.
Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to honor
Ms. Parnell’s literary success and to acknowl-
edge her impact on the Montgomery commu-
nity. I am proud to call her a lifelong friend
and fellow Alabamian.
f
RECOGNIZING AAYUSH KARAN OF
MUSKEGO
HON. BRYAN STEIL
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor a young, bright, and talented student
from Wisconsin’s First Congressional District,
Aayush Karan of Muskego. A student at the
University School of Milwaukee, Aayush is in
Washington this week as one of the top 40 fi-
nalists—and the only finalist from Wisconsin—
in the nation for the most prestigious science
competition for high school seniors, the
Regeneron Science Talent Search.
His Regeneron Science Talent Search
mathematics project untangled a mystery in
knot theory. Knot theory has puzzled mathe-
maticians for years and advancements in the
theory could help our understanding of DNA.
In addition to his studies, Aayush runs cross
country and plays the piano.
On behalf of Wisconsin’s First Congres-
sional District, I congratulate Aayush for his in-
credible achievement and wish him all the
best in the future.
RECOGNIZING ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD MASTER SGT. JOHN
PAUL KARPOVICH OF LUZERNE
COUNTY
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to recognize the
dedicated service of Army National Guard
Master Sgt. John Paul Karpovich of Luzerne
County. Master Sgt. Karpovich was recently
presented with the Pennsylvania Veterans
Service Medal and is the first recipient of this
distinguished award.
The Pennsylvania Veterans Service Medal
is reserved for those within our great Com-
monwealth who go above and beyond to sup-
port Pennsylvania’s veterans. A member of
the National Guard, Master Sgt. Karpovich has
transcended his call to serve. He has become
an instrumental member of the veterans com-
munity in Pennsylvania, giving selflessly to
many men and women who served before
him.
For nearly 20 years, Master Sgt. Karpovich
has served on the Wyoming Valley Veterans
Day Parade Committee, he is also a life mem-
ber of AMVETS Post 59, a member of Amer-
ican Legion Post 395, serves on the board of
directors for the Northeastern Pennsylvania
Veterans Multi-care Alliance, and is a member
of the Honorary First Defenders.
Nearly 800,000 veterans call Pennsylvania
home. We are fortunate to have dedicated in-
dividuals like Master Sgt. Karpovich who work
to support our heroes. Madam Speaker, I ask
that my colleagues join me in congratulating
Army National Guard Master Sgt. John Paul
Karpovich on this well-deserved recognition
and thanking him for the many contributions
he has made and continues to make, to our
veterans.
f
CONDEMNING ANTI-SEMITISM AND
ANTI-MUSLIM DISCRIMINATION
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 7, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of the Committees on the Judici-
ary and Homeland Security, the Tom Lantos
Human Rights Commission, the bipartisan
Congressional International Religious Freedom
Caucus, and the Helsinki Commission, I rise in
strong support of H. Res. 183, a resolution
that puts the House on record in its con-
demnation of anti-Semitism, Islamophobia,
racism, and other forms of bigotry as hateful
expressions of intolerance that are inimical to
the values and aspirations that define the peo-
ple of the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K11MR8.001 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E280 March 11, 2019
I support the resolution also because it also
forcefully expresses the condemnation by this
House of anti-Muslim discrimination and big-
otry against racial, ethnic, religious, and other
marginalized communities.
Mr. Speaker, nearly thirty years ago, as a
young mother, I first visited Israel and the Holy
Land, and I have returned many times since
then to the region that gave birth to three of
the world’s great religions, civilizations, and
cultures.
I have been a passionate supporter of the
Mickey Leland Kibbutzim Internship program,
which for nearly thirty years has enabled
inner-city high school students who live or
study in the 18th Congressional District the
opportunity to spend a summer in Israel.
As a member of the Commission on Secu-
rity and Cooperation in Europe, better known
as the U.S. Helsinki Commission, I have trav-
eled abroad on numerous occasions to partici-
pate in parliamentary diplomacy in support of
OSCE and other European efforts to combat
anti-Semitism, including legislation calling for
increased security for the Jewish community,
funds for civil society coalitions to combat
hate, and a U.S.-EU Joint Action Plan to com-
bat prejudice and discrimination that would in-
clude a specific focus on anti-Semitism.
As a member of the Commission I sup-
ported the successful effort to include anti-Se-
mitic incidents in the annual State Department
International Religious Freedom Reports and
Country Reports on Human Rights, and to cre-
ate the position of the U.S. Special Envoy on
Anti-Semitism within the State Department.
Mr. Speaker, nearly 74 years have passed
since the end of World War II but for those
who survived, and the descendants and rel-
atives of those who perished, the Holocaust is
not ancient history but a reminder of the evil
that can be unleashed when humans give into
their worst instincts and appetites.
The Holocaust is the worst example of
man’s inhumanity to man in human history
and the magnitude of its destruction numbered
more than 12 million deaths, including 6 mil-
lion Jews and 1.5 million children.
A haunting quote in the United States Holo-
caust Memorial Museum refers to the story of
Cain and Abel: ‘‘The Lord said, ‘What have
you done? Listen! Your brother’s blood cries
out to me from the ground’ ’’ (Genesis 4:11).
The Holocaust is a testament to the fragility
of democracy and it forces us to confront un-
comfortable questions such as the responsibil-
ities of citizenship and the consequences of
indifference and inaction, and the importance
of education and awareness.
That is why we, all of us, must reject and
resist prejudice and intolerance in any form.
Mr. Speaker, anti-Semitism is the name for
the bigotry and form of racism endured for
centuries by Jewish people for no other rea-
son that simply because they are Jews.
In 2017 the Federal Bureau of Investigation
reported a 37 percent increase in hate crimes
against Jews or Jewish institutions and found
that attacks against Jews or Jewish institutions
made up 58.1 percent of all religious-based
hate crimes.
And it was just last year, on October 27,
2018, the perpetrator of the deadliest attack
on Jewish people in the history of the United
States killed 11 worshippers at the Tree of Life
Synagogue building in Pittsburgh and report-
edly stated that he ‘‘wanted all Jews to die.’’
There is an urgent need to ensure the safe-
ty and security of Jewish communities, includ-
ing synagogues, schools, cemeteries, and
other institutions.
Outside of the United States, Jews are the
targets of anti-Semitic violence at even higher
rates in many other countries.
Anti-Semitism includes scapegoating or
blaming Jews as Jews when things go wrong;
calling for, aiding, or justifying the killing or
harming of Jews in the name of a radical ide-
ology or extremist view of religion; or making
mendacious, dehumanizing, demonizing, or
stereotyped allegations about Jews.
Another way that anti-Semitism manifests
itself is when Jewish people are subject in the
media and political campaigns to numerous
other dangerous myths, including the canard
that Jews control the United States Govern-
ment or seek global, political, and financial
domination, or that Jews are obsessed with
money.
Mr. Speaker, we need to denounce and re-
ject forcefully and continuously the
scapegoating and targeting of Jews in the
United States that has persisted for many
years, including by the Ku Klux Klan, the
America First Committee, and by modern neo-
Nazis, whose membership decidedly is not
comprised of ‘‘very fine people.’’
We also must have zero-tolerance for any
suggestion or accusation that Jews are more
loyal to Israel or to the Jewish community than
to the United States.
Such accusations of dual allegiance con-
stitutes anti-Semitism because they suggest
that Jewish citizens cannot be patriotic Ameri-
cans and trusted neighbors, when Jews have
loyally served our Nation every day since its
founding, whether in public or community life
or military service.
Accusations of dual loyalty have an insid-
ious and pernicious history and led, inter alia,
to the discriminatory incarceration of Ameri-
cans of Japanese descent during World War II
on their basis of race and alleged dual loyalty;
the Dreyfus affair, when Alfred Dreyfus, a
Jewish French artillery captain, was falsely
convicted of passing secrets to Germany
based on his Jewish background; and the
questioning of John F. Kennedy’s fitness to
serve as President of the United States be-
cause of his Catholic faith.
Following the terrorist attack of September
11, we saw a noticeable increase in suspicion
of, and hostility to, Muslim-Americans in the
United States, including Islamophobia, based
on false accusations that they were supportive
of, or associated with, terrorism.
Mr. Speaker, in 2017, mosques were
bombed in Bloomington, Minnesota, and
burned in Austin, Texas, Victoria, Texas,
Bellevue, Washington, and Thonotosassa,
Florida, and mass attacks on Muslim commu-
nities were planned against communities in
Islamberg, New York, in 2019, Jacksonville,
Florida, in 2017, and Garden City, Kansas, in
2016.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has re-
ported that hate crimes against Muslims or
Muslim institutions in the United States in-
creased by over 99 percent between 2014 and
2016.
That is why I am so pleased that the resolu-
tion before us also strongly denounces anti-
Muslim bigotry, which entails prejudicial atti-
tudes towards Muslims and people who are
perceived to be Muslim, including the irrational
belief that Muslims are inherently violent, dis-
loyal, and foreign; or sympathize with individ-
uals who engage in violence or terror or sup-
port the oppression of women, Jews, and
other vulnerable communities.
It is very important and significant that the
resolution before us also condemns White su-
premacists in the United States who have and
continue to exploit bigotry and weaponize hate
for political gain, targeting traditionally per-
secuted peoples, including African Americans,
Native Americans, and other people of color,
Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, immigrants,
and others with verbal attacks, incitement, and
violence.
Let us be very clear: these purveyors of
hate will not win because as the Reverend
Martin Luther King, Jr., taught, persecution of
any American is an assault on the rights and
freedoms of all Americans.
Mr. Speaker, anti-Semitism is wrong and
based on a lie—as are racism, Islamophobia,
sexism, homophobia, and xenophobia—but re-
member the words of William Cullen Bryant,
who said:
Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again;
The eternal years of God are hers;
But Error, wounded, writhes in pain,
And dies among his worshippers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to
vote for H. Res. 183 and I encourage every
person in the United States to confront and re-
ject anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, racism, and
other forms of bigotry and do all they can to
ensure that the United States lives up to the
transcendent principles of tolerance, religious
freedom, and equal protection as embodied in
the Declaration of Independence and the first
and 14th amendments to the Constitution that
have made it the envy and the hope of the
world.
f
IAN STEWART EARNS THE RANK
OF EAGLE SCOUT
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Ian Stewart of Pearland, TX for
earning the rank of Eagle Scout. Eagle Scout
is the highest honor a Boy Scout can earn.
Only a small percentage of Boy Scouts
reach the rank of Eagle Scout. This honor re-
quires years of effort to develop the necessary
leadership, service and outdoor skills. To earn
it, Ian developed and provided leadership to
others in a service project. For his project, Ian
refurbished soccer goals on fields throughout
the Shadow Creek Ranch Planned Community
in Pearland, TX. His dedication to our commu-
nity has prepared him to be a leader in his fu-
ture endeavors and benefit all those around
him.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Ian for becoming an Eagle Scout. We are
proud of his continued success and thank him
for his dedication to making our community a
better place.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR8.002 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E281
March 11, 2019
ASSISTANCE LEAGUE OF VICTOR
VALLEY HONORED BY THE
APPLE VALLEY OPTIMIST CLUB
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the incredible service of the Assist-
ance League of Victor Valley, who was hon-
ored by the Apple Valley Optimist Club on
Saturday, March 8.
Founded in 1979 and achieving Full Chapter
Status in 1982, the Assistance League of Vic-
tor Valley is a nonprofit organization focused
on identifying and funding ongoing, community
based philanthropic programs in the Victor
Valley. Their signature program is Operation
School Bell, which provides new school
clothes to children in need living in the Victor
Valley. Since the Operation began, 27,244
local children have received clothing, with
1,357 students receiving clothing during the
2017–2018 school year. The Assistance
League has also logged 28,000 volunteer
hours during that same period and gave 1,620
bears to children in local hospitals.
The Assistance League of Victor Valley is
one of the most effective nonprofit organiza-
tions in the High Desert, and I am proud to
see them receiving some very well-deserved
recognition. I wish them nothing but success
as they continue to help the less fortunate in
our community.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF DALE COOK
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today with Congressman JERRY MCNERNEY to
pay tribute to Dale Cook and recognize his
service to our country.
Dale was born in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho.
After enlisting in the Marine Corps as a high
school senior in 1944, Dale was assigned to
the 4th Marine Division on Maui.
Seventy-four years ago, Dale was one of
the few surviving Marines who invaded Iwo
Jima on February 19, 1945. He was wounded
by an enemy grenade and evacuated to Guam
where he joined the first of his many Veterans
organizations, the Veterans of Foreign Wars
(VFW).
After returning to the United States, Dale
was recruited by the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion as a regional public information officer
and later moved to the San Francisco Bay
Area, where he spent the rest of his career
and retirement. He joined the Army Reserve
as the Chief Public Information Officer of the
6th Army command at the Presidio of San
Francisco, while continuing his involvement in
veterans organizations.
Dale continued to serve his community by
leading an annual commemoration of the Bat-
tle of Iwo Jima for many years, first at the
Golden Gate National Cemetery and later at
the Marines Memorial Club in San Francisco.
He also volunteered as a Boy Scout troop
leader and mentored many Eagle Scouts. A
proud Marine, he started raising English Bull-
dogs, the military branch’s mascot.
Dale will be sincerely missed by his family,
the veteran community, and all those who had
the great pleasure of knowing him. He will be
remembered for his service to and love for his
country.
f
HAPPY SESQUICENTENNIAL—CELE-
BRATING 150 YEARS OF THE
WEST POINT ASSOCIATION OF
GRADUATES PART I (1969–1990)
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to in-
clude in the RECORD an article by Keith J.
Hamel honoring the 150th Anniversary of the
West Point Association of Graduates.
‘‘On May 22, 2019, the West Point Associa-
tion of Graduates will turn 150 years old.
Think about it—one hundred and fifty years!
When ‘‘the Association,’’ as it used to be
known, held its first organizational meeting
in the office of Dr. Horace Webster, Class of
1818, President of the College of the City of
New York, the light bulb had yet to be in-
vented; the telephone had not been patented;
the U.S. flag had only 37 stars; and the ma-
chine gun, dynamite, and the torpedo were
less than a decade old.
The year was 1869, an important year in
the history of West Point graduates. On
March 4 of that year, Ulysses S. Grant, Class
of 1843, became the 18th President of the
United States. Grant, of course, received na-
tional acclaim for commanding the Union
Army to victory during the U.S. Civil War,
accepting the surrender of Confederate
forces from another West Point graduate,
Robert E. Lee, Class of 1829. That recent con-
flict, roughly four years over by the time a
handful of graduates met in Webster’s office
one Saturday afternoon for that first meet-
ing, is often cited as the reason the ‘‘Asso-
ciation’’ was formed; that is, to heal the di-
vide between West Point graduates who
fought on opposing sides of the U.S. Civil
War. While it may be romanticized, such a
theory is plausible. After all, bridging
chasms seemed to be the spirit of the age in
1869. On May 2 of that year the ‘‘golden
spike’’ of the First Transcontinental Rail-
road was driven into the ground at Prom-
ontory Summit of Utah Territory, linking
America’s East Coast with its West Coast.
Later that year, on November 17, the Suez
Canal officially opened, finally completing a
centuries-old idea to create a waterway be-
tween the Mediterranean and the Indian
Ocean.
Yet when Robert Anderson, Class of 1825,
wrote to Sylvanus Thayer, Class of 1808, on
January 28, 1869 to propose the formation of
‘‘an association of the graduates of the Mili-
tary Academy,’’ he never mentioned the
Civil War as a raison d’être for this endeavor
(and Anderson was the officer in charge of
Fort Sumter when it was fired upon by
P.G.T. Beauregard, Class of 1838, to start
that war!) Instead, Anderson plainly told
Thayer he wanted to form an association ‘‘to
see what should be done to perfect and per-
petuate this truly national Institution,’’
[West Point] and, in his February 12, 1869
reply to Anderson, Thayer agreed.
Three months later, 15 graduates gathered
in Webster’s office for the purposes of offi-
cially forming an ‘‘Association of the Grad-
uates of the U.S. Military Academy.’’ Nei-
ther the Civil War nor the ‘‘perpetuation’’ of
West Point was explicitly mentioned in the
minutes from that meeting. Instead, the
graduates present, including Anderson,
passed seven resolutions, the last pertaining
to the ‘‘fundamental principle that the char-
acteristic of this Association shall be.’’ Ac-
cording to the ‘‘Preliminary Meeting’’ min-
utes, Reverend Dr. Francis Vinton, Class of
1830, Assistant Minister of Trinity Church in
New York City, introduced a resolution that
the Association be ‘‘formed purely for the
promotion of social and fraternal inter-
course.’’ Vinton’s resolution became Article
II of the new Association’s Constitution:
‘‘The objects of this Association shall be to
cherish the memories of our Alma Mater,
and to promote the social intercourse and
fraternal fellowship of its graduates.’’
Does this end the debate regarding the pur-
pose of the Association of Graduates’ found-
ing? Not quite. Article IV of the Associa-
tion’s original Constitution complicates
matters. It states, ‘‘Political, or any other
discussions foreign to the purposes of the As-
sociation, as set forth in this Constitution,
or any proceedings of such a tendency, are
declared inimical to the purposes of this or-
ganization, and are prohibited.’’ Such an ar-
ticle calls attention to itself and seems to
support the notion that the recent U.S. Civil
War and its political aftermath might im-
pede the formation of an Association of West
Point Graduates. Furthermore, Article III, 2,
states, ‘‘The oldest graduate belonging to
the Association shall be President; and in his
absence the senior graduate present shall
preside at the meeting of the Association.’’
This made Thayer the ‘‘official’’ first presi-
dent. Although Thayer never attended a
meeting of the Association of Graduates
(and, interestingly, his name does not appear
on the roll of members until 1872), this pas-
sage marries Thayer’s legacy with the cre-
ation of the Association, including his desire
to form such an organization for the benefit
of West Point. Going forward, both implicit
political matters and the promotion of West
Point routinely enter into the dialogue re-
garding the Association’s early history and
business.
Take the Association’s first public act
after a committee of 13 graduates, chaired by
Webster, met on June 16, 1869 and drafted the
constitution and bylaws for the new Associa-
tion. Soon after, the committee mailed the
proposed constitution and bylaws to all grad-
uates; 128 joined (of more than 1,350 living
graduates), including three former Confed-
erate officers: Richard S. Ewell, Class of 1840;
James Longstreet, Class of 1842; and Nathan-
iel R. Chambliss, Class of May 1861. In fact,
Ewell sent a letter back with his dues stat-
ing, ‘‘I cannot think that any graduate of the
Academy would, unless blinded by preju-
dices, decline to aid the work of reuniting
. . . a bond broken asunder by civil discord
and war.’’ Conversely, Simon Bolivar
Buckner, Class of 1844, the first Confederate
general to surrender an Army to Union
forces, perhaps stinging from so-called ‘‘Rad-
ical Republicans’’ attempts to strip ex-rebels
of their right to vote and hold office in the
First Reconstruction Act (1867), wrote back
to the committee saying, ‘‘Fraternal fellow-
ship can exist only in the light of an ac-
knowledged equality, [which] is denounced
by the legislation of the central government
which extends its fostering care to our class
of graduates of our Alma Mater and at the
same time prescribes the other . . . an ac-
knowledgement of the inequality which ren-
ders agreeable social intercourse impos-
sible.’’ Buckner’s sentiment becomes an im-
portant theme taken up by committee mem-
ber Charles Davies, Class of 1815, in his ad-
dress to graduates at the Association’s first
reunion on June 17, 1870.
Forty-three graduates sat in the pews of
the West Point Chapel (now known as the
Old Cadet Chapel) to hear Davies’ address.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A11MR8.004 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E282 March 11, 2019
Although no Southern graduates attended
that first open meeting (more likely due to
the prohibitive cost of travel than to ideo-
logical allegiances), Davies used poetic lan-
guage in his speech to delicately and dip-
lomatically address the issue raised by
Buckner, that is the seeming rift between
graduates who fought on opposite sides of
the U.S. Civil War. ‘‘We come together as the
scattered members of a household after a
long separation—some full of years, some
full of honors,’’ said Davies, recalling the
metaphor of a ‘‘divided house’’ used by Presi-
dent Abraham Lincoln in a famous 1858
speech. Why would Davies use such lan-
guage? The answer is reunification. But,
digging deeper, it is not just a reunification
of graduates from the North and the South;
it is a reunification between West Point
graduates and the United States of America.
Just one sentence prior, Davies said, ‘‘We
come together under the old flag, dear to
every American heart, to recall and con-
template that springtime of life . . . .’’ In
this and his future reunion addresses, Davies
continually uses a ‘‘reunification with the
country’’ theme to tacitly unite graduates
from the North and from the South behind a
single purpose.
‘‘We meet to revive cherished memories
. . . and to renew, together, vows of per-
petual allegiance to our country,’’ Davies
said in the opening to his 1870 address. As
noted by George Pappas in his book To the
Point: The United States Military Academy
1802–1902, ‘‘The defection of southern cadets
and graduates, termed treason by many an-
tagonists, was used as a stepping-stone for
criticizing West Point in general and its
graduates in particular.’’ The Civil War
thrust West Point and its graduates, particu-
larly those who defected to fight for the Con-
federate cause, into the national spotlight,
and, as noted by Harry Williams in his arti-
cle ‘‘The Attack Upon West Point During the
Civil War,’’ ‘‘. . . the [Academy] faced and
weathered a series of dangerous attacks de-
signed to destroy its existence.’’
Those who gathered in those early re-
unions must have been aware that West
Point stood on precarious footing in the
years immediately following the Civil War,
as well as the distrust felt for Southern grad-
uates. In his address at the Second Annual
Reunion on June 17, 1871, Davies’ concluding
words seem to be as much for the graduates
as for a public he felt may still be wary of
the future political intentions of West Point
alumni. ‘‘But above all, fellow graduates,’’
Davies said, ‘‘let us remember that the na-
tion which sustains and has spread its man-
tle over this institution, expects from every
graduate, at all times, and wheresoever he
may be, the full measure of his duty.’’ Then
in his last (and longest) address to grad-
uates, commemorating the centennial of the
Battle of Bunker Hill (1875), Davies made his
most overt gesture to reunification between
graduates from the North and South via re-
newed allegiance to the nation. He began by
reminding graduates of the resolution passed
at the annual meeting a year earlier to in-
vite graduates from ‘‘all sections of the
country’’ to the 1875 reunion. Seven of the
Association’s 12 former Confederate officer
members attended this reunion, the most
ever up to that point. ‘‘[W]e have come here
today, to bury within the circuit of these
mountains all recollections which can sepa-
rate us from each other, or from our common
country,’’ Davies said, ‘‘ . . . and to say to
all, for each, and to each for all, that from
this auspicious day, all the graduates of this
Institution will recognize each other as
friends. Henceforth, and forever, we have one
flag—one country—one destiny.’’
Interestingly, before championing the pa-
triotism of West Point graduates, Davies
lauded the accomplishments of West Point
itself through its graduates. ‘‘We behold,
also, a great Institution,’’ he said in his 1875
address, ‘‘. . . scattering science and knowl-
edge over the nation,’’ which seems to pay
homage to Thayer and Anderson’s original
aim for the Association, ‘‘to see what should
be done to perfect and perpetuate this truly
national Institution.’’ Davies died in 1876,
and, according to David Pinder ’86, in his
paper ‘‘The Association of Graduates of the
U.S. Military Academy, 1869–1902: The Heal-
ing Years,’’ the leadership of the AOG passed
to George Cullum, Class of 1833. One of the
original 15 members of the Association,
Cullum became a member of AOG’s Execu-
tive Committee in 1871 and chaired this com-
mittee until his death in 1892. A year before
those 15 grads met in Webster’s office to
form the Association, Cullum published the
first edition of his three-volume Biographi-
cal Register of the Officers of the United
States Military Academy, which he de-
scribed in its preface as a record of West
Point graduates’ service to the nation so as
to give ‘‘world-renown to their Alma Mater.’’
In the preface to his third edition of the Reg-
ister, published in 1891, Cullum’s intent be-
came more explicit. There he wrote that he
hoped ‘‘this last legacy to Alma Mater and
her numerous sons may further prove the
usefulness of that noble national institu-
tion,’’ nearly echoing Thayer and Anderson’s
original aim for the Association. While re-
unification seemed to be Davies’ primary
ambition, championing the accomplishments
of graduates for the glory of West Point was
clearly the achievement for which Cullum
was known. In fact, at that first meeting in
1870, the first order of business after approv-
ing the constitution and by-laws was adopt-
ing a resolution that gave thanks to Cullum
‘‘for his truthful and admirable annals of the
Military Academy and its Graduates.’’
Cullum demonstrated his philosophy for
West Point and its graduates in the biog-
raphies he wrote for ‘‘Necrology,’’ that sec-
tion of the Association’s published annual
report identifying the graduates who had
died since the last meeting. In the 1871 An-
nual Reunion, the first to acknowledge the
author of each graduate’s biography, Cullum
is cited as having written five of them, the
first being for Ethan Allen Hitchcock, Class
of 1817. And while other authors devoted
paragraphs to the deceased, Cullum wrote
pages (Hitchcock’s biography is 10 pages
long). Cullum continued writing ‘‘Necrol-
ogy’’ biographies right up until his own
death, the last one for Montgomery C. Meigs,
Class of 1836, who died January 2, 1892.
Cullum himself died February 28 of that
year, and his own ‘‘Necrology’’ biography ap-
pears just six pages after Meigs’.
Cullum had started writing an extended bi-
ography of Thayer for the 1873 Annual Re-
union, but, according to a Secretary note in
that record, Cullum’s absence in Europe pre-
vented the completion of it in time for publi-
cation. Ten years later, Cullum likely incor-
porated portions of that biography into the
momentous address he delivered at the un-
veiling of the Thayer Statue on June 11, 1883,
touting Thayer’s impact on West Point and
the nation. Consider this passage: ‘‘With
each evolving year of Colonel Thayer’s
Superintendency, class after class was grad-
uated, adding to our army 570 officers, of
whom the nation may be justly proud, for in
that galaxy are many bright particular stars
which have given lustre to our arms, illumi-
nated the paths of science, brightened halls
of learning, and adorned various vocations of
usefulness.’’ Cullum was perpetuating the
national institution of West Point by dem-
onstrating the perfections of its honorific fa-
ther. But this is not all that Cullum did as
the Association’s de facto leader.
Cullum had been Chairman of the Thayer
Monument Committee, which was estab-
lished at the June 12, 1873 annual meeting,
and was instrumental in bringing Thayer’s
remains from his hometown of South Brain-
tree, Massachusetts to West Point. This ac-
complishment could be viewed as the Asso-
ciation’s first official act of external busi-
ness (a year earlier the Executive Committee
resolved to have the body of Joseph Swift,
Class of 1802, exhumed and re-interred at the
West Point Cemetery, but this ambition
never materialized). Thayer’s remains were
re-interred at West Point on November 8,
1877, but the monument intended to honor
his memory remained unfinished, as only
$1,225 of an anticipated $3,100 had been raised
from graduates. At the 10th Annual Reunion
on June 12, 1879, feeling that the plans to ob-
tain funds to build a stone memorial of
Thayer for placement on the Plain were ‘‘im-
practical,’’ Cullum proposed that a smaller
monument be built over Thayer’s grave.
However, in his address at that reunion,
Cullum’s classmate Francis H. Smith, Class
of 1833, the first Southern graduate to speak
before AOG members, implored graduates
not to forget the original monument plan,
saying, ‘‘He was a noble specimen of West
Point character, and I trust the scheme will
not be abandoned of putting, in enduring
marble or bronze, a colossal statue of Brvt.
Brig. Gen. Sylvanus Thayer, the father of
the U.S. Military Academy.’’
A year later, at the 11th Annual Reunion,
George Andrews, Class of 1851, Treasurer of
the Thayer Monument Fund, reported that
all but $160 of the funds needed for the monu-
ment remained uncollected. The project was
further delayed when the committee hired
the New England Granite Company ‘‘to exe-
cute a statue eight feet three inches high,
standing upon a well-proportioned pedestal
of eight feet, both of pure white granite,’’
and the cost jumped to $4,000. To raise
money to cover the escalating cost, Cullum
reportedly addressed ‘‘personal letters to
each living graduate who has a diploma
signed by General Thayer.’’ In his June 10,
1882 Thayer Monument Committee report to
AOG’s Executive Committee, Cullum noted
that the statue would be ready by winter,
‘‘in ample time to be erected before the Re-
union of this Association in June 1883’’ (it
was completed on June. 9, 1883, which would
have been Thayer’s 98th birthday). At the
14th Annual Reunion on June 12, 1883,
Cullum furnished a final report on the
Thayer Monument to the Association, saying
the statue ‘‘is worthy of the great Super-
intendent, whose majestic port [sic] and in-
tellectual visage [it] so faithfully represents;
and it is worthy of this Association which
has preserved, amid so many difficulties, to
raise such a memorial to the ‘Father of the
Military Academy.’ ’’ Showing its apprecia-
tion for Cullum’s efforts to bring the Thayer
Monument to fruition, the Executive Com-
mittee unanimously passed a resolution that
thanked him for admirably performing his
duties.
A year after erecting Thayer Monument,
AOG moved on to its next order of major
business, another project that took years to
materialize and one that ultimately de-
pended greatly on Cullum. At the 15th An-
nual Reunion in 1884, John S. McCalmont,
Class of 1842, proposed that Congress should
be petitioned to make an appropriation for
the purposes of furnishing a hall for AOG use
at West Point, given that the Association
had received so many gifts of manuscripts,
portraits, books, letters, and more and had
no room to safely keep them or exhibit
them. The matter was tabled and reintro-
duced three years later at the 1887 meeting,
but members felt that the USMA Board of
Visitors would have better luck securing the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR8.006 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E283
March 11, 2019
funds from Congress for building such a hall
than their resolution. ‘‘The Association of
Graduates cannot raise the necessary
money,’’ Charles Braden, Class of 1869, AOG’s
Secretary at that time, flatly stated. Then,
given the lack of reference to it in meeting
notes, the Executive Committee seems to
forget about this idea for a memorial hall for
half a decade, but Cullum did not forget.
Upon his death, Cullum bequeathed $250,000
to the U.S. government for the purposes of
erecting such a hall at West Point.
According to a March 7, 1892 New York
Times article reporting on his will, Cullum’s
gift, ‘‘Follow[ed] an idea which he had for
some years entertained.’’ Part of that idea
likely involved Cullum’s 1891 proposal that
Executive Committee incorporate the Asso-
ciation under the laws ofNew York state.
The committee unanimously adopted
Cullum’s proposal and filed a certificate of
incorporation in November of that year. As
some have hypothesized, Cullum proposed
this idea because he had already made his es-
tate plans, and, rather than gift his consider-
able fortune to what might be characterized
as an informal fraternal club, he wanted to
leave it to an organization with legitimacy
and longevity. Furthermore, showing his
prescience, Cullum explicitly stated in his
will for the memorial hall to be built ‘‘at far-
thest within five years after my death’’ (per-
haps because he witnessed no movement on
an idea that originated in 1884!). Cullum’s be-
quest was formally accepted by an act of
Congress, and the architectural firm McKim,
Mead & White was appointed in 1894 to de-
sign the building. Construction began in 1896,
with the cornerstone being ceremoniously
laid on April 15, and construction was com-
pleted on December 21, 1898. After it was fur-
nished (Cullum also left $20,000 in his will for
this purpose), the hall was dedicated on June
12, 1900, the date of the 31st Annual Reunion.
According to a July 1900 article by Charles
Lamed, Class of 1870, in Junior Munsey Mag-
azine, ‘‘This hall is distinctly a monument to
West Point and all that it stands for, given
by a son of the Academy to his brother alum-
ni and their well beloved mother; designed to
commemorate their deeds, to preserve their
names, and to bear witness to the enduring
work of the foremost military school of the
age.’’
Thirty-one years after its founding, the As-
sociation of the Graduates of the U.S. Mili-
tary Academy had 473 members on its rolls,
and those members now had a home at West
Point. In his will, Cullum indicated that it
was his desire that the gifted memorial hall
be used for ‘‘the Assemblage and Dinners of
the Association of Graduates of the United
States Military Academy, and, if prac-
ticable, I wish that lodging accommodations
should be provided in some part of it for the
members of that Association while attending
its annual reunions.’’ Furthermore, they now
had funds. Cullum’s will also provided $10,000
for ‘‘the current and necessary expenses’’ of
the Association. This is the genesis of what
is now known as the West Point Association
of Graduates’ ‘‘Long Gray Line Endow-
ment.’’ While Cullum was Chairman of
AOG’s Executive Committee, AOG’s balance
sheet consistently ran between $1,000–$1,500,
but, thanks to his gift, it grew by 3 00 per-
cent in one year.
At the turn of the 20th century the Asso-
ciation, now with a home and with funds,
started to focus on growth and account-
ability. This began with two notable changes
to the Association’s Constitution and By-
laws. First, in 1897, the Executive Committee
decided that an elected graduate, rather that
the oldest graduate, would serve as the Asso-
ciation’s President, and voted accordingly to
change Article III of the Constitution. They
nominated George Greene, Class of 1823, to
be President, and he was unanimously elect-
ed (ironically, Greene was also the oldest
graduate on the Association’s membership
roll). Then, at the 1900 Annual Reunion, the
Executive Committee voted to amend the
Bylaws so that initiation fees were reduced
from a one-time $10 payment to an initial $2
fee with an additional $1 paid each subse-
quent year for the next decade. The prorated
fee cycle spurred growth in new membership.
In 1898, only three graduates elected to pay
the prescribed $10 initiation fee; in 1902,
more than 70 paid the new $2 fee. New mem-
bership also fostered more graduate partici-
pation. In 1899, only seven members attended
the 3Oth annual reunion, but in 1902 report-
edly some 350 graduates returned to West
Point for the annual alumni reunion.
During the dedication of Cullum Hall,
Alexander S. Webb, Class of 1855, who was
present in Webster’s office at the original
May 22, 1869 meeting, looked back on that
historic day and gave a brief account of the
organization of the Association. No records
exist of his remarks, but it is easy to imag-
ine he would have said that the 15 graduates
who gathered to form an ‘‘Association of the
Graduates of the U.S. Military Academy’’
would be proud that, 31 years later, their
idea had figuratively and literally found a
home, that more and more graduates were
coming back to that home each year, and
that the Association was continuing to pro-
mote the social intercourse and fraternal fel-
lowship of USMA graduates.’’
f
175TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE SAUK
COUNTY GOVERNMENT
HON. MARK POCAN
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. POCAN. Madam Speaker,
Whereas, the Sauk County Government is
celebrating its 175th anniversary and has
made a distinct impact in the state of Wis-
consin; and
Whereas, Sauk County was first established
in 1844 when Wisconsin’s Territorial Legisla-
ture passed an act organizing Sauk County;
and
Whereas, Sauk County, from its humble be-
ginnings of only a few hundred residents, has
grown along with the state of Wisconsin; and
Whereas, Sauk County is now one of the
top ten fastest growing counties in Wisconsin
with a population greater than 60,000; and
Whereas, Sauk County continues to gen-
erate some of the most significant numbers of
tourism in the Second Congressional District
of Wisconsin; and
Whereas, both the pioneers that helped
build Sauk County and the residents still living
there today deserve recognition; now, there-
fore, I, U.S. Representative MARK POCAN, do
hereby proclaim the Sauk County Government
on this special 175th anniversary, a keystone
to the ongoing growth and development of
Wisconsin.
On behalf of the Second Congressional Dis-
trict of Wisconsin, I wish the Sauk County
Government continued growth and success in
the years ahead.
RECOGNIZING JOHN ANDERSON
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize John Anderson of College Sta-
tion, Texas, for his leadership and service to
our Brazos Valley community.
John grew up in a military family and lived
all across the United States before settling in
El Paso, Texas where he attended the Univer-
sity of Texas-El Paso. He went on to serve in
the U.S. Army from 1968 to 1973 and in the
Army Reserve from 1973 to 1986. In 1986, he
moved with his wife, Ann, to the Brazos Val-
ley.
John came to the Brazos Valley to work at
Merrill Lynch, where he recently retired as a
vice president and senior consultant. Since
moving to our area, he has been involved with
many community organizations.
John has served on the boards of the Bryan
Rotary Club, the Bryan-College Station Cham-
ber of Commerce, MSC OPAS, Brazos Valley
Veterans Memorial, Boys and Girls Club of the
Brazos Valley, College Station Medical Center,
Habitat for Humanity, Military Heritage Center,
and the Brazos Valley Economic Development
Corporation.
John is credited with building a house for
Habitat for Humanity, the installing of statues
of Veterans Park, fundraising for the Bryan
Rotary Field of Valor, and building a museum
that honors veterans of our nation’s wars. He
assisted with building the Bryan-College Sta-
tion Chamber of Commerce’s federal and
state legislative plans. His dedication to the
greater community earned him their title of Cit-
izen of the Year in 2016.
John has also gone above and beyond to
positively impact younger generations. He has
mentored students at Texas A&M’s Mays
Business School, the Bush School of Govern-
ment and Public Service, and the McFerrin
Center for Entrepreneurship’s Entrepreneur-
ship Bootcamp, which serves disabled vet-
erans.
I am also blessed to have John serve as a
member of the Military Academy Review
Board which assists me in the nomination of
young Texans to attend our nation’s service
academies.
John and Ann have sponsored international
exchange students and served as host par-
ents. John ensures that the students have a
rich experience in the United States, bringing
them to Texas A&M football games, showing
them around campus, and bringing them to
Washington, D.C. to learn about our nation’s
history, all at his own expense.
In retirement, John is working to further his
education. He is currently enrolled at the Bush
School’s certificate in nonprofit management.
Once that is complete, he will work towards
the advanced international affairs certificate.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to speak on
behalf of all Brazos Valley Residents to thank
John Anderson for his selfless service to our
nation and to our communities. We also wish
him the best in his future endeavors.
As I close today, I urge all Americans to
continue praying for our country, for our vet-
erans, for our military men and women who
protect us, and for our first responders who
keep us safe at home.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR8.007 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E284 March 11, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF THE HIDDEN
FIGURES CONGRESSIONAL GOLD
MEDAL ACT
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
today I am joined by my good friend from
Oklahoma, Ranking Member LUCAS, in intro-
ducing the Hidden Figures Congressional Gold
Medal Act.
Katherine Johnson, Dr. Christine Darden,
Dorothy Vaughan, and Mary Jackson were
pioneers. At a time of male dominance and ra-
cial segregation at NASA, women and their
talents were often overlooked. When women
were permitted to contribute, they were rou-
tinely not given credit for their work. Women of
color faced additional daily indignities. In spite
of these challenges, these women chose to
apply their considerable talents to help land
the first man on the moon. Their stories, por-
trayed in the Hidden Figures book and film,
represent the stories of hundreds of women
computers, mathematicians, and engineers
working at NASA and its precursor organiza-
tion, the National Advisory Committee for Aer-
onautics (NACA), from the 1930s to the
1970s.
The success of the NASA space program is
due in large part to their brilliance, hard work,
and perseverance in the face of adversity.
What better example can we hope to give our
sons and daughters?
This bill will bestow Congress’s highest civil-
ian honor in appreciation of the achievements
of Katherine Johnson, Dr. Christine Darden,
Dorothy Vaughan, and Mary Jackson, and all
the women computers, mathematicians, and
engineers at NACA and NASA during this im-
portant time in our history.
I am pleased to be joined by Ranking Mem-
ber LUCAS and our colleagues in the Senate in
introducing the Hidden Figures Congressional
Gold Medal Act. I commend Senator COONS
for his leadership in championing this bill. Fifty
years after the Apollo 11 moon landing, it is
high time we recognize the contributions the
women of NASA have made in service to the
nation.
I urge my colleagues to join us and help us
move this legislation forward into law.
f
NEW HOPE PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH REOPENS AND CELE-
BRATES 40 YEARS
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the reopening of New Hope Pres-
byterian Church in Katy, Texas.
During Hurricane Harvey, the New Hope
Presbyterian Church sustained over $1.5 mil-
lion in flood damage. The reopening of the
church coincided with its 40 year anniversary.
Pastor Long and the 100 person congregation
have dedicated their church’s outreach efforts
on ways they can help and serve their com-
munity while growing in their faith. The church
also serves as the home to the Houston Ko-
rean Community Church and a food pantry for
the local community.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations to
New Hope Presbyterian Church on their new
facilities and 40th anniversary. Thank them
again for bringing faith, fellowship and service
to our community; we look forward to another
40 years.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 125TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE CARTHAGE
PUBLIC LIBRARY
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to recognize the Carthage Public Library of
Carthage, Illinois, for celebrating their 125th
anniversary.
In 1894, the Carthage Public Library was of-
ficially opened as a circulating library for the
residents of the city. Since then, the library
has grown immensely; it now provides the
community with far more than great reads.
The library has taken on its own role in the
area. This is where the residents of Carthage
go to stay current on local affairs, and where
the youth go to learn life skills that strengthen
both their mind and body.
The Carthage Public Library is known
throughout west-central Illinois for the services
that it has provided for the community over the
last 125 years. Today, we celebrate the library
and staff for their dedication to serving
Carthage. I extend my sincere congratulations
to the Carthage Public Library for a successful
125 years, and I wish them even more suc-
cess going forward.
f
BOBBY TARANGO HONORED BY
THE APPLE VALLEY OPTIMIST
CLUB
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the service and commitment of
Bobby Tarango, who was honored by the
Apple Valley Optimist Club on Saturday,
March 8.
Bobby Tarango has worked as a sales rep-
resentative for Chicago Title Company for the
past 22 years, where he has worked to make
Chicago Title one of the premier players in the
High Desert real estate industry. He has twice
served as the Affiliate Director for the Victor
Valley Association of Realtors, previously
served as Chairman of the Board for St. Timo-
thy’s Preparatory School in Apple Valley, and
currently serves on the board of directors for
the Victor Valley Chamber of Commerce and
the St. Mary’s Hospital Foundation Board. In
his spare time, Bobby enjoys coaching his
son’s and daughter’s soccer teams, and
serves as Vice President of Storm Soccer
Club and President of Storm Recreational
Soccer.
Bobby Tarango is consistently doing all he
can to make the High Desert a great place to
live and raise a family. I congratulate him on
being honored by the Apple Valley Optimist
Club, and I wish him years of happiness and
success.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF REP-
RESENTATIVE JOHN MARSH, JR.
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of John Otho ‘‘Jack’’
Marsh, Jr., who passed away on February 4,
2019. John was 92 years old.
Jack was known for his love for the commu-
nity and his years of public service. At the age
of eighteen, Jack enlisted in the United States
Army during World War II in Germany. From
1954 to 1976, Jack served in the Army Re-
serves and the Virginia National Guard 29th
Division. Not long after his service, Jack
earned a law degree and began a career in
politics. From 1963 to 1971, he served four
terms for what was then the 7th District of Vir-
ginia. Choosing not to seek a fifth term, he
continued his career as a Counselor in Presi-
dent Gerald Ford’s cabinet and eventually as
the Secretary of the Army for the longest time
in our nation’s history. From 1989–1994, Jack
served as Chairman of the Reserve Forces
Policy Board, a position he was appointed to
by former Secretary of Defense Cheney.
Congressman Marsh served for over two
decades on the Advisory Council of the Vir-
ginia Institute of Marine Sciences (VIMS) and
received the VIMS Pathfinder Award. Much of
their amazing work impacts my very own dis-
trict, as they work to meet the issues facing
the Chesapeake Bay and the coastal ocean.
Jack also served on the Board of Visitors at
Virginia Military Institute (VMI) and is one of
the few honorary alumni of VMI. Jack was
honored with the prestigious VMI New Market
Medal, for his public service and role in the
preservation and interpretation of the Hall of
Valor. The Commonwealth not only lost a pub-
lic servant and community leader, but also a
patriot who has dedicated his entire life to
serving our great nation.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in re-
membrance of John Otho ‘‘Jack’’ Marsh, Jr.
Words cannot express our gratitude. May God
bless Jack and his family as his legacy lives
on through his service.
f
COMMEMORATING BRAIN
AWARENESS WEEK
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, this
week commemorates Brain Awareness Week
which presents an important opportunity to
educate lawmakers, students, and the broader
public about brain science, and its many im-
pacts and benefits. This is critical when you
consider that brain disorders and diseases af-
fect the lives of nearly 100 million Ameri-
cans—from Alzheimer’s to ALS to mental ill-
ness.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A11MR8.010 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E285
March 11, 2019
Neurological and neurodegenerative dis-
orders are among the leading causes of dis-
ability in the United States and around the
world—greater than heart disease and cancer
put together. As society ages, this number will
increase exponentially as will the cost to the
healthcare system and to the economy. Yet,
the underlying causes of most neurological
diseases remain unknown.
Neuroscience is the next great frontier. Re-
search and work being done in this field needs
to be front and center in both the private world
and Congress.
The bipartisan Congressional Neuroscience
Caucus’ mission is to build awareness of the
intrinsic role brain research plays in under-
standing ourselves and our society. As the co-
founder and co-chair, I am committed to work-
ing on these important issues and hope my
colleagues will join our efforts as members of
the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
STEPHEN ROBERT SULENTIC
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the life of Stephen Robert
Sulentic, of Houston, who lost his twenty-
month long battle with Amyotrophic Lateral
Sclerosis (ALS) on December 18, 2018.
Stephen was born in Omaha, NE on May 3,
1958 to Phyllis Ann Sulentic and Stephen
John Sulentic. As a member of the Society of
Jesus, he strengthened his faith and devotion
to God. Stephen graduated summa cum laude
with a Bachelor of Arts from St. Louis Univer-
sity and later acquired a Master of Arts from
the University of Michigan and a Juris Doc-
torate degree from Harvard Law School. He
held many positions in his life ranging from at-
torney and teacher, to school bus driver and
door-to-door salesman. Stephen served as a
member of the Mount Lebanon Volunteer Fire
Department from 1998 to 2007, where he re-
ceived the Medal of Valor, the highest honor
given by the Mount Lebanon Volunteer Fire
Department, for going above and beyond the
call of duty. Stephen left a legacy behind in
his service to community and commitment to
family.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, we mourn the loss of
Stephen Robert Sulentic. We wish him fair
winds and following seas in heaven.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, on Fri-
day, I had a family commitment that caused
me to miss votes. Had I been able to vote, I
would have opposed H.R. 1.
CELEBRATING GINNY TAYLOR’S
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. VIRGINIA FOXX
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to wish Mrs. Ginny Taylor a
happy 100th birthday. It has been a delight
getting to know Mrs. Taylor and her family
since they began splitting their time between
homes in Greensboro and Land Harbor in
North Carolina’s Fifth District.
Mrs. Taylor is a mother of two, grandmother
of three, great-grandmother of six, and be-
loved by all of them. Shortly after moving to
North Carolina, her husband, Delmer, started
Delta Plating, and she went back to school to
learn how to keep books and even helped in
the plant and driving trucks for the company.
Mrs. Taylor remains an engaged citizen to
this day, especially in bridge circles and First
Baptist Church, where everyone enjoys her
pies.
At 100, I hope to be as full of life as Mrs.
Taylor, and I wish her a wonderful birthday
and many, many more to come.
f
RECOGNIZING AMERICAN LEGION
POST 159
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize American Legion Earl Graham
Post 159 for the 100th anniversary of their or-
ganization.
The American Legion was founded on
March 15, 1919 at the American Club in Paris
by members of the American Expeditionary
Forces. The organization was chartered by
Congress on September 16, 1919 as a patri-
otic veteran organization.
American Legion Post 159 was also first or-
ganized in Brazos County in 1919 and invita-
tions to join were published in the Bryan Eagle
newspaper beginning on February 6, 1920.
The post was formally chartered in Bryan,
Texas on February 13, 1920.
Post 159 is named in honor of 1st Lieuten-
ant Cyrus Earl Graham, a member of the
Texas A&M Class of 1916 who served in the
Army Air Corps during World War I.
Lieutenant Graham was born in Brazos
County and attended Texas A&M where he
was a member of the Ross Volunteers, and
graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree.
He volunteered for service in the Army Air
Corps and died in a plane crash in France in
1918, two days before the Armistice ending
the war. Several years later, his remains were
returned to the United States and he was bur-
ied in the Bryan City Cemetery. Every Novem-
ber 9th, the Post 159 Honor Guard pays their
respect to his memory at a ceremony at his
gravesite.
Since its inception, American Legion Post
159 has been a service and community mind-
ed organization. Post 159 committed 10,000
dollars to the Brazos Valley Veterans Memo-
rial to assist with the creation of a permanent
World War I memorial in Veterans Park. Every
month the Post sends 10 to 15 care boxes to
active duty service members who are over-
seas. They provide emergency financial as-
sistance to veterans in need, sponsor a vet-
eran’s resource fair, and host a weekly coffee
for our community’s veterans. Post 159’s
Honor Guard also provides services including
a rifle salute and the playing of TAPS for over
70 veteran funerals each year.
Additionally, Post 159, and its Auxiliary,
sponsor at least 20 high school seniors yearly
to the American Legion’s Boys and Girls State
conference. They also sponsor Boy Scout
Troop 159 and the Junior Shooting Sports
Program.
Madam Speaker, American Legion Earl Gra-
ham Post 159 has had a deep impact in the
Brazos Valley since their organization in 1919.
Their service to current members of the armed
forces, veterans, and youth of the community
cannot be overstated.
I have requested that a United States flag
be flown over our Nation’s Capitol to honor the
work and legacy of Earl Graham Post 159 and
its members.
As I close today, I urge all Americans to
continue praying for our country, for our vet-
erans, for our military men and women who
protect us, and for our first responders who
keep us safe at home.
f
WARREN PHILLIPS NAMED SUGAR
LAND EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Warren Phillips for being named
the 2018 Sugar Land Employee of the Year.
Warren is a firefighter and paramedic with
the Sugar Land Fire-EMS Department and
also serves on the West Fort Bend Regional
SWAT Team. He was nominated and awarded
this high honor by his peers for his unwaver-
ing commitment to our Sugar Land community
and its citizens. Working with the Sugar
Land—Ironman Sports Medicine Institute,
Warren implemented a ‘‘Tactical Athlete Pro-
gram’’ for the SWAT team and teaches a com-
bat casualty care class for local police depart-
ments. Warren is also a U.S. Army veteran.
His service and dedication to both the United
States and Texas help keep us safe and free.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations to
Warren Phillips on being named the 2018
Sugar Land Employee of the Year. I thank him
for his service to our Sugar Land community.
f
REMEMBERING MORGAN NELSON
HON. XOCHITL TORRES SMALL
OF NEW MEXICO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexcio.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to remember
and honor the life of an important and re-
spected member of the southern New Mexico
community, Morgan Nelson, who on March 1,
2019 passed away at the age of 99. Morgan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A11MR8.015 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E286 March 11, 2019
was a champion of water, cotton, and edu-
cation—issues he fought for as a private cit-
izen and as a Representative in the New Mex-
ico State Legislature, where he served for 12
years. His proudest achievement was the pro-
posal and enactment of the junior-college sys-
tem for New Mexico. Later in life, Morgan and
his wife Joyce established two endowed schol-
arships, one with the New Mexico State Uni-
versity (NMSU) Foundation and one with the
Eastern New Mexico University—Roswell
(ENMU–R) Foundation. Morgan served on the
Chaves County Community Corrections Advi-
sory Panel and strongly advocated for commu-
nity based mental health services. He also
served as Flood Commissioner for Chaves
County for the past 10 years, up until the day
he died.
After graduating from New Mexico College
of Agriculture and Mechanical Arts (now New
Mexico State University), Morgan served in
World War II for 5 years in the Middle East
and Europe. He later served in Korea, ulti-
mately leaving the service with the rank of
Colonel after 20 years with the U.S. Air Force
Reserve.
Upon returning to New Mexico after World
War II, Morgan joined his family’s farms in
Cottonwood and East Grand Plains, and he
farmed the rest of his life. He was particularly
active in promoting cotton, serving over 20
years on the Cotton Incorporated (CI) Board of
Directors, becoming president of the 1517
Cotton Association, working as a member of
the Board of Directors of the Southwestern Ir-
rigated Cotton Growers (SWIG), and staying
active in the NMSU College of Agriculture’s
cotton research and promotion. Morgan
earned the nickname ‘‘Mr. Cotton’’ and was
among the first five inductees into the Cotton’s
Hall of Fame in 2014.
Morgan’s family included his wife, Joyce
LaSuer Walsh Nelson, who passed away in
2008 after 58 years of marriage. They have
three daughters, Margo Eichwald, Ann
Houghtaling, and Jane McLaughlin, seven
grandchildren and numerous great and great-
great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, Morgan Nelson’s impact
on southern New Mexico and our region can-
not be overstated. I ask that my colleagues
join me in remembering him for his tireless
service and dedication. I join his family, friends
and all of New Mexico to honor his legacy and
celebrate his life.
f
UNCF 75TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. ALMA S. ADAMS
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in honor of the 75th anniversary of the United
Negro College Fund.
UNCF was founded in 1944 by Frederick
Douglass Patterson to help increase the num-
ber of black Americans enrolled in college.
In honor of UNCF’s remarkable achieve-
ments, last week I joined with my colleague
and Bipartisan HBCU Caucus Co-Chair Rep-
resentative BRADLEY BYRNE to introduce a res-
olution honoring UNCF as a strong organiza-
tion that has a profound mission to build a ro-
bust and nationally recognized pipeline of stu-
dents that will become leaders in our 21st
century workforce.
In the past 75 years, UNCF has raised over
$4.8 billion in scholarship aid for students and
annually awards scholarships and internships
to more than 10,000 students nationwide.
Due to the work of UNCF, more than 445
thousand students have earned college de-
grees and proven true their old adage of ‘‘a
mind is a terrible thing to waste—but a won-
derful thing to invest in.’’
Happy anniversary UNCF Here’s to another
75 years of proven, effective advocacy.
f
EXPLANATION REGARDING
COSPONSORING A BILL
HON. BRAD SHERMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. SHERMAN. Madam Speaker, on
Wednesday, September 29, 2010 I stated for
the RECORD:
‘‘Madam Speaker, I wish to clarify that
when I cosponsor a bill, it does not nec-
essarily mean that I agree with every part of
it. At a minimum, my cosponsorship indi-
cates that I support moving the bill forward
through the legislative process, including
being marked up in committee, and if sent to
the floor by the relevant committee(s), then
subject to consideration and amendment on
the floor.’’
Let me reiterate that 2010 statement and
provide additional background.
I believe in the legislative process. I believe
bills are improved during committee mark-ups
and by consideration of amendments on the
floor.
The effect of cosponsoring a bill is to signal
to the relevant committee chair(s) that I be-
lieve the bill should be marked-up in com-
mittee, a process that may well improve the
bill (and in some cases may make the bill
worse). When I decide to cosponsor a bill after
it has completed the committee process, I do
signal to the Speaker and Rules Committee
that I believe the bill should be considered on
the floor, and almost always under an open
rule.
f
CONGRATULATING JOHN HEALEY
ON HIS RETIREMENT
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 11, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Fort Bend District Attorney
John Healey on his retirement.
John Healey spent his 37 year long career
serving the folks of Fort Bend County in the
office of the District Attorney, including 26
years as the county’s top prosecutor. Since
beginning in the District Attorney’s Office in
January of 1982, John successfully handled
thousands of cases with dignity and compas-
sion. John’s commitment to our community
and his dedication to those he has served de-
serves our utmost respect and gratitude.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to John Healey on his retirement. May he
have fair winds and following seas in his re-
tirement.
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday,
March 12, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
MARCH 13
Time to be announced
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nation of John Lowry III, of Illinois, to
be Assistant Secretary of Labor for
Veterans’ Employment and Training.
TBA
10 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland,
to be Chairman, and to be a Commis-
sioner of the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission.
SR–328A
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
the Air Force.
SD–192
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine the new
space race, focusing on ensuring United
States global leadership on the final
frontier.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine an original
bill entitled, ‘‘Diesel Emissions Reduc-
tion Act of 2019’’.
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Daniel P. Collins, and Kenneth
Kiyul Lee, both of California, both to
be a United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit.
SD–226
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine a new ap-
proach for an era of United States-
China competition.
SD–419
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To receive a closed briefing on the most
significant threats to United States
Naval Forces and how Naval Forces
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11MR8.021 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E287
March 11, 2019
plan to operate in a contested environ-
ment.
SVC–217
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020.
SD–608
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the United States Patent and Trade-
mark Office.
SD–226
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine cyber crime,
focusing on the threat to small busi-
nesses.
SR–428A
MARCH 14
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the Depart-
ment of Defense budget posture in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine the Ebola
outbreak in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and other emerging
health threats.
SD–124
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine Financial
Stability Oversight Council nonbank
designations.
SD–538
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine opportuni-
ties to improve access, infrastructure,
and permitting for outdoor recreation.
SD–366
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Department of
Health and Human Services.
SD–215
1:30 p.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Department of the
Treasury.
SD–215
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
Closed business meeting to consider
pending intelligence matters.
SH–219
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M11MR8.000 E11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D243
Monday, March 11, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1749–S1767
Measures Introduced: Five bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 733–737, and
S. Res. 102–103. Page S1762
Measures Passed:
National Assistive Technology Awareness Day:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 103, designating March 27,
2019, as ‘‘National Assistive Technology Awareness
Day’’. Page S1765
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, the Budget of the
United States Government for Fiscal Year 2020; re-
ferred jointly, pursuant to the order of January 30,
1975, as modified by the order of April 11, 1986;
which was referred to the Committees on the Budg-
et; and Appropriations. (PM–5) Pages S1760–61
Matey Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Paul B. Matey, of
New Jersey, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Third Circuit. Pages S1749–59
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 50 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. EX. 41), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S1754
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that all post-cloture time on the nomination
expire at 2:30 p.m., on Tuesday, March 12, 2019.
Page S1759
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday,
March 12, 2019. Page S1765
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be Secretary of
the Interior.
John Linder, of Georgia, to be Representative of
the United States of America to the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank and status of
Ambassador.
Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Virginia, to be United
States Executive Director of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development for a term of
two years.
John McLeod Barger, of California, to be a Gov-
ernor of the United States Postal Service for a term
expiring December 8, 2021.
Rainey R. Brandt, of the District of Columbia, to
be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years.
Shana Frost Matini, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen
years.
Michael S. Bogren, of Michigan, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Michigan.
Jeffrey Vincent Brown, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Texas.
Stephanie Dawkins Davis, of Michigan, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Michigan.
Brantley Starr, of Texas, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of Texas.
Page S1767
Messages from the House: Page S1761
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S1761, S1765
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S1761
Executive Communications: Pages S1761–62
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S1762
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1762–64
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S1764
Additional Statements: Pages S1759–60
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S1764
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—41) Page S1754
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D244 March 11, 2019
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:27 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday,
March 12, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S1765.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee ordered favorably reported the
nominations of Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be
an Assistant Secretary, and Joseph V. Cuffari, of Ari-
zona, to be Inspector General, both of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 16 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1662–1677; and 9 resolutions, H.
Res. 207 and 209–216, were introduced.
Pages H2646–47
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2647–48
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 208, providing for consideration of the
concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 24) expressing
the sense of Congress that the report of Special
Counsel Mueller should be made available to the
public and to Congress, and providing for pro-
ceedings during the period from March 15, 2019,
through March 22, 2019 (H. Rept. 116–17).
Page H2646
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Kildee to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H2617
Recess: The House recessed at 12:02 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H2617
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rev. Meg Peery McLaughlin, Burke
Presbyterian Church, Burke, VA. Page H2617
Recess: The House recessed at 2:07 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:01 p.m. Page H2618
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Housing Choice Voucher Mobility Demonstra-
tion Act of 2019: H.R. 1122, to authorize the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development to carry
out a housing choice voucher mobility demonstration
to encourage families receiving such voucher assist-
ance to move to lower-poverty areas and expand ac-
cess to opportunity areas, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote
of 387 yeas to 22 nays, Roll No. 119;
Pages H2618–20, H2626–27
Federal Reserve Supervision Testimony Clari-
fication Act: H.R. 974, amended, to amend the Fed-
eral Reserve Act to require the Vice Chairman for
Supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System to provide a written report;
Pages H2620–21
FinCEN Improvement Act of 2019: H.R. 1414,
to amend the duties of the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network (FinCEN) to ensure FinCEN works
with Tribal law enforcement agencies, protects
against all forms of terrorism, and focuses on virtual
currencies; and Pages H2621–23
Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and
Watch Act of 2019: H.R. 758, amended, to provide
a safe harbor for financial institutions that maintain
a customer account or customer transaction at the re-
quest of a Federal or State law enforcement agency,
by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 404 yeas to 7 nays, Roll
No. 120. Pages H2623–25, H2627
Recess: The House recessed at 4:58 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H2626
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he transmitted to Congress his
Budget of the United States Government for Fiscal
Year 2020—referred to the Committee on Appro-
priations and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–3).
Pages H2625–26
Senate Referral: S. 725 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform. Page H2626
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H2626.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D245
March 11, 2019
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H2626–27 and H2627. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 8:45 p.m.
Committee Meetings
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CONGRESS
THAT THE REPORT OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
MUELLER SHOULD BE MADE AVAILABLE
TO THE PUBLIC AND TO CONGRESS
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H. Con. Res. 24, expressing the sense of Congress
that the report of Special Counsel Mueller should be
made available to the public and to Congress. The
Committee granted, by nonrecord vote, a closed rule
providing for consideration of H. Con. Res. 24, Ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that the report of Spe-
cial Counsel Mueller should be made available to the
public and to Congress. The rule provides one hour
of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
the Judiciary. The rule waives all points of order
against consideration of the concurrent resolution.
The rule provides that the amendments to the con-
current resolution and the preamble printed in the
Rules Committee report shall be considered as
adopted and the concurrent resolution, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against provisions in the concurrent
resolution, as amended. Section 2 of the rule pro-
vides that on any legislative day during the period
from March 15, 2019, through March 22, 2019: the
Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall
be considered as approved; and the Chair may at any
time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date
and time to be announced by the Chair in declaring
the adjournment. Section 3 of the rule provides that
the Speaker may appoint Members to perform the
duties of the Chair for the duration of the period ad-
dressed by section 2. Testimony was heard from
Representatives Cohen and Collins of Georgia.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D178)
S. 483, to enact into law a bill by reference.
Signed on March 8, 2019. (Public Law 116–8)
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
MARCH 12, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Emerging
Threats and Capabilities, to hold hearings to examine ar-
tificial intelligence initiatives within the Department of
Defense, 2:30 p.m., SR–232A.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: busi-
ness meeting to consider the nominations of Jeffrey
Nadaner, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of
Commerce, Claudia Slacik, of New York, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of
the United States, and Thelma Drake, of Virginia, to be
Federal Transit Administrator; to be immediately fol-
lowed by a hearing to examine the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau’s Semi-Annual Report to Congress, 10
a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Communications, Technology, Innovation,
and the Internet, to hold hearings to examine the impact
of broadband investments in rural America, 2:30 p.m.,
SH–216.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine the
road ahead for the World Trade Organization, 10:15
a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Ecuador, and Ron-
ald Douglas Johnson, of Florida, to be Ambassador to the
Republic of El Salvador, both of the Department of State,
10 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine reauthorizing the Higher Edu-
cation Act, focusing on simplifying the Free Application
for Federal Student Aid and reducing the burden of
verification, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine recommendations from the
President’s task force on the United States Postal Service,
focusing on a path to sustainability, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: to hold an oversight hear-
ing to examine Indian programs on the Government Ac-
countability Office High Risk List, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
GDPR and CCPA, focusing on opt-ins, consumer control,
and the impact on competition and innovation, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold a joint hearing
with the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to exam-
ine the legislative presentation of multiple veterans serv-
ice organizations, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2:45 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Financial
Services and General Government, hearing entitled
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D246 March 11, 2019
‘‘Treasury’s Role in Combatting Financial Crimes’’, 10
a.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, budget hearing
on the House of Representatives, 10 a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs, hearing entitled ‘‘Public Witness Testi-
mony’’, 10 a.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies, oversight hearing on the Department of
Justice, Civil Rights Division, 10:30 a.m., H–309, Cap-
itol.
Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on Related
Agencies, 10:30 a.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, budget hearing
on the United States Capitol Police, 11 a.m., HT–2 Cap-
itol.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Transportation,
and Housing and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Stakeholder Perspectives: Pas-
senger Rail Development’’, 11 a.m., 2358–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies,
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of For-Profit Colleges: Pro-
tecting Students and Taxpayer Dollars from Predatory
Practices’’, 2 p.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies,
oversight hearing on the Department of Agriculture, Of-
fice of the Inspector General, 2:30 p.m., 2362–A Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, hearing entitled ‘‘Update on Recovery Efforts for
2017 and 2018 Disasters’’, 2:30 p.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Military
Personnel, hearing entitled ‘‘Outside Perspectives on
Military Personnel Policy’’, 2 p.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The President’s 2020 Budget’’, 10 a.m., 210 Can-
non.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services, hearing entitled
‘‘Growing a Healthy Next Generation: Examining Federal
Child Nutrition Programs’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Leg-
islating to Safeguard the Free and Open Internet’’, 11
a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘The Fiscal
Year 2020 HHS Budget’’, 12 p.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Holding Megabanks Accountable: An Examina-
tion of Wells Fargo’s Pattern of Consumer Abuses’’, 10
a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Cy-
bersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Innovation,
hearing entitled ‘‘Securing Our Nation’s Chemical Facili-
ties: Stakeholder Perspectives on Improving the CFATS
Program’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
business meeting on Committee Resolution 116–08, and
hearing entitled ‘‘Committee Funding for the 116th Con-
gress’’, 2 p.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on the Con-
stitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘History and Enforcement of the Voting Rights Act
of 1965’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Immigration and Citizenship, busi-
ness meeting on adoption of the Subcommittee’s Rules of
Procedure and Statement of Policy for Private Immigra-
tion Bills; and Request for DHS Departmental Reports
on the Beneficiaries of H.R. 1548, 11 a.m., 2237 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial, and Admin-
istrative Law, hearing entitled ‘‘The State of Competition
in the Wireless Market: Examining the Impact of the
Proposed Merger of T-Mobile and Sprint on Consumers,
Workers, and the Internet’’, 2 p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the
Policies and Priorities of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, the United States Forest Service, and the Power
Marketing Administrations’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘WOW 101: The State of Wildlife’’, 2 p.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Economic and Consumer Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘Exam-
ining the Public Health Risks of Carcinogens in Con-
sumer Products’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Research and Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Engineer-
ing Our Way to a Sustainable Bioeconomy’’, 10 a.m.,
2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Rural
Development, Agriculture, Trade, and Entrepreneurship,
hearing entitled ‘‘Challenges in SBA’s State Trade Expan-
sion Program’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Aviation, hearing entitled ‘‘Looking For-
ward: Aviation 2050’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Social
Security, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting and Improving So-
cial Security: Enhancing Social Security to Strengthen the
Middle Class’’, 10 a.m., 2020 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Temporary Policy in the Internal Revenue Code’’,
2 p.m., 1100 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, Full
Committee, organizational meeting, 9 a.m., H–313 Cap-
itol.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 9:30
a.m., H–313 Capitol.
Joint Meetings
Joint Hearing: Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
to hold a joint hearing with the House Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs to examine the legislative presentation of
multiple veterans service organizations, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D247
March 11, 2019
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of March 12 through March 15, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit,
post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the nomi-
nation at 2:30 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Paul
B. Matey, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of Neomi J. Rao, of the
District of Columbia, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: March
13, to hold hearings to examine the nominations of
Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be Chairman, and to
be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, 10 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Appropriations: March 13, Subcommittee
on Department of Defense, to hold hearings to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of the Air Force, 10 a.m.,
SD–192.
March 14, Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related
Agencies, to hold hearings to examine the Ebola outbreak
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and other
emerging health threats, 10 a.m., SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: March 12, Subcommittee
on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, to hold hearings
to examine artificial intelligence initiatives within the
Department of Defense, 2:30 p.m., SR–232A.
March 13, Subcommittee on SeaPower, to receive a
closed briefing on the most significant threats to United
States Naval Forces and how Naval Forces plan to operate
in a contested environment, 10:30 a.m., SVC–217.
March 14, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the Department of Defense budget posture in review
of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the Future Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
March 12, business meeting to consider the nominations
of Jeffrey Nadaner, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce, Claudia Slacik, of New York, to be
a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import
Bank of the United States, and Thelma Drake, of Vir-
ginia, to be Federal Transit Administrator; to be imme-
diately followed by a hearing to examine the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau’s Semi-Annual Report to
Congress, 10 a.m., SD–538.
March 14, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine Financial Stability Oversight Council nonbank des-
ignations, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on the Budget: March 13, to hold hearings to
examine the President’s proposed budget request for fiscal
year 2020, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: March
12, Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, In-
novation, and the Internet, to hold hearings to examine
the impact of broadband investments in rural America,
2:30 p.m., SH–216.
March 13, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the new space race, focusing on ensuring United
States global leadership on the final frontier, 10 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: March 14, to
hold hearings to examine opportunities to improve access,
infrastructure, and permitting for outdoor recreation, 10
a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: March 13,
to hold hearings to examine an original bill entitled,
‘‘Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Finance: March 12, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the road ahead for the World Trade Organization,
10:15 a.m., SD–215.
March 14, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the President’s proposed budget request for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of Health and Human Services,
10:15 a.m., SD–215.
March 14, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the President’s proposed budget request for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of the Treasury, 1:30 p.m.,
SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: March 12, to hold hear-
ings to examine the nominations of Michael J.
Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Repub-
lic of Ecuador, and Ronald Douglas Johnson, of Florida,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of El Salvador, both
of the Department of State, 10 a.m., SD–419.
March 13, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine a new approach for an era of United States-China
competition, 10:15 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
March 12, to hold hearings to examine reauthorizing the
Higher Education Act, focusing on simplifying the Free
Application for Federal Student Aid and reducing the
burden of verification, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
March 12, to hold hearings to examine recommendations
from the President’s task force on the United States Post-
al Service, focusing on a path to sustainability, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: March 12, to hold an over-
sight hearing to examine Indian programs on the Govern-
ment Accountability Office High Risk List, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: March 12, to hold hearings
to examine GDPR and CCPA, focusing on opt-ins, con-
sumer control, and the impact on competition and inno-
vation, 10 a.m., SD–226.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D248 March 11, 2019
March 13, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Daniel P. Collins, and Kenneth
Kiyul Lee, both of California, both to be a United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, 10 a.m., SD–226.
March 13, Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, to
hold an oversight hearing to examine the United States
Patent and Trademark Office, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: March
13, to hold hearings to examine cyber crime, focusing on
the threat to small businesses, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: March 12, to hold a joint
hearing with the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
to examine the legislative presentation of multiple vet-
erans service organizations, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
March 13, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider the nomination of John Lowry III, of Illinois, to be
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment
and Training, Time to be announced, Room to be an-
nounced.
Select Committee on Intelligence: March 12, to hold closed
hearings to examine certain intelligence matters, 2:45
p.m., SH–219.
March 14, Full Committee, closed business meeting to
consider pending intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Appropriations, March 13, Subcommittee
on Financial Services and General Government, oversight
hearing on the General Services Administration, 10 a.m.,
2362–A Rayburn.
March 13, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Gun Vi-
olence Prevention and Enforcement’’, 10:30 a.m., H–309
Capitol.
March 13, Subcommittee on the Departments of
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Stakeholder Per-
spectives: Building Resilient Communities’’, 10 a.m.,
2358–A Rayburn.
March 13, Subcommittee on Military Construction,
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, budget hearing
on the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspec-
tor General, 11 a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
March 13, Subcommittee on the Department of Home-
land Security, hearing entitled ‘‘Securing Federal Net-
works and State Election Systems’’, 2 p.m., 2008 Ray-
burn.
March 13, Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, Education, and Related
Agencies, budget hearing on the Department of Health
and Human Services, 2 p.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, March 13, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘National Security Challenges and U.S.
Military Activity in Europe’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
March 13, Subcommittee on Readiness, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Ensuring Resiliency of Military Installations and
Operations in Response to Climate Changes’’, 2 p.m.,
2212 Rayburn.
March 13, Subcommittee on Intelligence and Emerg-
ing Threats and Capabilities, hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal
Year 2020 Budget Request for U.S. Cyber Command and
Operations in Cyberspace’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
March 14, Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection
Forces, hearing entitled ‘‘Department of the Air Force
Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Request for Seapower and Pro-
jection Forces’’, 10 a.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, March 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost of College: Student
Centered Reforms to Bring Higher Education Within
Reach’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
March 14, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Members
Day Hearing: Committee on Education and Labor’’,
10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, March 13, Sub-
committee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Lowering the
Cost of Prescription Drugs: Reducing Barriers to Market
Competition’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
March 13, Subcommittee on Environment and Climate
Change, hearing entitled ‘‘Mismanaging Chemical Risks:
EPA’s Failure to Protect Workers’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322
Rayburn.
March 14, Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and
Commerce, hearing entitled ‘‘Enhancing Vehicle Tech-
nology to Prevent Drunk Driving’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Financial Services, March 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Preparing for the Storm: Reau-
thorization of the National Flood Insurance Program,’’ 10
a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
March 13, Subcommittee on National Security, Inter-
national Development, and Monetary Policy, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Promoting Corporate Transparency: Examining Leg-
islative Proposals to Detect and Deter Financial Crime’’
2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
March 14, Subcommittee on Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets, hearing entitled
‘‘Putting Investors First? Examining the SEC’s Best Inter-
est Rule’’, 9:30 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, March 13, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘NATO at 70: An Indispensable Alli-
ance’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
March 13, Full Committee, hearing on H.R. 1004, the
‘‘Prohibiting Unauthorized Military Action in Venezuela
Act’’, 4 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
March 14, Full Committee, markup on H.R. 920, the
‘‘Venezuela Arms Restriction Act’’; H.R. 854, the ‘‘Hu-
manitarian Assistance to the Venezuelan People Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 1477, to assess and mitigate threats
posed by Russian-Venezuelan security cooperation and for
other purposes, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, March 13, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 1232, the ‘‘Rescinding DHS’
Waiver Authority for Border Wall Act’’; H.R.1433, the
‘‘DHS MORALE Act’’; H.R. 1589, the ‘‘CBRN Intel-
ligence and Information Sharing Act of 2019’’; H.R.
1590, the ‘‘Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1593, the ‘‘CLASS Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 1598, the ‘‘U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Rural and Remote Hiring and Retention Strategy Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 1639, the ‘‘CBP Workload Staffing
Model Act’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D249
March 11, 2019
March 13, Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness,
Response and Recovery, hearing entitled ‘‘Improving the
Federal Response: Perspectives on the State of Emergency
Management’’, 2 p.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, March 13, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, March 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Forgotten Voices: The Inad-
equate Review and Improper Alteration of Our National
Monuments’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
March 14, Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the
United States, hearing entitled ‘‘Unmasking the Hidden
Crisis of Murdered and Missing Indigenous Women
(MMIW): Exploring Solutions to End the Cycle of Vio-
lence’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, March 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘FOIA: Examining Transparency
Under the Trump Administration’’, 9:30 a.m., 2154 Ray-
burn.
March 13, Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil
Liberties; and Subcommittee on Government Operations,
joint hearing on H.R. 1076, the ‘‘Fair Chance to Com-
pete for Jobs Act’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
March 14, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing
with Commerce Secretary Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.’’, 10 a.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, March 13,
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘America in Space: Fu-
ture Visions, Current Issues’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, March 13, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Flipping the Switch on Rural Digital
Entrepreneurship’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, March 13,
Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, hearing entitled
‘‘Aligning Federal Surface Transportation Policy to Meet
21st Century Needs’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, March 13, Subcommittee
on Social Security, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting and Im-
proving Social Security: Benefit Enhancements’’, 2 p.m.,
2020 Rayburn.
March 14, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The
President’s Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Proposal with U.S.
Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin’’, 9 a.m., 1100
Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Joint Hearing: March 12, Senate Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, to hold a joint hearing with the House
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to examine the legislative
presentation of multiple veterans service organizations, 10
a.m., SD–G50.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D250 March 11, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, March 12
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit,
post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the nomination
at 2:30 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Paul B.
Matey, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture
on the nomination of Neomi J. Rao, of the District of
Columbia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Dis-
trict of Columbia Circuit.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, March 12
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of H. Con. Res.
24—Expressing the sense of Congress that the report of
Special Counsel Mueller should be made available to the
public and to Congress (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Adams, Alma S., N.C., E286
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E285
Cook, Paul, Calif., E281, E284
Crawford, Eric A. ‘‘Rick’’, Ark., E285
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E281
Flores, Bill, Tex., E283, E285
Foxx, Virginia, N.C., E285
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E279
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E284
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E284
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E279
Olson, Pete, Tex., E280, E284, E285, E285, E286
Pocan, Mark, Wisc., E283
Roby, Martha, Ala., E279
Schiff, Adam B., Calif., E279
Sherman, Brad, Calif., E286
Shimkus, John, Ill., E281
Steil, Bryan, Wisc., E279
Torres Small, Xochitl, N.M., E286
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E284
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:07 Mar 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D11MR9.REC D11MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
