Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6411
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019 No. 177
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Friday, November 8, 2019, at 1 p.m.
Senate
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2019
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, thank You for not leav-
ing us alone in a challenging world.
You remain our refuge in every storm.
We call You when troubles come, and
You rescue us even from self-inflicted
wounds. You clean up our debris, re-
storing us to Your sweet fellowship.
As our lawmakers commit this day
to You, help them navigate through its
turbulence. May Your Spirit impinge
on their minds, guiding them by the
light of Your truth. Lord, be the re-
source they need to be faithful stew-
ards of Your unfolding providence.
We pray in Your gracious Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
would like to speak for 1 minute as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Oh boy, I have had
to scratch my head upon hearing some
criticism of the Finance Committee’s
Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction
Act from supposedly fiscally conserv-
ative, pro-taxpayer organizations, to
mention a couple, like FreedomWorks
and Americans for Tax Reform.
The Grassley-Wyden bipartisan bill
ought to have a lot of support. It would
save taxpayers more than $100 billion.
You would think fiscally conservative
organizations would want to back that.
Of course, some of these fiscally con-
servative organizations receive sub-
stantial funding from Big Pharma.
I can’t think of a better opportunity
to enact bipartisan entitlement reform
that would significantly lower the debt
and help rein in entitlement spending
bill. This bill happens to be judged by
the Congressional Budget Office, a non-
partisan group working for the Con-
gress as a whole, saying that it would
save a little over $100 billion.
Reining in entitlement spending is a
goal that I campaigned on, and nearly
every one of my Republican colleagues
have campaigned on that same plat-
form. Now is the chance to carry out
those campaign promises, in other
words, to stand on the platform you
ran on.
In an era of gridlock and partisan-
ship, do supporters of less government
spending and balanced budgets really
think their goal could be achieved
without bipartisanship? Nothing gets
done in the U.S. Senate that isn’t
somewhat bipartisan. The good news is
that my legislation is bipartisan, and
support for the bill is growing every
day.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yes-
terday, the Senate confirmed David
Tapp of Kentucky to serve on the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims. Today, we
will turn to more of President Trump’s
impressive nominees for the Federal
Judiciary.
Last week, Senate Republicans had
hoped to proceed to the urgent priority
of funding our national defense, but for
the second time in 2 months, Senate
Democrats filibustered defense fund-
ing. They blocked the Senate from
funding our Armed Forces.
Over the summer, the Speaker of the
House and my colleague the Demo-
cratic leader both signed onto a bipar-
tisan, bicameral budget deal that
Democrats hammered out with Presi-
dent Trump’s team in order to avoid
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.000 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6412 November 6, 2019
exactly—exactly—the kind of partisan
stalemate that we are now experi-
encing and avoid a 12-bill omnibus. The
agreement laid out specific top-line
numbers and ruled out poison pills—
the agreement we all reached just a
couple of months ago.
With respect to Presidential transfer
authorities, the agreement that we all
agreed to 2 months ago specifically
stated that ‘‘current transfer funding
levels and authorities shall be main-
tained.’’ The President’s transfers au-
thorities as they relate to border fund-
ing, or anything else, were to remain
exactly as they existed in current law.
This is the deal we signed off on just 2
months ago. The deal just simply pre-
serves the status quo that was estab-
lished by bipartisan legislation last fis-
cal year. The same transfer authori-
ties, by the way, would also be pre-
served if Democrats tank the appro-
priations process and we end up with a
continuing resolution. That was the
deal. Democrats were onboard. I en-
tered the terms into the CONGRES-
SIONAL RECORD and both the Speaker
and the Senate Democratic leader post-
ed the terms of the deal in their press
release, but now our Democratic coun-
terparts have gone back on their word.
Contrary to the agreement, Demo-
crats are now insisting on poison pills
and, thus, blocking the resources and
certainty our men and women in uni-
form need.
While Senate Democrats block de-
fense funding, House Democrats con-
tinue to hold up USMCA and the 176,000
new American jobs it would create. All
their time and energy seems to go to
House Democrats’ 3-year-old impeach-
ment journey and the unfair, prece-
dent-breaking process by which the
House has conducted its inquiry so far.
Last week, House Democrats passed
their first votes on impeachment and
codified their irregular process. They
passed a resolution that fails—fails—to
provide President Trump the same
rights and due process that past Presi-
dents of both parties have received.
Here is what the Democrats’ resolu-
tion effectively says: No due process
now, maybe some later, but only if we
feel like it. I repeat: No due process
now, maybe some later, but only if we
feel like it.
Well, while we wait for our Demo-
cratic counterparts to come back to
the table and allow this body to com-
plete urgent bipartisan legislation, we
are going to continue confirming more
of President Trump’s impressive nomi-
nees and giving the American people
the government they actually voted
for.
f
FIRST AMENDMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
now, on another matter, I have come to
the floor frequently in recent months
to warn about dangerous anti-speech,
anti-First Amendment headwinds blow-
ing out of Washington, DC. I have
warned about proposals from our
Democratic colleagues that seemed tai-
lor-made to chill the free exchange of
ideas and make it more difficult for
Americans to engage in political
speech.
Just a few days ago, on October 23, I
explained how the threat of heavy reg-
ulatory burden has already ‘‘frightened
media platforms into rejecting polit-
ical ads altogether. It’s a textbook ex-
ample of policy designed to reduce the
amount of free speech in this country.’’
Then, 7 days later, here is what hap-
pened. Twitter announced that their
platform will ban all political ads. The
online platform is banning advertise-
ments for candidates for office and po-
litical campaigns.
What is more, they say they are also
banning issue ads, which do not even
reference a specific campaign but
merely seek to give one perspective on
a subject.
Twitter’s leadership has tried to
produce a rationale for banishing paid
political speech. The argument boils
down to the same misunderstandings
that have been used to undermine free
speech for decades.
Here is what Twitter’s CEO said: ‘‘We
believe political message reach should
be earned, not bought.’’ This kind of
surface-level argument may sound good
at first, but it quickly gives way to an
arbitrary process of picking winners
and losers in the competition of ideas.
Here is what I mean: Twitter’s new
rules would seem to forbid either a
small liberal nonprofit or a small con-
servative nonprofit from putting
money behind an issue ad to amplify
their perspective. But what about the
press? Will media corporations large
and small remain free to buy paid ad-
vertising to promote editorials and
opinion writers? Will cable news net-
works and national newspapers remain
free to advertise their political speech?
It would seem that Twitter will ei-
ther have to ban opinion journalists
and the press from advertising their
own work or else create an enormous
double standard that would just am-
plify the already privileged speakers
who already possess multimillion-dol-
lar platforms. It would just help clear
the field for those elites by denying the
same tools to fledgling speakers who
are not already famous.
Consider this: Back in July, the CEO
of Twitter praised two Democratic
Presidential candidates in a Twitter
post of his own. This gentleman has 4.3
million followers. It seems fair to con-
clude that these subscribers have not
followed him solely due to the stand-
alone merits of his commentary but in
part because they are interested to
hear from a powerful person who runs a
hugely influential company. And, of
course, Twitter has worked hard and
spent money for years to grow its busi-
ness and make itself famous—efforts
that have raised the profile of its CEO.
There is nothing wrong with that, but
it illustrates the impossibility of any
top-down standard to determine who
has earned an audience.
How many millions of dollars go into
publicity campaigns for Hollywood ac-
tors or musicians or media personal-
ities? How many millions of dollars in
advertising and corporate strategy
have made CNN, FOX, MSNBC, and the
New York Times into what they are
today? When these people and these in-
stitutions speak out on politics, are
they using megaphones they have
earned or megaphones that have been
bought? Obviously, such distinctions
are impossible to draw. This is exactly
why the act of free speech is not sepa-
rate from the resources that make
speech possible. Let me say that again.
This is exactly why the act of free
speech is not separate from the re-
sources that make speech possible.
Twitter’s announced policy would
not level the playing field. It would
only reinforce echo chambers. It would
prevent a local candidate on a shoe-
string budget from using a small
amount of money to promote a tweet
so more of his neighbors can learn
about his campaign. It would seem-
ingly reserve a special privilege for
major media corporations, while deny-
ing nonprofits the same opportunity.
Such a policy would not bolster our de-
mocracy. It would degrade democracy.
It would amplify the advantage of
media companies, celebrities, and cer-
tain other established elites, while de-
nying an important tool to the Ameri-
cans who disagree with them.
My personal view is that the Amer-
ican people do not need elites to pre-
determine which political speakers are
legitimate and which are not. I believe
that holds true whether the elites live
in Washington or Silicon Valley or
anywhere else.
Obviously Twitter can set whatever
policy it wants. It is a private sector
company. But companies respond to in-
centives. It is easy to see the influence
of Washington and leading Democrats
behind this announcement—pretty
easy. My Democratic colleagues have
threatened to impose huge regulatory
liability on platforms that run polit-
ical ads. And now a prominent plat-
form has preemptively decided that al-
lowing certain kinds of political speech
is more trouble than it is worth. It
does not serve our democracy for
Democratic leaders to chill or suppress
the free exchange of ideas through Fed-
eral policy. It does not serve our de-
mocracy for private sector leaders to
take away a crucial tool that helps less
prominent speakers make their case to
the American people.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 4842
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
that is due a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The lead-
er is correct.
The clerk will read the bill by title
for the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.001 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6413
November 6, 2019
A bill (H.R. 4842) to authorize the Sec-
retary of State to provide funds for a United
States pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, in
order to place the bill on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to further proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Lee Philip
Rudofsky, of Arkansas, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Arkansas.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 1699
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, last Fri-
day was an exciting day. I was home in
Sioux Falls, SD, to mark a huge mile-
stone for the city and for South Da-
kota—the unveiling of Sioux Falls’
first 5G small cells. By the end of this
month, Sioux Falls will have a work-
ing, albeit limited, 5G network—one of
the first cities in the entire country to
have one.
Most people take internet access for
granted these days. We assume that
anywhere we go, we will be able to ac-
cess our GPS, check Facebook, or send
a text message. But the truth is that
there are still areas in the United
States where it can be difficult to get
reliable internet access. Some of those
areas are in South Dakota. That is why
expanding access to broadband internet
in rural communities has been a pri-
ority of mine since I came to the Sen-
ate. While it can be nice to turn off our
phones and take a break, in this day
and age, Americans need reliable inter-
net access.
More and more of the business of
daily life is being conducted over the
internet, from scheduling appoint-
ments to figuring out the shortest way
from point A to point B. The internet
has already become an integral part of
commerce. Small businesses and farms
in areas without dependable access
miss out on a lot of opportunities that
most businesses take for granted.
Both as chairman and as a member of
the Senate Commerce, Science, and
Transportation Committee, I have had
the chance to draw attention to the
state of broadband access in rural com-
munities. I have conducted numerous
hearings with testimony from rural
broadband providers, farmers, Tribal
representatives, and Federal officials
both in Washington and in my home
State of South Dakota.
Over the past several years, we have
seen the number of Americans lacking
access to broadband decrease signifi-
cantly, but there is more work that
needs to be done. With the advent of 5G
technology, we now have to expand our
efforts to make deploying 5G tech-
nology to rural communities a pri-
ority.
Most of us think today’s internet is
pretty fast. We get traffic updates that
are basically in real time. We receive
emails seconds after they have been
sent. We stream our favorite shows at
home or on the go. But 5G will make
4G look like dialup. It will deliver
lightning-fast speeds up to 100 times
faster than what today’s technology
delivers. That is hard to imagine. After
all, as I said, today’s technology seems
pretty fast, but 5G will enable near-in-
stant responsiveness from our phones
and other devices.
However, 5G is about a lot more than
streaming more shows on more devices
or receiving emails instantly. In addi-
tion to being up to 100 times faster
than current speeds, 5G will be vastly
more responsive than 4G technology,
and we will be able to connect 100
times the number of devices that can
be connected with 4G. Because of this,
5G will enable massive breakthroughs
in healthcare, transportation, agri-
culture, and other key industries.
5G will bring new opportunities and
benefits to rural communities in par-
ticular. 5G will pave the way for the
widespread adoption of precision agri-
culture, which uses tools like robotics
and remote monitoring to help farmers
manage their fields and boost their
crop yields. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates that precision
agriculture will reduce farmers’ oper-
ational costs by up to $25 per acre and
increase farmers’ yields by up to 70 per-
cent by the year 2050. 5G will also
make it easier for residents of rural
communities to access business and
educational opportunities and long-dis-
tance healthcare.
The technology for 5G is already
here, and it is actually being imple-
mented, as Friday’s event in Sioux
Falls demonstrates.
There is more work to be done before
5G is a reality across the United
States. In order to deploy 5G, wireless
providers need access to sufficient
spectrum, and they need to be able to
deploy the infrastructure needed to
support the technology in a reasonable
and timely manner.
Last year, the President signed into
law my bipartisan MOBILE NOW Act.
It was legislation that I introduced to
help secure adequate spectrum for 5G
technology. Earlier this year, Senator
SCHATZ and I reintroduced the
STREAMLINE Small Cell Deployment
Act to address the other part of the 5G
equation, and that is infrastructure. 5G
technology will require not just tradi-
tional cell phone towers but small an-
tennas called small cells that can often
be attached to existing infrastructure,
like utility poles or buildings.
While the Federal Communications
Commission, under Chairman Pai, has
modernized its regulations on small
cell siting, there is more work to be
done, and that is where my bill, the
STREAMLINE Act, comes in. The
STREAMLINE Act will expedite the
deployment of small cells while re-
specting the role of State and local
governments in making deployment
decisions.
Importantly, it will make it more af-
fordable to bring 5G to rural areas by
addressing the costs of small cell de-
ployment. 5G has tremendous promise
for rural areas, but it will only deliver
on that promise if we ensure that 5G
cells are actually deployed in these
areas. I am proud that we have made a
good start in South Dakota. Sioux
Falls’ mayor, Paul TenHaken, has
worked aggressively to remove barriers
to telecommunications investment in
Sioux Falls.
Nationally, we urgently need to take
action to remove the final barriers to
large-scale 5G deployment. While we
have made good progress in securing
low- and high-band spectrum, China
and South Korea are far ahead of us in
opening up midband spectrum to 5G. If
we don’t want China or South Korea to
win the race to 5G and seize the eco-
nomic benefits that 5G will bring, we
need to substantially increase the
amount of midband spectrum available
to U.S. companies, and we need to do it
quickly.
We also need to take action on legis-
lation such as my STREAMLINE Act
to pave the way for the widespread de-
ployment of 5G infrastructure. Amer-
ica can lead the world in the 5G revolu-
tion. The technology is here. We just
need to take the final steps to bring 5G
into our communities.
I look forward to continuing to work
to support the nationwide deployment
of 5G with all of the benefits it can
bring to the American people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.002 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6414 November 6, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the
House of Representatives continues to
interview key witnesses as part of its
impeachment inquiry. Each witness
has reportedly added details and con-
text to the central focus of the inquiry;
that the President allegedly pressured
a foreign leader to interfere in domes-
tic politics and used the power of his
office for personal political gain.
The House must follow the facts
where they lead and continue the in-
vestigation until all the facts come
out. When and if there is a potential
trial in the Senate, it will be our job to
impartially look at all the evidence
and come to our own independent judg-
ment.
I remind my colleagues of this fact
because in recent days a few of my col-
leagues seem to be jumping to conclu-
sions. We all know about our col-
leagues in the House Republican cau-
cus who have made a show of storming
classified hearings, even though many
of them could participate in those
hearings, who have shifted their de-
fenses of the President on a nearly
daily basis, who only weeks ago made
the idea of no quid pro quo the linchpin
of their argument in support of the
President but now admit that the
President might have engaged in a quid
pro quo, but there is nothing wrong
with that.
In the House, the shifting sands of ar-
gument to embrace, to almost kneel at
the feet of the President is appalling.
They contradict themselves. They turn
themselves into pretzels before all of
the facts come out because they just
blindly want to say that the President
is right. That is not how the Constitu-
tion asks us to conduct ourselves as
legislators.
In the Senate, we are beginning to
get that germ of coming to conclusions
before we hear all the facts, before a
trial occurs. That nasty germ is
spreading. Senior Members said yester-
day that they will refuse to read any
transcript from the House investiga-
tion because they have written the
whole process off as a bunch of BS. If
they were using taxpayer dollars, much
needed foreign aid—an important part
of our foreign policy tool—to gain an
advantage on a political rival, if that is
true, that is BS? Our Senate Judiciary
chairman knows better, but his blind
loyalties, his abject following of what-
ever President Trump wants, it seems,
make him say things like that.
Yesterday, Leader MCCONNELL
stepped over the line, in my judgment,
when he said that if an impeachment
vote were held today, the President
would be acquitted. Instead of specu-
lating about the hypothetical trial or
writing off the entire process before it
has even concluded, how about we all
wait for the facts to come out? That is
our job.
Facts can be stubborn things. Just
yesterday we learned that a key figure
provided supplementary testimony
that he told a top Ukraine official that
U.S. military assistance was condi-
tioned on an announcement by Ukraine
that it was opening the investigations
President Trump requested. Instead of
leaping to the President’s defense to
declare no quid pro quo as many House
Republicans did—a claim now contra-
dicted by several witnesses—everyone
should wait for the facts to come out.
Fairness demands that of us.
Before I move on to another topic,
there is another troubling development
in this area—efforts by the White
House and a Member of this Chamber
to disclose the identity of the whistle-
blower. Let me repeat that. The White
House and even a Member of this
Chamber are openly advocating that
Federal whistleblower protections be
violated, that laws be broken, and the
health and safety of the whistleblower
and their family be put at risk. Shame,
shame—it is just outrageous.
We are in an extraordinary moment
of history when Republicans over only
a few weeks have shifted from saying
that no laws were broken to saying
that laws were broken but it is not im-
peachable to outright advocating that
laws be broken. This is wrong. This is
against democracy. This is against the
grain of this country that we have been
so proud of for 200-some-odd years.
Whistleblowers who stand up for the
Constitution should not be targeted by
the President or powerful Members of
the legislative branch, for sure. And
even if you don’t agree with that, you
have to agree that it is the law and you
shouldn’t break it. We are a nation of
laws. President Trump should hear
that. So should the junior Senator
from Kentucky—please.
On a good note, I was pleased to hear
that several of my Republican col-
leagues stood up yesterday and did the
right thing. They defended the whistle-
blower’s legal protections, including a
Member of the Republican Senate lead-
ership. Later today, I hope these Sen-
ators—and, indeed, all Senators—join
Democrats in approving a resolution
offered by my colleague Senator
HIRONO that supports the whistleblower
protections. Senator HIRONO will be
asking unanimous consent to pass it,
and we should, for the sake of the safe-
ty of this whistleblower, whether you
like what he or she did or you don’t,
for the sake of rule of law, and for the
sake of what balance of power is all
about.
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mr. President, later today President
Trump will give remarks from the
White House on the Judiciary, presum-
ably to give himself one big pat on the
back for the Federal bench. He is good
at that. He likes doing that. He does
that almost more than governing.
As a Senator, I have now worked
with four separate administrations,
Democrat and Republican, on the ap-
pointment of Federal judges. I can say
with perfect confidence that over the
last 3 years, President Trump has nom-
inated and Senate Republicans have
approved the most unqualified and rad-
ical nominees in my time in this body.
The list of unqualified nominees is so
long that for the sake of time, let’s
only consider nominees for the past 3
weeks. Justin Walker, confirmed last
week to the Western District of Ken-
tucky, has never tried a case and was
deemed ‘‘unqualified’’ to serve as a
judge by the American Bar Associa-
tion. Sarah Pitlyk, under consideration
for a seat in the Eastern District of
Missouri, has never tried a case, exam-
ined a witness, or picked a jury. Law-
rence VanDyke is up after that. The
ABA found that their interviewees
with experience with Mr. VanDyke said
he was ‘‘arrogant, lazy, an ideologue,
and lacking knowledge of the day-to-
day practice including procedural
rules.’’
How the heck do we put these people
on the bench? Forget ideology for a
moment. I understand that the Presi-
dent is not going to nominate people
who might ideologically agree with me,
but these people are abjectly unquali-
fied based on their persons—who they
are, how they behave in the courtroom,
their knowledge, their experience. This
is a lifetime appointment and one of
the most important appointments we
have, and when the ABA finds that a
nominee was ‘‘arrogant, lazy, an ideo-
logue, and lacking in knowledge of the
day-to-day practice including proce-
dural rules’’ and we go ahead and nomi-
nate him, what is the matter here?
Even more damaging, President
Trump has nominated judges who are
way out on the very extremes of juris-
prudence. They are rightwing
ideologues with views cut against the
majority of Americans on nearly every
issue. The judges he is nominating dis-
agree with the vast majority of Ameri-
cans on issue after issue after issue.
Whether it is women’s health and the
right of a woman to make her own
medical decisions, whether it is legal
protections for LGBTQ Americans,
whether it is the right of workers and
collective bargaining, whether it is fair
access to the ballot box and voting
rights, whether it is the most common-
sense gun laws and environmental pro-
tections, these nominees have views
way to the right of even the average
Republican, let alone the average
American.
President Trump has nominated sev-
eral judges who have been so extreme
and overtly racist that my Republican
colleagues who are loathe to oppose
President Trump on anything have ac-
tually opposed him so that those few
nominees didn’t get on the bench. The
nominations of these hard-right people
are way over—hurting the average
American, siding with big special in-
terests over working Americans over
and over again, finding every excuse to
side with the rich and the powerful
over the working class people. This is
what President Trump calls an accom-
plishment?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.004 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6415
November 6, 2019
I understand why the President and
Leader MCCONNELL try to celebrate ju-
dicial nominees. They hardly have a
legislative accomplishment to name.
The truth is, when it comes to judicial
picks, the President and Senate Repub-
licans should be downright ashamed of
their record.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2603
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, when I
first came to the Senate, I was asked
to serve on the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, and I considered it quite an
honor. It is an extraordinary com-
mittee with a rich history of involve-
ment in some of the most important
issues of our time, and that has been
the case for generations.
Recently, when it was reformed, I
was asked on which subcommittee I
wanted to serve. I chose the Immigra-
tion Subcommittee. I took it for two
reasons. First, I am a lucky American.
My mother was an immigrant to this
country. She was brought here at the
age of 2 from Lithuania. Her mother,
who brought her, didn’t speak English,
but my mom was a pretty smart little
girl. She spoke English and Lithua-
nian, and she was the translator for the
family. They even called her into a
courtroom as a little girl to translate
for a person who was being charged so
that they understood the law. My
mother was an extraordinary woman.
She had an eighth grade education, but
was one of the smartest people I have
ever known. I guess that is a son talk-
ing, but you might expect it.
I often thought I was lucky that she
lived long enough to see me sworn into
the U.S. Senate. This immigrant girl,
who became an American citizen, saw
her son become the 47th Senator from
the State of Illinois. That is my story.
That is my family’s story. That is
America’s story. That is who we are.
We are a Nation of immigrants. But
for those blessed to be able to trace
back their roots to indigenous people
and Native Americans, all of us have
come to this country—either ourselves
personally, our parents, or grand-
parents.
Immigration means a lot to me be-
cause I think the diversity of this
country is its strength. The fact that
people were willing to sacrifice so
much to come to the United States of
America tells me something about
them. Many of them risked everything.
They left everything behind—left be-
hind their families, their places of wor-
ship, their language, their culture,
their food—and came to a place they
had never seen before because they
heard what America was all about—a
land of opportunity. So I wanted to be
on that subcommittee.
The second reason I wanted to be on
the subcommittee is that the immigra-
tion laws of the United States are a
disaster. They are terribly broken.
They do not serve our Nation, either in
terms of security or bringing the diver-
sity we need for our future. I have
known this for a long time.
It was 6 or 7 years ago that we put to-
gether a group of Senators, four Demo-
crats, four Republicans. John McCain
was leading the Republicans with
LINDSEY GRAHAM, MARCO RUBIO, Jeff
Flake. On the Democratic side was
Senator SCHUMER, who just spoke on
the floor; Senator MENENDEZ of New
Jersey; Senator BENNET of Colorado;
and I. We sat down for months, night
after night, looking at every section of
the immigration law—this broken
law—to say: How will we change this?
How can we reach political com-
promises and serve the best needs of
this Nation? And we came up with it.
We came up with this comprehensive
bill and brought it to the floor of the
Senate, and it passed with 68 votes. We
finally found a bipartisan answer—just
exactly what the American people sent
us to do.
We sent our work product over to the
House of Representatives, and they re-
fused to even consider it. They
wouldn’t bring our bill up for a vote.
They wouldn’t debate it, wouldn’t offer
an amendment, an alternative sub-
stitute—nothing. And here we sit with
this broken immigration system.
I want to describe to my colleagues—
or at least those listening in the Sen-
ate—one of the issues that came up re-
cently. Here is what it comes down to.
There are people who come to the
United States to work. Many of them
come on what is known as an H–1B
visa. It is a specialty visa, and it says
that in this situation, this company
cannot find an American to fill the job
and wants to bring a talented person
from another company on a temporary
visa to work. Thousands come under
this program each year. Many of them
come from the country of India. They
are trained engineers, by and large, but
they are also doctors, and they are pro-
fessionals who are needed in commu-
nities all across our country.
Well, we have run into a problem be-
cause once they are here and have been
here for some time, many of them want
to stay. That in and of itself is a good
thing, as far as I am concerned. If they
are productive employees making a
business profitable, creating new jobs
in the process, I want them to stay.
Some of them were actually educated
in the United States and are using that
education, working here, but now they
want to be permanent residents in this
country.
There is a difficulty in the problem
because we limit the number of people
who can apply for what is known as
green cards—employment-based visas—
each year. The limitation is 140,000. It
may sound like a lot, but believe me,
there are hundreds of thousands more
who are seeking these visas.
We have a problem particularly when
it comes to those of Indian descent.
The problem is the fact that so many
of them have come to fill these tem-
porary work jobs and are applying for
green cards that there are many more
applications for green cards than there
are actual cards to be issued. There are
only 140,000 total each year for the en-
tire world. There are over 500,000 Indi-
ans who have come to this country and
are asking for green card status. The
law also says that no more than 7 per-
cent can come from any 1 country of
the 140,000. If you do the simple math
of about 10,000 each year and with there
being over 500,000 Indians waiting,
imagine what that means. It means
that many of them will never live long
enough to qualify for a green card. So
this has become very controversial.
Many of them are desperate, and they
should be, for their plights are now so
uncertain.
It is complicated by the fact that if
you come here in an employment-based
situation—on a temporary visa, an H–
1B—you can bring your family with
you, meaning your spouse and your
children. Yet, if you stay here for a pe-
riod of time and if your children reach
the age of 21, they can no longer stay
based on their parent’s visa. Frankly,
they are subject to deportation, and
some are deported.
The other night, I met a large group
of these Indians in the State of Illinois
who came to me pleading for help. I
want to help them. I hope they under-
stand and those who are listening un-
derstand as well that when it comes to
immigration, I am in favor of border
security and of orderly immigration,
but I am in favor of immigration and
the diversity it brings to this country
and the talent it brings to this coun-
try.
I have a bill before us, known as the
RELIEF Act. It would lift that cap of
140,000 so we could absorb more people
each year into our country who have
been here already or who have been
working here already and whose fami-
lies have been established here already
but who just want a chance to, ulti-
mately, apply for citizenship. That is
what my bill would do.
It would do two other things, and I
want to bring these points up for those
who are considering my unanimous
consent request that I am about to
make. I want them to understand how
personal and important this is to the
people I am talking about.
One of the provisions I mentioned re-
lates to the fact that if you bring chil-
dren to the United States while you are
working on those temporary visas,
those children are protected until they
reach the age of 21, but they are then
subject to deportation. I cannot tell
you the emotional scenes I have wit-
nessed in the last few weeks as these
parents have introduced me to their
children and have said to me: Senator,
I am in this long line waiting for a
green card. My 12-year-old daughter
could end up being 21 years old and de-
ported while I am still waiting. I want
to take care of her. I want her to have
a chance to go to school, and I want
her to have a bright future. Yet her
fate is tied to the fact that there are
not enough green cards for me to stay
in this country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.005 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6416 November 6, 2019
One of the provisions in the RELIEF
Act that I urge my colleagues to con-
sider when I make this unanimous con-
sent request is that if you apply for a
green card as a parent, the age of your
children at that moment is basically
frozen for legal purposes. Those chil-
dren cannot age out while you are
waiting in line if you applied while
they were still minors. This will pro-
tect these children from deportation.
This is one of the most important and
humane things we can do.
The second thing is, if we are going
to establish any standards or quotas
for those who are allowed in this coun-
try to have employment-based visas
and green cards, we shouldn’t count
the spouses and dependent children.
Let’s just count those who are, frankly,
going to work as engineers and doctors
in our communities.
The net result of the RELIEF Act is
to create a realistic way to lift the cap
in order to allow more to come in each
year who are qualified, who have al-
ready been vetted, and who have gone
through the background checks. It is
not to penalize the minor children who
might age out while their parents are
waiting. We should make sure the
spouses and dependent children aren’t
counted toward any ultimate quota.
The RELIEF Act would lift country
caps that limit the number of green
cards that go to immigrants from any
particular country. These country caps
have contributed to this terrible back-
log that we currently have. Yet lifting
these caps alone will not clear the
green card backlog. Without more
green cards, which is what I am calling
for, the current backlog of 800,000 peo-
ple total—I mentioned 500,000 were
from India—who are waiting for em-
ployment-based green cards will actu-
ally increase if we don’t lift the cap by
300,000 in the next 10 years.
The RELIEF Act is not novel or con-
troversial. You will remember that ear-
lier I talked about a comprehensive im-
migration bill. What I am proposing
today is included in it. It is a bipar-
tisan proposal, and it is one that, I
think, we should return to in order to
solve the problem.
The RELIEF Act has been endorsed
by many national business, immigrant,
and labor organizations, including the
New American Economy, the National
Education Association, the American
Immigration Lawyers Association,
United We Dream, Asian Americans
Advancing Justice, South Asian Ameri-
cans Leading Together, United Chinese
Americans, the National Iranian Amer-
ican Council, the Institute of Elec-
trical and Electronics Engineers, the
American Hellenic Educational Pro-
gressive Association, which, inciden-
tally, is the largest Greek-American
organization, and the Ancient Order of
Hibernians, which is the largest Irish-
American organization.
In light of the failure of our immigra-
tion subcommittee’s taking any action
to solve this problem, I will ask for
unanimous consent to move this bill
forward.
To those who are considering wheth-
er they will accept or reject it, meet
with these people in your State. Sit
down with them, and hear of the
plights they face today. They are try-
ing to follow the law, and the law is
not responsive.
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Committee on the Judiciary be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 2603 and that the Senate proceed to
its immediate consideration. I further
ask unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). Is there objection?
The Senator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, in reserv-
ing the right to object, I come to the
floor to, first, compliment Senator
DURBIN on his remarkable story and his
family’s story about legal immigration
to this country. It is something I sup-
port. I think we should all consider it
a compliment when people want to
leave the countries of their births to
come to the United States, for they
know what we know—that it is a great
place in which to live and thrive.
I have a concern with the unanimous
consent request before us, the RELIEF
Act. Senator DURBIN and I have worked
on a couple of immigration issues on
which we have bridged the gap but
have not quite gotten there.
First off, it could lay the groundwork
for a significant increase in legal im-
migration, but I am also concerned
with the mechanics we find ourselves
in right now. As I understand it, the
RELIEF Act has six cosponsors—all
Democrats. Yet there is another bill
that is moving through the Senate
right now that was offered by Senator
LEE. It has been offered in other Con-
gresses, but it is actually making head-
way. It has 35 cosponsors, and 15 of
them are Democrats. They include Sen-
ator HARRIS, of California, and Senator
DUCKWORTH, the junior Senator of Illi-
nois. I believe this is a very narrowly
focused effort to address a lot of the
concerns that Senator DURBIN has.
I do not believe Senator DURBIN has
the support of the Senate to take this
through regular order at this point, let
alone through unanimous consent. I
hope Senator DURBIN and others will
recognize that we do have a shortage of
high-skilled workers in this country
and that we do need to fix a number of
problems, but I don’t think they can be
fixed with the RELIEF Act.
I encourage Senator DURBIN to work
with Senator LEE and with the 34 other
Senate Members on a bipartisan basis
to address this so we can bring the
Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants
Act to the floor and send it to the
House for its consideration.
Because of the lack of consensus on
many of the provisions in the RELIEF
Act, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the Sen-
ator from North Carolina and I both
serve on the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee. What I have asked for is a hear-
ing before the Immigration Sub-
committee so Senator LEE can bring
his bill forward and so I can bring my
bill forward so we can try to work out
the differences between us. That is usu-
ally how the Senate operates. Unfortu-
nately, last week, on the floor, Senator
LEE announced that he was opposed to
having any hearing on his bill. He
didn’t want there to be a hearing and a
markup. I think it is unfortunate. It
really will not lead us to having a bi-
partisan agreement that might actu-
ally solve this problem.
I also think there is a fundamental
flaw in Senator LEE’s approach. He
would take care of the issues facing
those from India at the expense of the
issues of the immigrants from virtually
every other country, for they would be
denied the opportunity to apply for
green cards while we would be taking
care of the backlog from this one na-
tion. I don’t think that is the way to
approach this.
As the Senator from North Carolina
said, if we truly believe more legal im-
migration of those with talents would
be good for America, this is our chance
to do it. At this point, I am dis-
appointed. I have told these families
who come to see me regularly that I
will continue to fight for them—to give
them a chance to protect their children
and to have a future in America.
I hope Senator LEE will reconsider
and allow for a hearing to take place so
we can move this bill forward and not
just exchange unanimous consent re-
quests on the floor.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2059
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I come to
talk about another issue of immigra-
tion that concerns me in North Caro-
lina, and I think it is something about
which every American should be con-
cerned. It is the sanctuary policies that
have been implemented in counties and
cities and, at least in one case, state-
wide.
‘‘Sanctuary city’’ sounds like a great
concept as the United States is a sanc-
tuary to which so many people seek to
immigrate. Yet the policy of the sanc-
tuary city actually breaks down the re-
lationship between Federal authorities
and local authorities. I think this is
dangerous and could potentially—and
not only potentially—have serious con-
sequences in communities. I will use a
few examples.
Over the past year in North Carolina,
we have had over 500 people who have
been released who had been arrested by
local authorities. Many of them had
been arrested for having committed se-
rious crimes. They had been charged
with murder, rape, indecent liberties
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.007 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6417
November 6, 2019
with a child, heroin trafficking—a
very, very long list—in cities just 25
minutes from where I live, down in
Charlotte, in Mecklenburg County.
They arrest people but not simply be-
cause they are illegally present. In
fact, you can find virtually no instance
in which a local authority would arrest
somebody just because one is illegally
present. The people who are in these
jails have been charged with crimes,
and in many cases they have been seri-
ous crimes.
Two weeks ago in Mecklenburg Coun-
ty, the Mecklenburg County sheriff had
made the decision to release four peo-
ple—one who had been charged with
murder, two who had been charged
with indecent liberties with a minor,
and one who had been charged with
heroin trafficking. They had been ille-
gally present but had not been in jail
because they had simply crossed the
border or had had their visas expire.
They had been in jail because they had
committed serious crimes.
When Immigration and Customs En-
forcement hears about these folks who
have been detained, they issue what
they call detainer orders. A detainer
order is a request to hold a person in
jail for at least 48 hours so ICE can go
to the jail, interview him, and deter-
mine whether they want to transfer
him into ICE’s custody and potentially
deport him.
This is a very dangerous policy that
has actually, ultimately, resulted in
other people being harmed. Think
about those people being released who
have been charged with rape or murder
or heroin trafficking. They go back
into the community and cause harm to
someone else.
What I have decided we need to do is
to at least provide a private right of
civil action to a victim of that unwise
decision. If that charged murderer or
heroin trafficker goes out and assaults
someone or murders someone—in some
cases, someone who has a DWI is
charged with vehicular homicide and
goes back out and while under the in-
fluence harms someone else in, say, an
automobile accident—I think the per-
son who gets harmed or, sadly, his sur-
vivor should be able to bring a case
against that governmental entity that
has the sanctuary policy.
For those who think sanctuary poli-
cies are safe and that only safe people
are being released, this shouldn’t be an
issue to them—right?—because no
harm is going to occur. Yet, if harm oc-
curs, I believe the victim should have a
right to seek restitution.
Our bill is fairly simple. It is called
the Justice for Victims of Sanctuary
Cities Act. It is a bill that reads, if you
as a governmental entity refuse to co-
operate with ICE and then release
someone who does harm to someone
else, that person has the right to sue
that governmental entity.
Our governments in the United
States—the local governments and
State governments—have the right to
say they are immune, that they can’t
be sued. They have that right, and I re-
spect that right. Yet, if they refuse to
allow themselves to build their cases in
court and say that what they did was
appropriate and safe, then it should
come at the consequence of the Federal
funding for which they would otherwise
be qualified to receive.
Again, if sanctuary cities are safe
and if all we are doing is releasing peo-
ple who are not threats to the commu-
nity, this should be a nonissue for any
sanctuary jurisdiction. It would only
be an issue if there is a victim as a re-
sult of the jurisdiction’s political deci-
sions.
That is why we have introduced the
Justice for Victims of Sanctuary Cities
Act. In fact, we listened to some of the
sanctuary jurisdictions, and they said:
Well, we could get into legal trouble if
we hold them for 48 hours, and for that
reason we release them after a judge
has ordered their release.
We have another bill that addresses
that problem so that liability will go
away. We are hearing what they have
to say and trying to address it in addi-
tional legislation.
But I think this is a bill that makes
sense, and I think it is something that
law enforcement, county commissions,
and city councils should take a look at.
I think they should work with ICE.
Here is the last reason why I think
working with ICE is very important:
ICE has a legal responsibility to pursue
these people if they are released by the
local government.
Here is what happens. You release
somebody who is charged with murder
or vehicular homicide or heroin traf-
ficking or rape. You release them in
the community, and ICE has to go pur-
sue them in the community.
So instead of allowing ICE to go into
a jail and have a safe transfer from one
jail into the ICE detainee system, they
have to actually create a task force.
They have got to go into a community,
and they have to apprehend them.
They have a statutory responsibility to
do that.
Ironically, in some of those in-
stances, the very law enforcement
agency that released them now has to
go into the field and back them up if it
is a dangerous situation when they are
trying to apprehend this person whom
ICE has a legal responsibility to appre-
hend.
I think this is a commonsense bill.
Hopefully, it is one that will give sanc-
tuary cities some pause before they re-
lease somebody charged with murder or
rape or heroin trafficking—a poten-
tially dangerous person—back into the
community, whom the Federal authori-
ties have to pursue no matter what.
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Committee on Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 2059
and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
I ask unanimous consent that the bill
be considered read a third time and
passed and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. DURBIN. Reserving the right to
object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, there is
more to the story. What he just de-
scribed to you seems pretty obvious: A
dangerous person, subject to deporta-
tion, why release them into the com-
munity? That is a perfectly valid point,
one that we ought to be discussing and
debating. But there is more to the
story, and here is what it comes down
to: Why did the major city police chiefs
across the United States oppose what
the Senator from North Carolina has
just suggested? Because they know
that if the Federal Government and its
immigration authorities are going to
use local police to enforce immigration
laws, it is going to change their ability
to keep communities and neighbor-
hoods safe.
Now, why would I say that? Let me
give you an example. It was just about
4 months ago when ICE officials pulled
over a young woman and said to her:
Are you here in the United States le-
gally? She said: I am; I am protected
by a program call DACA.
They said: We want to go to your
home.
They went to her home, and her
grandmother was there. They asked
her grandmother for proof of her citi-
zenship. Her grandmother had over-
stayed her visitor’s visa. They deported
her grandmother.
So the local police are fearful that if
they are now going to be recruited to
enforce immigration laws, they will
not get cooperation in the community
when it comes to fighting crime.
Let me give you an example that is
timely. On Halloween night, in a sec-
tion of Chicago, the little kids were out
with their parents in a Hispanic neigh-
borhood, walking along, and a little
girl, 7 years old, named Giselle Zamago
was shot twice. She barely survived.
They got her to the hospital, and they
saved her life. She is making a miracu-
lous recovery.
What is important about this story
and relevant to what the Senator from
North Carolina asks is the fact that
now community members have come
forward to the police to help them find
the shooter. They have arrested a 15-
year-old gang member. This gang mem-
ber was aiming at a 32-year-old gang
rival standing next to the little girl,
and he wasn’t worth a damn when it
came to shooting a gun. This poor lit-
tle girl was shot.
What the police in Chicago are tell-
ing me is that we need the community
to be willing to talk to the police and
not be afraid somebody is going to fol-
low someone home and check whether
their grandmother is here legally in
the United States.
That is why the whole question of
sanctuary cities is boiling up and why
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.009 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6418 November 6, 2019
the police chiefs in major cities have
basically said: This is too simplistic.
Let’s sit down and do this carefully,
not as the Senator from North Carolina
has proposed.
The last point I want to make is this.
If you visit the Senate Chamber this
week in Washington and want to see
deliberation on legislation, you are out
of luck. There are no bills—no sub-
stantive legislative bills—scheduled to
be considered on the floor of the U.S.
Senate this week, but it is not an un-
usual week. We hardly ever take up
legislation in the committees and
bring it to the floor for debate in the
Senate.
So the real question I have is why
the Senator from North Carolina—who
is in the Republican majority, who
serves on the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, who could ask for a markup of
his bill if he wished—has decided in-
stead to bypass the whole process and
just say: I want to take this bill
straight to the Senate with no debate.
He is in the majority. We could bring
this bill to the floor for debate and for
amendment. We could bring it before
the committee for a markup, but he
chose not to do that.
Sadly, it is a commentary on what
has happened to the Senate floor. It
has become a legislative graveyard. We
just don’t do what the Senate used to
do—debate amendments, deliberate,
agree on things, and compromise. It
doesn’t happen anymore under Senator
MCCONNELL. It is unfortunate. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, maybe
just to add another chapter to that
story, first, we did have a hearing on
this bill about 2 weeks ago in Judici-
ary. That is the first step before you
move to a markup.
I will be asking for a markup on this
bill because I think it is a bill that is
a commonsense bill. It is a bill that ac-
tually has a safe-harbor provision for
people in the community who may be
illegally present who want to work
with law enforcement. We are listening
to the concerns that law enforcement
have expressed. We have addressed
them, like so many times we have ad-
dressed these sorts of matters before.
So we will have a markup on the bill,
we will have a vote out of committee,
and I hope that we have a vote on this
floor, because at the end of the day,
some of the examples that Senator
DURBIN noted are sad and should be
avoided, but the real sad examples are
the people who are dying, being raped,
and being poisoned by people who were
detained and could have been trans-
ferred into ICE custody and deported to
make our communities safer, including
the communities of illegally present
people, who are less safe as a result of
the current sanctuary policies.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I am
going to yield to the Senator from
Iowa who has waited patiently on a
separate issue that he and I are work-
ing on together and allow him to speak
first if he wishes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
thank Senator DURBIN. He and I are
working on something that success-
fully passed the Senate last year and
was not agreed to by the House of Rep-
resentatives. So we are back to bring
some transparency to pricing of drugs,
and that is what I want to speak about
now.
I am here to share a secret with the
American people. It is about prescrip-
tion drug pricing. As chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, it is no se-
cret that one of my biggest priorities is
to rein in the soaring costs of prescrip-
tion medicine. It is no secret that
Americans are having a hard time pay-
ing for medicine. It is no secret that
Big Pharma doesn’t want us to change
the status quo.
In fact, Big Pharma is spending big
money to stop Congress and the Trump
administration from legislating a cure
of these high prices. That is the secret.
They want to keep drug pricing a se-
cret from the American people. So
what does that mean? It means that
Big Pharma wants to keep secrecy
baked in when it benefits Big Pharma.
Right now, the very murky drug pric-
ing supply chain is a mystery to con-
sumers. There seems to be no rhyme or
reason to what consumers will owe at
the pharmacy counter when they pick
up their prescriptions. American tax-
payers, American seniors, and this U.S.
Senator are fed up with the lack of
consumer information when it comes
to pharmaceuticals. That is why I am
working to inject some Midwestern
common sense into prescription drug
pricing.
As you can see, I am working with
my friend Senator DURBIN. We have
teamed up before on issues that
naysayers said couldn’t get done.
You might recall that President
Trump signed our FIRST STEP Act
into law last year. The landmark re-
forms are protecting public safety, sav-
ing taxpayer dollars, and bringing fair-
ness to the criminal justice system.
Today, we are teaming up once again
to fix an injustice with prescription
drug advertising.
Big Pharma spends billions of dollars
a year advertising to the U.S. con-
sumers. The FDA regulates what these
direct-to-consumer ads must tell con-
sumers. For example, advertisers must
include in their ads potential side ef-
fects. You hear it all the time on TV—
things about nausea, diarrhea, depres-
sion, weight gain, or even death if you
might buy one of their drugs.
But let me tell you what seems to
scare Big Pharma to death—price
transparency. They do not want to tell
consumers how much a drug costs
when they saturate the airwaves with
advertising that shows happy families
enjoying the grandkids, celebrating
birthdays, and going on vacations.
Senator DURBIN and I believe that
Americans have a right to know about
the price of drugs, like they need to
know the side effects of drugs or the
value of drugs. Consumers should then
know what the advertised drug costs.
It happens that the Trump adminis-
tration agrees with Senator DURBIN
and this Senator on that point, but, of
course, Big Pharma sued to stop the
Department of Health and Human
Services’ regulations from taking ef-
fect.
It is up to Congress, then, to change
the law. That is what Senator DURBIN
and I are here to talk about today.
Almost exactly 1 year ago, I said here
on the floor of the Senate that it is
time for Big Pharma to talk turkey on
this subject. Yet here we are again, 1
year later, and Big Pharma has ridden
the taxpayers’ gravy train for another
12 months, and part of that gravy train
is keeping the price of drugs off of the
television screens when they advertise
all of the value of the drugs and the
dangers and the side effects of those
drugs.
As Americans get ready to count
their blessings around the Thanks-
giving table a couple weeks from now,
I hope they can count on all 100 Mem-
bers of the Senate to approve the Dur-
bin-Grassley bill.
There is no good reason to oppose it
unless you would rather keep secrets
for Big Pharma.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, let me
thank my colleague from Iowa.
Senator GRASSLEY and I are friends,
colleagues, and we work together on a
lot of issues. We come to this body
with different political philosophies,
but occasionally our ideas converge,
and this is one of them.
We know that the pharmaceutical in-
dustry spends $6 billion a year on tele-
vision advertising. If you have never
seen a drug ad on TV, I know one thing
for sure: You don’t own a TV. You
can’t get away from them. Every time
you turn around, there is another ad.
And what are they telling you in the
ads? Don’t take this drug if you are al-
lergic to this drug.
How are you supposed to know that?
You may die if you take this drug.
They tell you everything under the
Sun, except a very fundamental fact, as
Senator GRASSLEY has pointed out:
How much does this cost?
Xarelto—I know it takes a long time
for the drug Xarelto to finally reach
the point where the average consumer,
the average American, can even spell
it, let alone pronounce it, so they can
go ask their doctor for it. And do you
know how much Xarelto costs—this
blood thinner—each month? It is about
$520 a month. But it is not the most
heavily advertised drug on television.
At least a few months ago, the most
heavily advertised drug was HUMIRA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.010 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6419
November 6, 2019
Psoriatic arthritis? Remember that ad
that showed the person with the little
red spot on her elbow, and they said if
you take HUMIRA this may help re-
lieve psoriasis, the patchy skin and
such?
Now, there are serious cases of psori-
asis—don’t get me wrong—but the no-
tion that we would take Humira to
clear up psoriasis belies reality. Here is
the reality. Humira costs $5,500 a
month. Now, I am not going to win any
bathing suit contests nor have per-
fectly clear skin, but it is beyond any-
body’s mind that we would spend $5,500
a month to get rid of the little patch
on your elbow.
Why won’t they tell us what it costs?
Because they know it is a stunning
number, $5,500 a month. So what Sen-
ator GRASSLEY and I did a year ago was
to say to the pharmaceutical compa-
nies: Go ahead and run your ads, but in
the ad, disclose how much your drug
costs.
I think it is going to create pressure
on these pharmaceutical companies
when they decide to raise Humira to
$6,500 a month. The American con-
sumers are going to know in fact what
is going on. We passed it. We passed
our bill in the Senate. We sent it over
to the conference committee, and it
died over in the House of Representa-
tives. But things have changed in the
House. There is a new Democratic ma-
jority there. I think we have got a bet-
ter chance of passing it.
Later on today, I am going to ask for
unanimous consent on this very simple
bill directed to consumer advertising
to say to pharmaceutical companies:
Disclose in your ad how much your
drug costs. That is it. Just disclose it.
We have come up with the price that
they have to declare each year as their
standard price for the drug. Disclose
that price to the American people. We
think that folks will slow down decid-
ing to buy Humira at $5,500 a month to
deal with a little red patch on their
elbow. It is beyond belief.
So later on, I will make this unani-
mous consent, and I ask for unanimous
consent now—since I appear to be the
only one on the Senate floor now—to
speak on a different topic for a mo-
ment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection.
IMMIGRATION
Mr. President, it was 19 years ago I
introduced a bill called the DREAM
Act. And the DREAM Act said if you
came to the United States under the
age of 18, if you grew up in this coun-
try, went to school, no problems with
the law, you ought to be given a chance
at some point later in life to earn your
way to legal status and citizenship.
That was the bill. It was introduced,
as I mentioned, about 19 years ago. It
has never become the law of the land,
but at one point, I went to one of my
Senate cosponsors that happened to be
running for President, named Barack
Obama, and said to him: Can you do
anything as President to help in this
situation? So many of these young peo-
ple who are undocumented, they are
living in the only country they have
known, and they have no future be-
cause of their immigration status.
He created the DACA program, and
under the DACA program, if you quali-
fied as I just described, you would come
forward and pay $500 or $600 for a filing
fee, go through a criminal background
check, and if you were approved, you
would be allowed to stay in the United
States for 2 years at a time under this
DACA protection, renewable every 2
years. And you would be able to stay
without fear of deportation and be al-
lowed to legally work in this country.
President Obama agreed to do it, and
when he did, 800,000 young people came
forward and received DACA protection.
For the longest time, President Trump
would give speeches talking about
these wonderful young people who de-
served to have a chance to have a fu-
ture in the United States. Then in Sep-
tember of 2017, he changed his mind.
When he changed his mind, unfortu-
nately, he eliminated the DACA pro-
gram.
Now, it is being contested in court,
and next week, 6 days from now, across
the street, in the Supreme Court, they
are going to argue whether the Presi-
dent had the power to end this pro-
gram. As you might imagine, there are
almost 800,000 young people who are
listening carefully to those arguments
and waiting for the decision of the Su-
preme Court. They currently have tem-
porary protection because of the pend-
ing lawsuit. But if they lose in the Su-
preme Court, they will be subject to de-
portation. That would be a sad out-
come, and in many cases, it would be a
tragic outcome.
I am hoping that my colleagues in
the Senate will follow this carefully.
This is one thing we ought to agree on.
Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM, conservative
Republican from South Carolina, is my
cosponsor of the DREAM Act, and he
has joined with me in saying that we
ought to make legal status available to
these young people through the
DREAM Act. I hope that ends up being
the case.
I would like to close by telling a
story on the floor here about this
young man. His name is Ernestor De
La Rosa. This is the 118th story I have
told on the floor of the Senate about
Dreamers, people protected by DACA.
He is, as I said, the 118th example I can
give to my colleagues in the Senate
and those following this debate as to
why we need to have DACA or the
DREAM Act as the law of the land.
Let me tell the story. Ernestor was
brought to the United States from
Mexico when he was a child. He grew
up in the Midwest in Dodge City, KS,
and came to the United States legally.
He applied for a green card while he
was still in legal status. He wanted to
become a lawful permanent resident,
but the line for green cards was too
long. You might remember an earlier
statement I made in debate today. The
line was so long that Ernestor’s visa
expired before he received his green
card. Under the laws of America, he
was undocumented.
It is not well-known that millions of
undocumented immigrants came to the
United States legally in the first place,
but they are unable to become perma-
nent legal residents because our immi-
gration system is broken.
Here is what Ernestor says about it:
‘‘We all hear comments about ‘Get
back in line and do it legally.’ Well, we
tried. But the system right now is so
complex that it takes up to 20 years to
attain legal status.’’
When he first arrived, Ernestor, from
Mexico, did not speak or read English,
but he worked hard and became an
honor student in his school. He earned
an associate’s degree from Dodge City
Community College and a bachelor’s
degree from Fort Hays State Univer-
sity and a master’s in public adminis-
tration from Wichita State University.
Because of his immigration status,
Ernestor was not eligible for any Fed-
eral financial aid as a student. How did
he get through school? He worked two
jobs. Here is what he says about that
experience: ‘‘Often kids my age enjoy
the college lifestyle, hanging out with
friends and partying. But I wasn’t able
to do that. I was so disciplined, I said
to myself I cannot fail a class, because
I am going to have to pay out of my
pocket take it again.’’
What is Ernestor doing today? He is
the assistant city manager of Dodge
City, KS. He manages a budget of more
than $55 million and directly oversees
20 employees. He is responsible for his
city’s legislative affairs, working with
Federal, State, and local representa-
tives on issues such as housing, trans-
portation, and energy.
Here is what he says about his job: ‘‘I
love this profession because I am able
to make a difference in my community
and advocate to meet the needs of our
residents. It is rewarding and fulfilling
to serve this great city.’’
Imagine that. Ernestor came to
Dodge City unable to speak or read
English. Now, he is the assistant city
manager. This is his story, but it is
also America’s story. Without DACA,
which protected him, gave him a right
to this job, none of this would have
been possible.
Ernestor’s dream is to become an
American citizen and to advance from
assistant city manager to city man-
ager, so he can continue to make a dif-
ference in people’s lives, but that can
only happen if we do something here on
the floor of the United States Senate.
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed a measure called the American
Dream and Promise Act that would
provide for Dreamers, as mentioned
earlier, and would provide for this
young man. Senator MCCONNELL re-
fuses to allow us to debate this bill on
the floor of the United States Senate.
It is unfortunate.
Next week, guys like Ernestor and
hundreds of thousands of Dreamers are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.011 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6420 November 6, 2019
going to be focused right across the
street on the Supreme Court. They are
counting on the Supreme Court to do
the right thing and reject President
Trump’s repeal of DACA.
They are counting on us who serve in
the Senate to solve this crisis that the
President has created and give this
young man and thousands like him a
chance. It would be an American trag-
edy to deport this young man after all
he has achieved and send him back to
Mexico, where he hasn’t lived since he
was a little boy.
Will the majority leader give him a
chance? I hope so. The Senate should
give the American Dream and Promise
Act a vote.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
GLOBAL HOSTAGE ACT
Mr. COTTON. Mr President, this
week marks the 40th anniversary of the
Iran hostage crisis, when 66 Americans
were seized by an armed mob fueled by
the anti-American ravings of Iran’s
revolution clerics. Fifty-two of those
Americans were held captive for 444
days, during which time they were pa-
raded on television and used as pawns
by Iran’s theocratic dictators.
Those Americans would finally come
home safely, thanks to a pressure cam-
paign of financial sanctions and trade
embargoes by the United States and
their partners, but not everyone came
home safely from Iran. Before the cri-
sis ended, five American airmen and
three marines lay dead, killed in an ill-
fated rescue mission necessitated by
Iran’s lawless deeds.
This week’s anniversary is a useful
reminder of the true nature of the re-
gime in Tehran. Behind Iran’s smooth
talking, Western-educated diplomats
are a band of radical clerics that act
more like a criminal gang than the rul-
ers of a sovereign nation.
Consider how the regime commemo-
rated the 40th anniversary of their
crime—not with apologies, like a civ-
ilized nation might. No, with anti-
American rallies where uniformed sol-
diers—uniformed soldiers, not clerics,
not activists—uniformed soldiers led
chants of ‘‘Death to America’’ and
‘‘Death to Israel.’’
In other words, Iran is unreformed
and unrepentant. It still takes and
holds hostages to this very day—busi-
nessmen, professors, engineers, fathers,
and mothers, all just bargaining chips
to the Ayatollahs. That is why I have a
bill to impose new and substantial
costs on these kidnappers. The Global
Hostage Act would require the Presi-
dent to sanction foreign officials who
take Americans as their hostages.
The goal of our bill is clear: If you
take Americans hostage, we will make
your life miserable. You will not be
able to travel here. You will not be
able to bank here. You will not be able
to send your kids to fancy schools here.
You will be treated like the pariah you
are, which is precisely what the Aya-
tollahs remain 40 years after they took
their first American hostages.
Mr. President, I ask consent that the
following remarks be entered in a sepa-
rate part of the journal.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection.
NOMINATION OF LEE PHILIP RUDOFSKY
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I would
like to say a few words about Lee Phil-
ip Rudofsky, the President’s nominee
to the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Arkansas.
In a few minutes, this body will vote
to move ahead with this nomination.
Lee has a long and impressive resume,
from Harvard Law School to the White
House Office of Legal Counsel, to
Kirkland & Ellis, and beyond. His early
career and qualifications speak for
themselves. Lee is no stranger to serv-
ing Arkansans. He was our State’s very
first solicitor general. Lee left a good
job at Wal-Mart to take that position
and face the many challenges that
come with it. He also moved 3 hours
from his loving wife and three young
kids to work around the clock for the
people of Arkansas.
That hard work paid off for all of us.
According to esteemed members of Ar-
kansas’ legal community from both
parties, Lee ‘‘established Arkansas So-
licitor General’s Office as one of the
finest legal practices in the State of
Arkansas.’’
He has subsequently become a re-
spected professor and recruiter at one
of our State’s two law schools, and Lee
is also a leader at his local synagogue
and a member of the local chapter of
the American Inns of Court.
After the Senate votes to confirm
him later this week, Lee will draw
from this deep well of experience as he
continues to serve the people of Arkan-
sas with devotion and distinction. He
will bring to the bench his intelligence,
character, and, above all, commitment
to the rule of law and the administra-
tion of equal justice under the law.
I was honored to introduce Lee before
the Judiciary Committee earlier this
year. I am now honored, again, to
speak on his behalf today. Lee is an ex-
ceptional selection for the Federal
bench. I am happy to call him friend,
and soon I look forward to calling him
a judge.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to start the votes
now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Lee Philip Rudofsky, of Arkansas,
to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
Richard C. Shelby, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker,
Lisa Murkowski, Mike Rounds, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Mike Rounds,
Rick Scott, John Barrasso, Kevin
Cramer, Richard Burr, Mitch McCon-
nell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Lee Philip Rudofsky, of Arkansas, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 346 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.013 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6421
November 6, 2019
NOT VOTING—8
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 41.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior legislative clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jennifer Philpott Wilson, of Penn-
sylvania, to be United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Jennifer Philpott Wilson, of Penn-
sylvania, to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Penn-
sylvania, shall be brought to a close?
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 89,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 347 Ex.]
YEAS—89
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Gillibrand Hirono Markey
NOT VOTING—8
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 89, the nays are 3.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Jennifer Philpott Wilson, of
Pennsylvania, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Middle District of
Pennsylvania.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
TAX REFORM
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I
thought it would be appropriate to
come to the floor to celebrate the sec-
ond anniversary of the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act.
For years I heard from Texans who
thought that the Tax Code was simply
too complex, too burdensome, and that
the Federal Government simply took
too much of the fruits of their labor.
They were absolutely correct. Our
Tax Code hadn’t been reformed in more
than three decades, and Republican and
Democratic Presidents have long
pointed out how America was at a com-
petitive disadvantage relative to other
countries because of our Tax Code.
Then, of course, there is the drag of
high tax rates on our domestic econ-
omy—especially following the great re-
cession during the Obama administra-
tion—which made jump-starting the
economy a top priority last Congress.
The good news is that we delivered.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowered the
individual tax rates across the board
for every bracket. It increased the
standard deduction, doubled the child
tax credit, and made tax rates for busi-
nesses more competitive. Our goal was
to make our Tax Code work for the
American people, not the other way
around.
I know there are a lot of naysayers
who said it wouldn’t work. Some of
them are still saying that. But I think
the results speak for themselves.
First, we saw waves of positive head-
lines announcing that companies big
and small were using their tax savings
to provide pay raises, pay bonuses,
401(k) match increases, and other bene-
fits to their employees.
I made a point of asking my constitu-
ents in Texas about their experience
under the new Tax Code, and here is
some of what I heard:
Tejas Office Products is a Hispanic-
owned and operated family business in
Houston. They were able to hire more
workers in Southeast Texas and expand
their business as a result of their tax
savings from the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act.
There is American Bank in Corpus
Christi. They projected that they could
lend an additional $120 million over the
next 5 years in the Coastal Bend, which
was absolutely critical, especially fol-
lowing the natural disaster known as
Hurricane Harvey.
Then there is Happy State Bank, my
favorite name for a bank—Happy State
Bank—in Amarillo, which increased
wages for more than 600 of its 700 em-
ployees. It upped their starting min-
imum wage and increased their dollar-
for-dollar retirement plan match from
6 percent to 7 percent, all of which was
good news.
Well, it didn’t take long for that good
news in these anecdotal cases, for ex-
ample, to translate into a much im-
proved economy across the board,
which helps everybody.
We have seen rapid and consistent
job growth with more than 4.3 million
new jobs since tax reform became law—
4.3 million new jobs.
In September, the national unem-
ployment rate fell to a 50-year low, and
Texas unemployment remains below
the national average at only 3.4 per-
cent.
The thing I hear the most from em-
ployers and job creators in Texas is
that they can’t find enough qualified
workers to fill the good jobs that exist.
We have one of the tightest labor mar-
kets in decades.
Wages are going up as a result of
competition for workers. The poverty
rate has hit its lowest level since the
turn of the century. American families
are seeing more of their hard-earned
dollars in each paycheck.
Despite evidence to the contrary, we
are still hearing from some of the same
old critics who say that tax reform was
a flop. The Atlantic, for example, pub-
lished a story last week with the title
‘‘The GOP Tax Cuts Didn’t Work.’’ The
author claims that tax reform didn’t
live up to the hype and that because
our economy didn’t grow as much as
some of the estimates believed it
would, consecutive, positive growth is
absolutely worthless.
Well, that doesn’t make any sense at
all—not to mention the fact that eco-
nomic growth has outpaced even the
forecast of the Congressional Budget
Office prior to tax reform.
This author also mentions that the
Institute for Supply Management—or
ISM—manufacturing index dipped in
September. But the ISM manufac-
turing index is a survey of purchasing
managers who may be swayed by senti-
ment as much as actual activity. We
have seen this index at a similar level
before, and the economy continued to
grow.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.001 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6422 November 6, 2019
In addition, the critic in this article
points to declining exports as a factor
in this, despite the fact that our trade
deficit fell 4.7 percent in September.
The critics still refuse to admit the
connection between increased con-
sumer spending and Americans bring-
ing home more in each paycheck. In
other words, they are trying to cherry-
pick the evidence and ignore any evi-
dence that the American people have
benefited from the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act.
In fact, the critics—who I think are
more concerned about an agenda than
they are the economy or the welfare of
the working American family—con-
tinue to try to paint a picture of doom
and gloom of our Nation’s economy to
further that political agenda.
It was not that long ago when some
were even highlighting that tax re-
funds were reduced because of tax re-
form. It is a bogus measurement of tax
relief. We know that at the end of the
day, the data showed the average re-
fund check was not that different from
the previous year. Wouldn’t you want
your tax refund to be lower because
you were simply paying less with-
holding each month? That is an inter-
est-free loan to the Federal Govern-
ment.
Well, while we seem to have moved
beyond that argument, we are now on
to the next one. Our Democratic col-
leagues point out that some companies
are using their savings for stock
buybacks and try to portray this as a
corporate blood thirst, claiming it
hurts workers in the economy. But by
repurchasing their own shares, compa-
nies are reinvesting in themselves and
their shareholders. Many times, this is
teachers or police officers or other first
responders. Interfering with stock
buybacks, as some of our friends across
the aisle have recommended, would not
only hurt our economy, but would do
serious damage to the pension and re-
tirement accounts of many working
Texans and other Americans.
The message of these partisan critics
is: The government can spend your
money better and more wisely than
you can. But Washington cannot even
manage its own books and uses
‘‘smoke-and-mirrors’’ accounting
measures that would make even Bernie
Madoff blush. But that is only the start
of the concerning proposals that we
have heard from the folks on the left.
Our colleague from Massachusetts said
if she wins the Presidency, she will
soak the American taxpayer even more
in an attempt to fund her completely
unworkable healthcare proposal.
The differences are pretty stark in
the approach: pro-growth, job-creating,
economy-growing policies or Big Gov-
ernment, even socialist policies. Those
seem to be the two most obvious
choices. I know what camp I am in, and
I know what camp that Texans are in
on this topic.
This constant effort to belittle the
progress we have made because of tax
reform reminds me of when NANCY
PELOSI compared the savings of the
American people under tax reform to
‘‘crumbs.’’ She called them ‘‘crumbs.’’
One Texan named Mark told me that
his take-home pay increased $302 a
month. That may be crumbs to NANCY
PELOSI, but Mark said it would cover
his cable, his internet, and his auto in-
surance bills. He doesn’t consider that
crumbs.
Another gentleman named Gilbert
told me that he and his wife are retired
and living on pensions. When they saw
a decrease in their Federal tax deduc-
tion that allows them to bring home an
additional $400 a month, they said at
first they thought it was a mistake,
until they learned it was true and,
good news, $400 a month more.
A retired Air Force colonel from
Brownsville named David told me that
the benefit seems like more than
‘‘crumbs’’ to him.
But I have no doubt that here in this
hyper-politicized environment of Wash-
ington, DC, that pundits and folks on
the left will continue to try to criticize
tax reform and belittle the progress
that we have made, but those Texans
who are reaping the benefits of this law
every day are proof positive that they
are wrong and that the law is working
as we intended.
Despite what I hear from folks on the
left, this is an incredible time for our
economy. We have made taxes simpler,
fairer, and lower for hard-working
American families. And we will keep
working to remove the regulatory bur-
dens that will help unleash the power
of the free market. For more than 150
years, we have been the world’s largest
economy, and because of pro-growth
policies like tax reform, that will only
continue to get better.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Iowa.
VETERANS DAY
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, having
worn our great Nation’s colors in Oper-
ation Iraqi Freedom, veterans hold a
special place in my heart. Some of my
favorite moments in Iowa are centered
on honoring our veterans and their
families with the medals and the rec-
ognition they have earned. Oftentimes,
these humble heroes don’t want to step
forward and receive the honor they are
due.
Glenn McDole is a great example of
this. Glenn served in World War II and
faced some very, very dark days, being
only 1 of the 11, out of a total of 150,
who survived the Palawan massacre.
Glenn was captured in 1941, and he
came home to Iowa in 1945. It wasn’t
until the early 1980s that he started
speaking about his military experi-
ence.
When he returned home from the
war, he didn’t skip a beat in his serv-
ice. Glenn quickly joined the Iowa
State Patrol and then the Polk County
Sheriff’s Office. Glenn lived a very full
life of service. Yet his heroic actions in
uniform would go unnoticed for so
many years.
I am so grateful that his family got
in touch with my office, and we were
able to track down the more than 13
medals that he should have received for
his service. Presenting the medals to
his family earlier this year in my office
in Des Moines was truly a beautiful
moment.
The medals presented to Glenn’s fam-
ily—and the number of other veterans
and families across Iowa who have re-
ceived these well-deserved recogni-
tions—represent duty, honor, and sac-
rifice. It is the heroic stories of these
very veterans, like Glenn, that truly
inspire me to keep fighting for our vet-
erans day in and day out.
As someone who commanded men
and women overseas during Operation
Iraqi Freedom and then served as the
battalion commander of the largest
battalion in the Iowa Army National
Guard, I have a deep connection and
appreciation for our veterans.
Just this past weekend, as I was
wrapping up my 99-county tour in
Iowa, I was able to spend some time
with more of those Iowa veterans at
my veterans’ resource fair. We were
sharing stories about those hard times.
We were laughing about the good
times. We talked about concerns they
have with the VA and making sure
they are getting the quality of care
they have earned. We talked about the
work we have done in the Senate to im-
prove their well-being.
In just the past few years, under the
Trump administration, we have been
able to expand access to services
through legislation like the VA MIS-
SION Act, a bipartisan bill that I
proudly helped to get signed into law.
This important bill included a number
of my priorities, like allowing qualified
VA health providers to practice tele-
medicine across State lines and vet-
erans to receive their care through
telemedicine, including vital mental
healthcare treatment, and doing it
from the comfort of their own home.
President Trump just signed another
one of my bills into law, the HAVEN
Act, which protects the economic secu-
rity and well-being of veterans and
their families who rely on disability
benefits and may be experiencing fi-
nancial hardship.
I continue to press the VA to take a
hard look at their hiring practices and
to make sure the people treating and
providing care to our veterans have a
record of quality care, specifically by
introducing the bipartisan Ensuring
Quality Care for Our Veterans Act.
The legislation ensures that the VA
is absolutely held accountable for how
they help care for their veterans, and I
am continuing to press them on that
issue. We must work tirelessly to re-
store hope in the institutions that have
asked so much of our Nation’s heroes,
plain and simple. Veterans must have
reliable, quality mental and physical
healthcare. There is no other option.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.021 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6423
November 6, 2019
Folks, as we take a moment to re-
flect on the work we have done and
continue to do in Congress on behalf of
these men and women, we should also
pause, as we do every year on Veterans
Day, to simply honor their service and
the sacrifices they have made for our
country and for our freedom.
Serving in the military provided me
some of the best years, the best friends,
the best experiences, and the best
memories of my life.
Each year, Veterans Day serves as a
stark reminder of the daily sacrifice
made by those who have served this
country bravely and selflessly.
Veterans in Iowa and across our Na-
tion, you have my support and my
deepest gratitude today and every day
of the year.
When men and women sacrifice time
with their families and give up holi-
days, comfort, and their livelihoods to
protect our Nation and defend the free-
doms we often take for granted, we
must fulfill our commitment to caring
for them when they return home.
To all of my fellow veterans, may
God bless you and keep you.
To their families, I thank you so
much for standing behind your loved
ones in our country’s time of need.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, first of
all, I want to say how much I appre-
ciate Senator ERNST. When she talks
about veterans, she talks about her
own experience but also the veterans
she has served with and sees every day.
This goes to the heart of her great
dedication to the people who are cur-
rently serving.
Veterans Day is a day that we come
to celebrate every year. It is a national
holiday, but in so many ways, it is
uniquely a local holiday. Events across
Missouri and across all of our States
are dramatically different based on
where you are and the way that com-
munity, over time or maybe on a spe-
cial occasion, has decided this is going
to be the way they are uniquely going
to celebrate Veterans Day. These cere-
monies often include gestures of re-
spect that are repeated over and over
again, and that is exactly what you
should do with respect. Respect doesn’t
wear out. We lay wreaths. We play
music. We pledge to the flag, I think in
many unique ways on Veterans Day, as
we think about those who have been
willing to defend that flag at all costs.
There may be a 21-gun salute. There
may be a parade.
There are lots of different ways we
celebrate, and every community honors
its own neighbors in a different way. If
you grew up in that community and
you look at the wall with the commu-
nity members’ names or you look at
the register at the courthouse with the
names of those who gave their lives in
one of our wars, you recognize those
names. They are the last names of the
people you went to school with. They
are the last names of the people you
grew up alongside of. They are often
the names of families who still live in
that community.
I was thinking about this, and I
thought about a name that was given
to one of my good friends. His middle
name was after his uncle who had died
in World War II, and he didn’t particu-
larly like his middle name. One day, he
said to my dad: ‘‘I hate that name. I
don’t like my middle name. I wish it
wasn’t my middle name.’’ What he
didn’t know was that my dad was on
his uncle’s basketball team. My dad
quickly pointed that out. He said:
‘‘Your uncle was one of the finest
young men I ever knew, and he never
got to be an older man because he gave
his life in World War II.’’ When my
friend was born 15 years later, his fam-
ily wanted to remember the name of
that person who served and made the
ultimate sacrifice. Those are the kinds
of things we think about in commu-
nities on Veterans Day.
I will be going to several events—one
at Camdenton High School in
Camdenton, MO. They will be recog-
nizing 32 veterans at that event. They
will also be recognizing the new Junior
ROTC Program at the high school.
When talking about local character,
that is sort of what we are talking
about. In Camdenton, they are hon-
oring not only those who served and
sacrificed previously but also a new
generation that is stepping up and will-
ing to serve among those being recog-
nized on Veterans Day.
I am going to go to a ceremony in
Wright County, which is just a little
bit down the road, just an hour and 15
minutes away from Camdenton. In that
ceremony, they are dedicating a new
Wright County Patriots Memorial in
Hartville. The memorial honors people
from the area who served and died in
every conflict from the Civil War to
the War on Terror. The organizers have
made it clear that this is a day of cele-
bration and honor, not of sorrow. It is
a day to celebrate those who served.
Some got their names on the wall. Oth-
ers didn’t give their lives in conflict
but were willing to put on the uniform
and go through the training and in
many cases into dangerous situations.
Maybe they didn’t have to make the ul-
timate sacrifice, but on Veterans Day,
we recognize veterans who were willing
to serve. That is exactly what Veterans
Day should be.
This will be the 100th anniversary of
the first Veterans Day, which was
originally called Armistice Day. It was
Armistice Day because it commemo-
rated the end of World War I. World
War I was called The Great War, and it
was called The War to End All Wars.
That is not what happened, but that is
what people thought, in the hours after
World War I, might have happened. It
was so horrible, so terrible, and so
many lives were lost that they thought
it might be the war to end all wars. It
ended on the 11th hour of the 11th day
of the 11th month, 100 years ago.
The United States lost 116,000 people
in the relatively short time we were in
that war. We got in the war late. We
made a difference in the war, but
116,000 people were lost in that period
of time, in that truly grueling battle in
World War I. Another 200,000 U.S.
troops were wounded in that war.
The first Veterans Day 1 year later
was not about what was lost; it was a
celebration of what was won. It began
with the end of the war. It reaffirmed a
commitment to democracy. On that
first holiday 100 years ago, President
Wilson said that ‘‘the reflections of Ar-
mistice Day will be filled with solemn
pride in the heroism of those who died
in the country’s service and with grati-
tude for victory.’’ We remember the
heroism of those who were lost and all
who were willing to serve, and, as on
that first anniversary of the end of
World War I, we remember the victory
that was achieved. We use this occa-
sion to honor and remember our vet-
erans with pride and gratitude.
I am glad we are continuing to build
new memorials, like the one in Wright
County. I am glad we continue to
honor people who are willing to serve,
like the recognition of the new JROTC
Program at Camdenton High School.
A lot of things have changed in the
100 years since the end of World War I,
but the point is, Veterans Day hasn’t
changed. This is not something Ameri-
cans used to do; this is something we
continue to do, and, as Senator ERNST
said so well, it is something we need to
do every day.
Veterans Day is a special day of rec-
ognition, but we need to ensure that
veterans have what they need while
they are serving, and once they become
veterans, we need to make sure they
have everything they were promised
and then some, including every access
to healthcare that they were promised.
I think we have successfully ex-
panded not only the kind of healthcare
people can get but also the way they
can get their healthcare, respect and
appreciation, remembrance of what
they did and how that might have led
to a behavioral health challenge or a
health challenge of some other kind,
and a country willing to step up for
those who were willing to step up for
us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, in Au-
gust I had the honor of traveling to a
tiny town, to a small diner in Auburn,
IN. The purpose of my visit was to
present a military service medal that
was nearly 75 years in the making.
Over the last few months, I have had a
lot of opportunities to think about
those moments in Sandra D’s Cafe and
what they have meant to me. As we ap-
proach Veterans Day, I would like to
share a few of those lessons.
I served in the military for 10 years,
and I saw firsthand the sacrifices made
by our men and women in uniform. As
an elected representative, I have had
further opportunity to visit veterans
who served in conflict zones and fami-
lies who made incredible sacrifices to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.024 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6424 November 6, 2019
keep us all free. I learned just how
much a sacrifice we truly ask of our
troops and their families.
In the Marine Corps, we have a
motto: ‘‘Semper Fidelis.’’ Rarely do we
tell folks what it means. It means ‘‘al-
ways faithful’’—faithful to our Nation
and faithful to all those who protect it,
faithful to all those who serve in peace-
time and are prepared to protect it. It
is why I wear this memorial bracelet
around my wrist. The folks back home
know I wear it. I remind them of it
often because it is important. This
bracelet honors LCpl Alec Terwiske. He
was a fellow U.S. marine from a small
town in Dubois, IN, in southern Indi-
ana. On September 3, 2012, he was trag-
ically killed—for all of us—in Afghani-
stan.
His mom, Sandy, has become a close
friend. She asked me to wear this
bracelet to honor his memory, and I do
so. I do so proudly every day to remem-
ber Alec and Sandy and the rest of
their family and also to remember all
those men and women who love our
country and what it stands for so much
that they are prepared, if necessary,
when called to do so, to put their lives
on the line for all of us. It takes a spe-
cial person to take up arms in defense
of our country. It takes a belief and
cause much greater than ourselves.
That cause is, in fact, what America is
all about. It is that very belief that
makes me think back to that cafe in
Auburn.
Sandra D’s father, Robert Egli, was a
World War II veteran who survived the
war. He lived a long and happy life
back home in Indiana and didn’t say
much about his military service. In
fact, when I showed up, Sandra didn’t
know much about the story. I did a lit-
tle personal internet research in the
car on the way there to deliver her fa-
ther’s missing Bronze Star, and what I
found out was very interesting.
It was World War II, in the Phil-
ippines, the Pacific theater. Robert’s
unit was involved in a battle that
saved the lives of 511 American pris-
oners of war. His actions and those of
the other American GIs with him al-
lowed those Americans to return home,
to marry their sweethearts, to start a
family, and to pursue the American
dream.
Now, think about it. This is the beau-
ty and the magic of the gift that so
many of our men and women in uni-
form have given or are prepared to
give. Because of the sacrifice of Robert
Egli, there are hundreds of Americans
who have had children and grand-
children who are now alive today. As a
result of his beautiful act of courage,
his selfless act of service on behalf of
all of us, his patriotism, his sacrifice,
maybe tens of thousands of people
across America are alive.
For these reasons and many, many
more, we must never stop working to
ensure that our veterans receive the re-
spect they deserve. That includes en-
suring that our veterans receive the
care they are due after they are back,
safe and secure, at home.
The Senate has already taken up and
passed many pieces of nonpartisan leg-
islation—commonsense legislation
which I cosponsored and was proud to
see become law that will improve the
lives of our veterans.
The VA MISSION Act is perhaps the
most notable and ambitious effort
where we have all come together to
support our veterans. This law has al-
ready dramatically improved the way
veterans receive their healthcare. We
have also taken steps to speed up the
appeals process for veterans through
the Veterans Appeals Improvement and
Modernization Act. No one should ever
have to wait years or, perhaps even in
the worst instance, pass away, waiting
on their benefits. We made significant
improvement with respect to that proc-
ess.
We improved the way our veterans
are cared for in nursing homes, and we
worked together to provide urgently
needed support for veterans who may
be contemplating suicide. This year, I
have introduced another piece of legis-
lation, working with TAMMY
DUCKWORTH, a wounded warrior herself
and distinguished Member on the other
side of the aisle. We introduced the
VETS Safe Travel Act to provide TSA
Precheck benefits for those veterans
who have been severely wounded on the
battlefield. This VETS Safe Travel Act
would help 70,000 amputees, 100,000 par-
alyzed veterans, and 130,000 blind vet-
erans who are currently subjected to a
rigorous and demeaning screening
process when traveling. Unfortunately,
the legislation has, at least so far, been
languishing in the House of Represent-
atives, and its delay, of course, means
veterans in need will be left waiting. I
would really hope that before the
House takes another recess week, they
can take up and pass this important
legislation. I think our veterans have
more than earned it.
Working together, we made signifi-
cant strides for our veterans in recent
years, but of course we must always
keep striving to do more. It was George
Washington, a veteran himself, of
course, who once said:
The willingness with which our young peo-
ple are likely to serve in any war, no matter
how justified, shall be directly proportional
as to how they perceive the veterans of ear-
lier wars were treated and appreciated by
their nation.
Let’s treat them well. Let’s appre-
ciate them fully this Veterans Day and
every day. I encourage you to remem-
ber your neighbors, the servicemem-
bers in your State, and servicemembers
around the country and deployed
around the world. I encourage you to
think of all those people before and
those still with us who are proud to
call themselves veterans of our mili-
tary.
May God bless our veterans. May God
continue to bless America.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, as you
know, this coming Monday, November
11, is Veterans Day. I have heard my
colleagues pay tribute to veterans in
their own special way, and I wanted to
be a part of that group today to offer a
mighty thank-you to our men and
women who serve.
I stand before you to honor the brave
men and women of the U.S. armed serv-
ices, past and present, who have stood
up to protect us and our freedoms that
we hold so dear.
Veterans Day, to me, is a day to re-
flect on the sacrifices made by all of
those who served. It is a time to say
thank you. It is a time to pause and
think about the veterans themselves
and their families. It is also a time for
younger people, and I am talking ele-
mentary-aged students, to really see
the pride and the commitment our vet-
erans over time have had. Whether you
are going to your hometown parade or
going to a cemetery ceremony or just
talking about it within your own
home, throughout America’s history,
our military has been regarded as the
greatest in the world, and it sure is.
Our military would not be what it is
without the men and women of our All-
Volunteer Force.
I am a daughter of a World War II
veteran. I grew up hearing smidgeons
of his stories off and on the battlefield,
and I have always been in awe of those
who served. He was very proud of his
service in World War II. November 20,
1944, my father, SSG Arch A. Moore,
Jr., from Moundsville, WV, was serving
somewhere on the Belgium-German
line when he was shot in the face, and
he was left for dead on the battlefield
for 2 days. He talked about it was in a
beet field. I remember him saying it
was in a beet field. I didn’t like beets,
and now I knew why I really didn’t like
beets. He also talked about how he was
equipped with some painkiller that he
could put on his leg to sort of ease the
pain as he lay there hoping somebody
would come and get him. That was the
end of his service on the battlefield. He
was taken and miraculously had a
great recovery after probably a year of
recovery over in England.
For his actions on the battlefield, he
received the Purple Heart, Bronze Star,
Combat Infantryman Badge, and the
European Theater of Operations Rib-
bon with three battle stars. Like my
father, so many of the veterans of
World War II faced a harsh reality in
this conflict. This year marks the 75th
anniversary of two of World War II’s
most notable battles: D-Day and Battle
of the Bulge. Battle of the Bulge is
going to be in December next month.
Actually, my dad’s platoon went on to
fight in the Battle of the Bulge, and
only three of his platoon survived.
D-Day is known as the turning point
in the war because those brave soldiers
pushed their way through German
forces to take back Normandy. If any-
body wants to see what a sacrifice our
country made in World War II, and
more for young people to see, I would
recommend going to the cemetery in
Normandy and seeing those white
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.025 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6425
November 6, 2019
markers of a very young American
force. While there were many casual-
ties, the United States and our allies
prevailed and managed to change the
direction of the war at the same time.
As I said, next month we will remem-
ber the 75th anniversary of the Battle
of the Bulge. Many Americans lost
their lives fending off the German of-
fensive, but we were eventually vic-
torious, which paved the way to the
end of the war 5 months later.
West Virginia is also home to one of
the last remaining Medal of Honor re-
cipients from World War II, and that is
our own Hershel ‘‘Woody’’ Williams. He
turned 96 last month. He travels the
country talking about veterans and
love of country. I ran the Marine Mara-
thon 2 weeks ago in honor of all ma-
rines, but I thought about Woody as a
marine. I say I ran my first marathon—
probably my last—but I thought about
Woody as he valiantly fought in the
battle of Iwo Jima and rightfully
earned the military’s most prestigious
medals for his actions during the war.
Anecdotally, I think he will be leading
the parade in New York City on Vet-
erans Day.
With the growing age of this Nation’s
World War II veterans, I encourage our
youth to take the time to listen to the
stories of heroism from our ‘‘greatest
generation.’’ Without their valiant ac-
tions and dedication to preserving our
freedoms, this country would not be
what it is today.
We also must honor all of our vet-
erans from all our eras. Whether it is
World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Afghan-
istan, the selfless actions of our U.S.
soldiers must not go unrecognized.
They put their lives on the line to af-
ford us the opportunity to live in the
greatest country on Earth. We can
have our own religious freedom, free-
dom of speech, freedom of the press,
but all the freedoms we enjoy are be-
cause of the folks who went before us
who were dedicated and willing to
serve.
On Capitol Hill, as we know, there
are many divisive issues, but ensuring
that our veterans receive the support
they have earned through their dedi-
cated service to our country is some-
thing we all agree on. Like the gen-
tleman here today, the Senator from
North Dakota, I happen to serve on the
Appropriations Committee. I am on the
Subcommittee on Military Construc-
tion, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies. It has been our priority to
make sure veterans programs receive
the funding necessary to best assist our
men and women who have served the
country.
In recent years, Congress has made
great strides in trying to improve the
VA system, which can always be im-
proved even more, but the legislation
we put forward, the VA MISSION Act,
I think, will help and has helped. It im-
proved the VA healthcare system by
establishing a permanent veterans
community care program and expand-
ing our VA caregiving benefits to vet-
erans from all eras. When they say it is
10 miles as the crow flies in moun-
tainous States like West Virginia, if
you are driving in West Virginia, that
is not going to take you 10 minutes.
That could take you an hour, and that
is not because of the traffic. Providing
community care to our veterans is im-
portant because it allows them to re-
ceive the care they need without hav-
ing to travel these long and sometimes
arduous routes.
Our work must not stop here. We
must continue to work on legislation
that will benefit our veteran commu-
nity. As a Senator, one of my greatest
privileges is to make sure our veterans
receive the respect and admiration
they have earned throughout their
service. This is especially true given
that West Virginia has one of the larg-
est per capita populations of veterans
in this country. The pride West Vir-
ginia veterans have is truly remark-
able. After service, these men and
women are the bedrock of our commu-
nities and make significant contribu-
tions to making them better.
Rightfully so, Virginians have a
great amount of admiration for those
who have served, and it is reflected in
our communities. We have a lot of stat-
ues, a lot of parks, a lot of commemo-
rative highways, a lot of moments of
silence in West Virginia to honor our
veterans we have lost and those who
have gone before us.
I was marching in the Ripley Vet-
erans Day parade last Veterans Day,
and I was overwhelmed by the support
a small town would show its veterans.
Whether someone has served in combat
or assisted with the daily operations of
the military, their dedication to de-
fending this country must not be unno-
ticed.
On Monday, I urge everyone to take
a moment to thank a veteran. At the
same time, this shouldn’t be limited to
just Veterans Day. We should thank
our veterans each and every day. It is
important that we pay them the re-
spect when the opportunity arises. I
really feel good when I am getting on a
plane and the announcement is made
that our military in uniform are al-
lowed to enter the plane. You know
how those crowds get up when it is
time to get on the plane. Many times,
the crowd will part and, in admiration
of our military, welcome that little bit
of a head start they get to board the
plane. Without great sacrifices and
dedication to defending this flag, this
country would not be what it is.
I say God bless our veterans. God
bless our country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise to
recognize and thank our veterans and
their families. I commend the good
Senator from the State of West Vir-
ginia. I appreciate her remarks and her
incredible support for our veterans.
Frankly, I want to mention my admi-
ration for her having just completed
the Marine Corps Marathon. I think
that is absolutely remarkable. I know
she is an avid runner, but to complete
a marathon is no small achievement.
Of course, to do it as part of the Marine
Marathon is another great way to
honor our marvelous and wonderful
veterans. My father was in the Marine
Corps, so I have a special affinity, of
course, because of that as well. I appre-
ciate all of our amazing, wonderful vet-
erans.
I am really honored to join my col-
leagues. I know the good Senator from
Kansas is next. As he chairs our Ag
Committee, he and I have had a lot of
opportunity to work on agricultural
issues. He is also another member of
the Marine Corps, and I know he has
served with great distinction.
Again, it is a great honor to be here
today and to join my colleagues in hon-
oring our phenomenal veterans.
In June, I had the opportunity to join
a Senate delegation in Normandy for
the 75th anniversary of D-Day. We had
the honor of meeting with some of the
veterans who had landed on the beach-
es of Normandy and were again re-
minded of the tremendous sacrifices
that our Nation’s veterans have made
to preserve our way of life and keep our
Nation free. It really was an honor to
meet with some of those veterans and
to be there in Normandy on the 75th
anniversary. To see where they had
landed and then to talk with them
about it was an incredible way to relive
history and, of course, to honor their
incredible sacrifice.
We also recognize that those who
serve do not serve alone. We appre-
ciate, too, the sacrifices of their fami-
lies and their loved ones, who have sup-
ported them and our Nation’s veterans
in their service, who have done so
throughout the history of our country,
and who serve today, along with their
veteran family members—their hus-
bands or wives or sons or daughters,
whoever they may be—who have
donned the uniform to serve this great
Nation. We honor their service and the
service of all those who are in harm’s
way today.
While we set aside a day each year to
express our gratitude, every day, we
are reminded of the dedication of those
who have served to protect our freedom
and our liberties. Our veterans cannot
be thanked enough. Given their service
and sacrifice, the least our Nation can
do is to uphold its commitment to pro-
vide our veterans with the healthcare,
benefits, and recognition they have so
richly earned.
In the Senate, we have passed land-
mark legislation, including the VA
MISSION Act, to support our veterans
and provide them with the care and
services they have earned. The VA
MISSION Act strengthens the VA’s
ability to provide care for our veterans,
and when the VA is unable to do so, it
gives our veterans more options by al-
lowing them to seek care in their home
communities. This has been a top pri-
ority for veterans in my State, in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.026 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6426 November 6, 2019
rural State of North Dakota. Giving
veterans more options closer to home
for healthcare and long-term care is
and must continue to be an absolute
priority.
We are also continuing to work with
the VA and long-term care providers to
ensure that the providers who want to
treat veterans are able to do so with-
out undertaking unnecessary burdens.
We are helping veterans access long-
term care—nursing home care, home-
based care—closer to home and near
their loved ones.
In the course of their dedicated serv-
ice, our military members make sac-
rifices in many ways. This includes in-
juries both seen and unseen. We owe
our veterans the best possible care in
treating these wounds. That is why we
have been working to improve and
strengthen the VA’s mental healthcare
and suicide prevention programs. This
includes expanding access to alter-
native treatment options, like
hyperbaric oxygen therapy, HBOT, for
veterans who have not benefited from
traditional therapies for post-trau-
matic stress disorder, PTSD.
Additionally, I am a cosponsor of the
Improve Well-Being for Veterans Act—
legislation introduced by Senator
BOOZMAN—that would expand and bet-
ter coordinate services that are aimed
at preventing veteran suicide.
As chairman of Senate Committee on
Indian Affairs, I recognize that Native
Americans serve in our Nation’s Armed
Forces in higher numbers than does
any other ethnic group. That is why I
continue to advance legislation, like
our bipartisan Tribal HUD-VASH Act,
that supports Native American vet-
erans.
Additionally, we are working to pro-
vide our veterans with resources and
opportunities to help them continue to
utilize the skills they learned in the
military as they transition back to ci-
vilian life. One example is our effort to
help veterans receive training to be
commercial pilots.
Last week, the Senate passed its fis-
cal year 2020 Transportation funding
bill with provisions from the American
Aviator Act. I introduced the bipar-
tisan legislation with Senator BALDWIN
so as to expand commercial pilot train-
ing opportunities for our veterans. Our
country needs commercial pilots, so it
only makes sense that we leverage the
skills our veterans learned in the mili-
tary to help them meet this need. It is
good for our country, and it is good for
our veterans.
These are just a few examples of our
efforts to support our veterans.
Our freedom has been secured by the
sweat and sacrifice of the courageous
men and women who throughout our
history have bravely done what has
been needed in order to protect our Na-
tion and our way of life. We honor the
courage and sacrifice of this Nation’s
veterans by ensuring they have the re-
sources and support they need and have
earned.
To veterans in my home State of
North Dakota and to veterans across
the country, we say thank you, not
only on Veterans Day but every day.
May God bless these brave Americans
and this great country they serve.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, at
the end of World War I—the supposed
war to end all wars; we all wish that it
did—in the 11th hour, in the 11th
month on the 11th day, we declared ar-
mistice. The war was over. Armistice
Day is still recognized, but it is now
called Veterans Day.
This coming Monday, on 11/11, as we
always do on the 11th day of the 11th
month, we will pause as a nation and
say thank you to the men and women
who serve us in the U.S. military. It is
the most moral and the most lethal
fighting force the world has ever
known, and we are grateful. To the
men and women who make up our vet-
erans, those serving Actively, those
serving in the Reserves, those serving
in our National Guard, and those who
have served both at home and abroad,
we are grateful for their service.
It has been an absolute privilege to
serve our veterans in Oklahoma. There
are members of my own family, like
my Uncle Robby, who is a marine, and
my next-door neighbor, who is in the
National Guard. Scattered throughout
my family and throughout my own
neighborhood, I have a chance to smile
and say thank you to folks on a regular
basis for what they have done in the
past and what they continue to do
right now.
Over the past several sessions of Con-
gress, we have worked to help our vet-
erans and to help those who are serving
currently. We have passed legislation
like the VA MISSION Act, which dra-
matically increases veterans’ care and
gives veterans the opportunity to go to
different places in order to get care.
Now they don’t have to drive across my
great State to get to a VA center. They
can go somewhere closer to home,
where it is more convenient for them,
rather than go to a VA center. That is
a great asset to them and to their fam-
ilies, who have sacrificed over and over
again so that their loved ones can
serve. They shouldn’t have to sacrifice
even more now.
This Congress has made major im-
provements to and has expanded the GI
bill. We have improved the onerous dis-
ability compensation and appeals proc-
ess for the VA, which has long been an
issue. We have increased the quality of
care at the VA, and we have made sure
that staff members who work at our
VA centers are held to account. By far,
the majority of people who serve in our
VA centers serve on behalf of our vet-
erans and are passionate and grateful
to do that. Yet, for some who cannot
get the job done, we shouldn’t give our
veterans lesser care because of those
individuals.
Those are all of the things that have
been done just to say thank you. Yet it
is interesting to me, the number of
times I have talked to veterans and
have said ‘‘thank you for your serv-
ice,’’ and they have responded with
something like ‘‘it is the least I could
do’’ or ‘‘absolutely’’ or ‘‘no thanks nec-
essary’’ or ‘‘it was my honor to do it.’’
This is a group of individuals who
knows what it means to serve. We will
continue to say thanks to them.
On this Veterans Day, I will pause
with a family at a bridge in Oklahoma
as the name of the bridge transitions
to the Damon Leehan Bridge in remem-
brance of an Oklahoman who, in 2011,
died in Afghanistan while protecting
our freedom.
Our veterans don’t ask for our
thanks, but we can’t give them thanks
enough for what they and their fami-
lies have done to keep this great Na-
tion secure.
Thank you to our veterans.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, for gen-
erations, America has been a beacon of
hope and freedom around the world.
When confronted with tyranny and
evil, America has always overcome. In
every generation, patriots have an-
swered the call to service in defense of
our country and in defense of freedom
and democracy. Their bravery and will-
ingness to serve is a testament to the
American and Montanan spirit.
It is my highest honor to serve as a
voice for Montana’s veterans in the
Halls of Congress. You see, Montana
has one of the highest veteran popu-
lations per capita in the United States.
Montana’s veterans are what make liv-
ing in Big Sky Country all the more
special.
I know I speak for most Montanans
when I say, while growing up, we
learned very early on about the impor-
tance of service to our country. For
me, that lesson was taught by my fa-
ther. My dad is a marine who served in
the 58th Rifle Company out of Billings,
MT. He instilled in me the values of
hard work, of sacrifice, of service to
others, and of humility. I am grateful
for his service to our country, and I am
proud to live every day with the values
that he taught me when I was so
young. Those same values that my dad
taught me are held by veterans all
across Montana.
I am grateful for Montana’s veterans.
I am grateful to have several veterans
serve on my staff both in Montana and
in Washington, DC. I thank Denny in
Helena, Robin in Great Falls, Jim in
Bozeman, and Christy in Washington,
DC. They are all Montanans who are
also veterans who serve on my team
and serve the people of Montana.
We have an extraordinary legacy of
service in Montana. We are home to he-
roes like Medal of Honor recipient
Army SSG Travis Atkins, who was
honored by President Trump at the
White House this year for his ultimate
sacrifice in defense of our country.
Right now, in Congress, I am working
to rename the Bozeman VA healthcare
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.028 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6427
November 6, 2019
facility after this great, fallen, Mon-
tana hero. Travis and I attended the
same high school in Bozeman.
I make it my top priority to hear
from all of our veterans across all cor-
ners of our State and to learn about
the issues they face, such as access to
rural healthcare, or to ensure they re-
ceive the recognition they deserve. In
fact, just last month, I was in Great
Falls to help honor veteran Alfred E.
Shryer with the Bronze Star Medal for
his service in Vietnam. It was recogni-
tion that was long overdue—nearly 50
years in the making.
After all our veterans and their fami-
lies have given to our Nation, it is due
time that our country gives them the
care, the treatment, and the recogni-
tion they have earned. That is why I
am taking action. I have introduced a
number of bipartisan solutions to help
resolve issues that plague our vets, like
my bipartisan bill to protect veterans’
pensions from scam artists. I have also
led a bipartisan effort to ensure that
our Blue Water veterans who were ex-
posed to Agent Orange while they
served in Vietnam receive the
healthcare they deserve. Those who
risk it all—those who put their lives on
the line in defense of our freedom—de-
serve the utmost honor, thanks, and
care.
To all of our veterans, thank you for
your service. Our country is freer and
our country is safer because of you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, thank
you to my colleagues from West Vir-
ginia, North Dakota, Oklahoma, and
now the great State of Montana.
The distinguished Senator from Mon-
tana is sitting at the desk that was oc-
cupied by Conrad Burns, a Senator
from Montana who was a private in the
U.S. Marine Corps.
I thank the Senator from Montana
for his remarks and for his service in
this body.
I rise today to speak in support of
our Nation’s veterans, Veterans Day,
which is coming up on Monday, and the
244th—244th—birthday Sunday of our
Nation’s force in readiness, the U.S.
Marine Corps.
I am a marine—the senior marine in
the Congress—and my dad was a ma-
rine serving in Guam, Kenya, Okinawa,
and Iwo Jima. Tough duty.
On this holiday, we remember those
who have sacrificed for our freedoms,
especially the more than 1 million who
have given their lives for our country.
Every American should remember
these heroes.
As a nation, we are also home to
more than 18 million living heroes who
have served with distinction in our
armed services.
On this Veterans Day, I would espe-
cially like to single out a great veteran
who has also served with honor and re-
spect in this body—Senator JOHNNY
ISAKSON.
JOHN HARDY ISAKSON, born December
28, 1944, just 3 short years after the at-
tack on Pearl Harbor, began his service
to our country in the Georgia Air Na-
tional Guard from 1966 to 1972, leaving
the service at the rank of staff ser-
geant.
He then continued to serve as a mem-
ber in both the Georgia State Senate
and House, as well as the U.S. House of
Representatives, before his fellow
Georgians sent him to the U.S. Senate.
In 2005, he came back full circle to
his military roots, joining the Senate
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in
2015, he took over the chairmanship.
Let the record reflect that, as chair-
man, he has worked tirelessly—tire-
lessly—to reform veterans’ healthcare
and benefits, as well as to bring over-
sight and accountability to the Depart-
ment.
Under his leadership, the Senate
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs has
passed 57 pieces of legislation that were
signed into law—57. You heard that
correctly; 57 bills became law.
I think I have had the gavel in four
different committees—57? I don’t think
I have gotten to that yet.
Let me just go through some of the
most significant reforms that JOHNNY
ISAKSON steered through the Senate
that became law: the VA MISSION Act,
which puts veterans in charge of their
own healthcare; the Department of
Veterans Affairs Accountability and
Whistleblower Protection Act, which
holds the VA accountable to the vet-
erans it serves; the Harvey W.
Colmery—happens to be a Kansan—
Veterans Educational Assistance Act,
which improves veterans’ GI bill bene-
fits; the Veterans Appeals Improve-
ment and Modernization Act, which
modernizes the VA’s appeal process;
and one of the most important, the
Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for
American Veterans Act, which helps
get mental health services to our
warfighters who need them the most.
This is only a small portion of his
long list of accomplishments, and his
committee is not resting on their lau-
rels. As of this morning, they have held
110 hearings, conducted more than 80
oversight visits, and have confirmed 23
Presidential nominations.
In my experience as chairman of a
Senate committee—I think three of
them, maybe four—you simply can’t
get this type of work done without help
from those across the aisle.
This is just another example of who
JOHNNY is as a person and a legislator.
He doesn’t make promises he can’t
keep, and he is willing to put partisan-
ship aside in order to get the absolute
best care for our Nation’s men and
women who have served.
In this body, there are those who
choose ideology—I understand that—
and partisan issues—I understand that
as well. But JOHNNY ISAKSON is some-
one who works with his colleagues to
pass legislation benefiting not only our
Nation’s veterans but every American’s
pocketbook and daily life.
I have a lot of personal memories
when JOHNNY would rope me in to com-
ing to a meeting, a bipartisan meeting,
to try to get what we thought was a
very important bill done. Sometimes I
had some concerns about joining those
outfits that he seemed to put together
when nobody else could, but I learned
pretty quickly that I better go, first, to
find out what was going on and then,
second, to watch this man carefully
craft a bipartisan agreement, working
with colleagues, listening to them.
When JOHNNY spoke, people usually got
to the edge of their chairs and listened.
That is how he got it done.
On behalf of the more than 18 million
veterans and their families this Vet-
erans Day, we celebrate his leadership
and sense of duty to country.
JOHNNY—JOHNNY ISAKSON—thank you
for your service. Senators eventually
come and go. I do not think we will see
the likeness of Senator JOHNNY ISAK-
SON for years to come.
Semper fi, my dear friend. I love you.
We love you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
WHISTLEBLOWERS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, before
I get into the substance of my remarks
on a very serious subject, I want to
thank my dear friend from Kansas for
his nice words about JOHNNY ISAKSON.
There is no word short of ‘‘beloved’’
that you would affix before JOHNNY
ISAKSON’s name in terms of this Cham-
ber, and I think that would probably be
true for every single Member—cer-
tainly the Senator from Kansas and
certainly the Senator from New York.
On July 30, 1778, the Continental Con-
gress passed unanimously the following
resolution: ‘‘Resolved, that it is the
duty of all persons in the service of the
United States . . . to give the earliest
information to Congress or other prop-
er authority of any misconduct, frauds
or misdemeanors committed by any of-
ficers or persons in the service of these
states.’’
That was in the Continental Congress
before our Nation was even formed—a
duty of citizens to protect the Amer-
ican people from those in government
who might conduct misconduct, fraud,
or misdemeanors.
From the earliest days of our Repub-
lic, our government has acknowledged
the vital role that whistleblowers play
in ensuring good governance and root-
ing out corruption, malfeasance, and
self-dealing.
Two nights ago, appallingly, at a po-
litical rally, President Trump and a
Member of this Chamber, the junior
Senator from Kentucky, publicly and
explicitly urged the press to disclose
the identity of the Federal whistle-
blower whose complaint triggered an
impeachment inquiry in the House of
Representatives.
A few days later, the same junior
Senator threatened to reveal the iden-
tity of the whistleblower himself.
I cannot stress enough how wrong
and dangerous—dangerous—these ef-
forts are.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.029 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6428 November 6, 2019
The United States is a nation of laws.
Whistleblower laws have existed since
the founding of our Republic to protect
patriotic Americans who come forward
and stand up for our Constitution. We
don’t get to determine when these laws
apply and when they don’t. We don’t
get to decide if the law applies whether
you like what the whistleblower said or
whether you don’t. These are laws. No
person—no person—is above the law.
This whistleblower, whose complaint
was deemed credible and urgent by a
Trump appointee, is protected by these
statutes. There is no legal doubt about
that. Every single Member of this
body—every single one—should stand
up and say that it is wrong to disclose
his or her identity. That is what my
colleague Senator HIRONO will ask us
to do in a moment.
Before she does, I want to thank my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
who have spoken up in defense of whis-
tleblower protections. Some of my Re-
publican colleagues have spent their
careers defending whistleblowers. We
need them today. We need these Repub-
lican colleagues, who should be here
standing up for the protection of whis-
tleblowers.
The threats we have seen over the
last few days are so egregious—so egre-
gious—that they demand bipartisan
outrage from one end of this Chamber
to the other, whether you are a Demo-
crat, Republican, Independent, liberal,
moderate, or conservative.
What is happening here is another
erosion of the values of this Republic
for political expediency. Exposing the
whistleblower’s identity would endan-
ger their health and safety and that of
their families. It would also be a
chilling message to future patriots
that they do their duty to report
wrongdoing at the risk of exposure, re-
taliation, and retribution.
Why don’t we see a single other Re-
publican stand up in favor of this
today? We should.
Let’s send a message today that the
Senate reaffirms our Nation’s long-
standing tradition of defending whis-
tleblowers. I urge every single Member
of the Senate to support it, and I recog-
nize somebody who has been valiant in
this fight to protect the duty enshrined
by the Continental Congress and the
Constitution, my good friend, the Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. RES. 408
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, if you
work for the Federal Government, you
work for the people. You have a duty
by law to come forward to report mis-
conduct, fraud, misdemeanors, and
other crimes going on in government.
This duty has been on the books
since 1778. Why? Because people work-
ing in government are in a pretty good
position to see when something is not
right in their workplace.
We want a government that is doing
right by us.
It is not easy for whistleblowers to
come forward to report wrongdoing in
government. That is why we have laws
that protect a whistleblower from in-
timidation, discrimination, and retal-
iation, and laws that protect their
identity.
On August 12, a whistleblower—and
we don’t know whether this was a man
or a woman, so for ease of reference, I
will refer to the whistleblower as
‘‘she’’—came forward, as the law re-
quired, to file a complaint with the In-
spector General of the Intelligence
Community.
The complaint alleged that the Presi-
dent was ‘‘using the power of his office
to solicit interference from a foreign
country in the 2020 U.S. election.’’
The inspector general, also as re-
quired, determined that the complaint
was credible and involved an urgent
concern.
The House, on learning of the whis-
tleblower’s complaint, began to ask
questions. What did the House inves-
tigation uncover? That the whistle-
blower’s complaint was right.
Bill Taylor, the top U.S. diplomat in
Ukraine; Tim Morrison, the top Russia
and Eastern Europe expert on the Na-
tional Security Council; and others
have corroborated the whistleblower’s
complaint about the President.
Just yesterday, the U.S. Ambassador
to the European Union, Gordon
Sondland, confirmed that security as-
sistance for Ukraine was dependent on
the Ukranian Government’s launching
an investigation into the President’s
political opponents.
Let’s face it. What Donald Trump did
was wrong. It is wrong for the Presi-
dent of the United States to shake
down the Ukrainian President to get
dirt on his political rivals in return for
almost $400 million in U.S. military aid
to help Ukraine fight Russia. Faced
with growing evidence of Donald
Trump’s wrongdoing, what happens?
What happens is a President and his
minions attack the whistleblower, sug-
gesting that she was spying and guilty
of treason.
Donald Trump has threatened the
whistleblower with ‘‘Big Con-
sequences’’—capital B, capital C—and
put her safety at risk with comments
such as: ‘‘I do not know why a person
that defrauds the American public
should be protected.’’ Guess what, he
wasn’t talking about himself.
Donald Trump’s devoted rightwing
allies have been quick to echo and am-
plify the President’s attacks. The whis-
tleblower’s own attorney warned Act-
ing Director of National Intelligence
Joseph Maguire that the President’s
threats are compromising her personal
safety. Just last Sunday, Donald
Trump said: ‘‘There have been stories
written about a certain individual, a
male, and they say he’s the whistle-
blower . . . if it’s him, you guys ought
to release the information.’’
House Minority Leader KEVIN
MCCARTHY also insisted that the whis-
tleblower ‘‘should come before the
committee . . . he needs to answer the
questions.’’ While speaking at a Trump
campaign rally, my colleague from
Kentucky who has joined me on the
floor today, demanded that the media
print the name of the whistleblower.
Representative JIM JORDAN, one of
Donald Trump’s fiercest allies, dis-
missed the whistleblower as biased and
called for her identity to be made pub-
lic.
With his attacks on the whistle-
blower, Donald Trump has made clear
that he will use the full power of his of-
fice to bully, intimidate, and threaten
anyone who dares to stand up to him or
to speak out against him.
Can you imagine what a young career
foreign service officer at the State De-
partment might do after seeing the
President tell the world that whistle-
blowers are spies who defraud our gov-
ernment? Do you think that person
would risk destroying their career and
suffer the wrath of Donald Trump and
his fiercest allies and supporters in re-
porting the President’s misconduct?
How about a career employee at the
Department of Defense who sees that
military aid is being held up to pres-
sure a foreign government to help the
President of the United States win re-
election? Do you think that Defense
Department employee would risk being
accused of betraying our country and
acting as a spy?
Let’s be clear here: The real purpose
of these attacks is to scare anyone else
who may be thinking of coming for-
ward to stay silent. We see the Presi-
dent, time and time again, through
tweets, in interviews, at his rallies,
openly attacking anyone who questions
or disagrees with him. The chilling ef-
fect of what the President is doing can-
not be overstated. It totally undercuts
our whistleblower laws. These are not
normal times. In normal times, we
would be protecting whistleblowers.
That is what this resolution does.
The resolution I am presenting af-
firms that if anyone expects public
servants to report misconduct, we have
a corresponding duty to protect their
identity and safeguard them from re-
taliation, from threats. The whistle-
blower has done her duty. Now, we need
to do ours.
Madam President, as if in legislative
session, I ask unanimous consent the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of S. Res. 408 introduced ear-
lier today; that the resolution be
agreed to; the preamble be agreed to;
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, reserving
the right to object.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2798
Mr. President, I support whistle-
blowers, and I do think they have a
role to play in keeping government ac-
countable. They should not lose their
jobs or be prosecuted because of their
willingness to speak, but what we have
seen over the last few years is that we
have a system that we should continue
to refine.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.031 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6429
November 6, 2019
When Edward Snowden exposed the
breadth of unconstitutional govern-
ment spying, that everything you do
can be seen and stored by the govern-
ment without cause, without an indi-
vidualized order, in secret, in bulk, in
defiance of the Fourth Amendment,
not one finger was raised by those
voices who are so proud now to defend
whistleblowers, not one of them stood
up for Edward Snowden.
Many, in fact, in Congress con-
demned him. They wanted to bring him
to trial. Senators talked about hanging
him from the closest tree, about exe-
cuting him. People called into question
his motives. Hillary Clinton implied
that Edward Snowden was a foreign
spy. CHUCK SCHUMER, who now has such
outrage and defense of the whistle-
blower statute, lifted not one finger for
Edward Snowden. In fact, he called him
a coward.
So really I think that the outrage we
see here is selective outrage, and it is
because they are intent on overturning
the election of the people. They are in-
tent on removing Trump from office,
no matter what, and they will use
whatever means they can to do it.
Interestingly though, despite all of
these people calling Edward Snowden a
traitor, Congress ended up abolishing
the bulk collection program that he ex-
posed. Congress knew that they had
done something illegal by collecting all
of your metadata, all of your phone
call data, without the permission of a
judge and that it violated the Fourth
Amendment.
They knew that he had probably be-
come the greatest whistleblower of all
time; yet where are the voices defend-
ing Edward Snowden now? Not one of
these people who fake outrage over this
whistleblower and President Trump
and impeachment—not one of them
will stand up for Edward Snowden.
They would still put him in jail for life,
if they could.
In the end, we did end bulk collection
because Edward Snowden bravely came
forward and said that the government
was lying to us, that James Clapper,
now a big President Trump hater, came
before the Senate and he lied directly
to Senator WYDEN when he said: We are
not collecting your data.
Yet where is Edward Snowden in all
of this, as these great defenders of the
whistleblower statute are here? Not a
word for Edward Snowden. Snowden
himself said that he didn’t have ade-
quate protection to bring his claims in-
ternally because he was a government
contractor and not an employee and
not subject to the whistleblower stat-
ute.
Subsequently, Congress fixed that.
Now, contractors in the intelligence
community can make whistleblower
claims. I agree with that. There are
also now protections for some other
contractors. We should extend and ex-
pand the protections, and we should
make this protection retroactive to ac-
count for people like Snowden.
So the bill I will introduce today will
expand the Whistleblower Act, it will
be made retroactive so Edward
Snowden can come home to live in his
own country. All he did was expose
that his government was not obeying
the Constitution. If this fake outrage
here is really towards whistleblowing,
why don’t we make it retroactive and
defend the most famous whistleblower
of all time? That is what my bill would
do.
While Snowden’s disclosures were in
defense of the Fourth Amendment, the
Sixth Amendment guarantees an indi-
vidual the right to face their accuser;
yet the House of Representatives has
been conducting a secret impeachment
inquiry based on secret claims made by
a secret whistleblower.
My bill would make clear that the
Sixth Amendment is not superseded by
statutes and that the President should
be afforded the same rights that we all
should, to understand the nature of the
allegations brought against them and
to face their accuser. This is in the
Sixth Amendment.
So for all the caterwauling about
whistleblower statutes, there is a high
law of the land. It is the Constitution.
It is the Bill of Rights. The Sixth
Amendment says if you are accused of
a crime, you get to face your accuser.
In fact, there was a resolution last
week placed by 50 members of the Re-
publican Caucus that condemns the
process going on in the House. It con-
demns it because it says specifically, in
the resolution signed by 50 Repub-
licans, that the President should get to
face his accusers, that he should have
counsel and call on witnesses and to
understand the basis of the charges
against him.
See, here is the thing: The whistle-
blower should be called because they
are making accusations against the
President. That is the Sixth Amend-
ment. We don’t do away with the Sixth
Amendment because we are talking
about impeachment or talking about
the President. But the whistleblower is
also a material witness. The whistle-
blower is a material witness because he
worked for Joe Biden. He worked for
Joe Biden when Joe Biden and Hunter
Biden were involved in corruption in
Ukraine.
This person worked on the Ukraine
desk. This person traveled to Ukraine.
This person was involved with aid. So
when Joe Biden says we are going to
deny aid to Ukraine unless you hire a
prosecutor that is looking into my
son’s company that is paying Hunter
Biden $50,000 a month, don’t you think
we have the right to call these people?
Don’t you think that Joe Biden should
appear? Don’t you think that Hunter
Biden should appear? Absolutely, the
whistleblower should appear because he
is an accuser, but also because he is a
material witness to the conflict of in-
terest scandal that involves Hunter
Biden and Joe Biden.
Fifty Republican Senators signed on
to a resolution that says the President
should get to face his accusers. My bill,
the Whistleblower Act of 2019, would
make that clear, that the Sixth
Amendment is not superseded by stat-
utes and that the President should be
afforded the right to understand the
nature of the allegations brought
against him and that the President
should get to face his accusers.
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Senator modify her request so that, in-
stead, the Senate proceed to the imme-
diate consideration of my bill, the
Whistleblower Act of 2019, S. 2798, in-
troduced earlier today; I further ask
that the bill be considered read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Does the Senator so modify her
request?
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, reserv-
ing my right to object.
My colleague’s bill was just dropped
literally on my lap just now. I cer-
tainly have not had a chance to read
through the bill, but the last paragraph
of this bill—which by the way I think
it is called the Whistleblower Protec-
tion Act—anyway, the last section of
his bill caught my eye, and I will read
it to you.
‘‘Section 5. Ensuring Sixth Amend-
ment protections. Congress reaffirms
that in the case of criminal pro-
ceedings, prosecutions, and impeach-
ment arising from the disclosures of
whistleblowers, that the accused has a
right to confront his or her accuser in
such proceedings and that right is not
superseded by the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act.’’
So suddenly the Sixth Amendment
right for a defendant to confront the
accuser is being applied to the im-
peachment proceeding. It has never
been done before. By doing this, the
Senator from Kentucky, in my view, is
truly undermining the Whistleblower
Protection Act. So to call his bill the
Whistleblower Protection Act of 2019
is, in my view, laughable.
By the way, in this particular in-
stance we don’t need the whistle-
blower’s testimony. The whistle-
blower’s complaint, the substance of
her complaint, has been corroborated
numerous times. So all this is to send
the message out there that all you peo-
ple who work for the Federal Govern-
ment, if you see some kind of wrong-
doing misdeed going on, don’t come
forward because expect retribution, ex-
pect the President to come after you,
expect the President’s minions to come
after you.
What is the point of having a whistle-
blower statute which—you know,
which is a duty, it imposes a duty on
Federal employees to come forward—
and at the same time as we impose this
duty, we have the good Senator’s reso-
lution saying: Yes, come forward, but
we are going to out you, subject you to
threats, intimidation, retaliation.
This whistleblower’s own attorney
has said that her safety is in question,
so using the Sixth Amendment and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.033 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6430 November 6, 2019
sort of tie it to impeachment pro-
ceedings is—I am just flabbergasted.
Mr. President, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard. Is there objection to
the original request?
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, reserving
the right to object.
I am disappointed that any Senator
would come to the floor and find the
Bill of Rights laughable. The Sixth
Amendment is an important part of
our Constitution, and the right to face
your accuser is incredibly important.
It is disappointing that an actual U.S.
Senator would come to the floor and
say that it was laughable to apply the
Bill of Rights to the President. I am
disappointed that it has come to this.
I will hope that Americans would
look at this and say, absolutely, the
President deserves the same protec-
tions that the rest of us deserve.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. I think the Senator
from Kentucky should listen because I
certainly did not find the Sixth
Amendment laughable. I found his res-
olution, calling it the Whistleblower
Protection Act, which in fact under-
mines whistleblower protections, ap-
palling and laughable.
With that, I, once again, object to his
request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TESTIMONY OF LIEUTENANT COLONEL
ALEXANDER VINDMAN
Mr. CASEY. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
First, I want to briefly recognize this
afternoon the brave public servants
who have testified in the House in re-
cent weeks in defense of national secu-
rity, the rule of law, and our demo-
cratic institutions—most recently,
LTC Alexander Vindman.
Despite Lieutenant Colonel
Vindman’s two decades of military
service and a Purple Heart for his sac-
rifice to our country in Iraq, his char-
acter has faced brutal attacks from
cable news and from some current and
former Members of Congress. These
comments about him are reprehensible
attacks with no basis in fact.
Verbal abuse of Lieutenant Colonel
Vindman not only disrespects his in-
tegrity and his service but undermines
our institutions and ultimately makes
our Nation less safe—less safe. So ques-
tioning the character, loyalty, or patri-
otism of Lieutenant Colonel Vindman
is an attack on all veterans and is also
an attack on our military.
Former U.S. Ambassador to Russia
Michael McFaul put it this way in a
Washington Post column just last
week, and I will quote part of the col-
umn:
Such smear tactics are revolting and un-
American. Vindman has served our country
with honor and distinction, both on and off
the battlefield. . . . And he is a patriot—as
you would expect from someone with his out-
standing resume. . . . The idea that Vindman
might have dual loyalties with another na-
tion is preposterous. Vindman was born in
the totalitarian Soviet Union, not ‘‘the
Ukraine.’’ His family, which is Jewish, fled
religious persecution. He is not Soviet or
Ukrainian or Ukrainian American: He is sim-
ply an American. Using birthplaces or hy-
phenated adjectives to disparage fellow
Americans is always wrong. It is especially
so in the case of Lt. Col. Vindman.
That is the op-ed from a distin-
guished Ambassador.
When I reflect upon Lieutenant Colo-
nel Vindman’s service to our country
and his integrity, I am reminded of one
of the lines—we could use many—from
‘‘America the Beautiful’’:
Oh, beautiful for patriot dream
That sees beyond the years
That is what he was doing when he testi-
fied, just like that was what he was doing
when he was serving our Nation in Iraq and
when he was wounded in Iraq, and what he
has done as a member of our national secu-
rity team as part of the work he has done in
this administration—seeing beyond the
years. Part of the dream of a patriot is
thinking about the impact of your actions on
future generations.
We need to make sure that we are
very clear about where we stand on his
character, on his commitment to the
country, and on his courage in coming
forward.
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. President, I want to move to the
grave question of Syria and what has
happened over just the last couple of
weeks. I know this is a position held by
Senators in both parties, but I oppose
President Trump’s recent decision to
withdraw U.S. Armed Forces from
Syria.
Following a phone call with Turkish
President Erdogan on October 6, Presi-
dent Trump announced that the United
States would be withdrawing U.S.
troops from northern Syria. This
cleared the way for the Turkish Armed
Forces to proceed with an operation—
an effort to target Kurdish and Islamic
State, or ISIS, fighters in northern
Syria. The President’s decision is al-
ready impacting U.S. national secu-
rity, as many analysts have predicted.
We have abandoned our Kurdish al-
lies, who have been instrumental in not
only retaking territory from ISIS but
also in detaining ISIS combatants. We
learned last week that they made the
most important contribution of critical
intelligence, helping U.S. forces locate
and eliminate ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-
Baghdadi.
That leads me to the role that Russia
plays, especially in the aftermath of
the decision the President made about
our troops in northern Syria. Fol-
lowing an initial U.S.-brokered
ceasefire, Turkish and Russian authori-
ties have agreed to a more permanent
status, sharing control of Syria’s
northern border. Turkish and Russian
forces are not only occupying Kurdish-
held areas but also further expanding
Russia’s role in Syria and committing
war crimes against Kurdish civilians,
according to the United Nations.
Russia has already occupied U.S.
military camps in the region, and
Turkish President Erdogan’s deepening
relationship with Vladimir Putin, as
evidenced by Turkey’s S–400 missile
system, only undercuts U.S. influence
in Syria, all but guaranteeing that U.S.
interests will not be represented in a
future Syrian political settlement.
President Trump’s decision serves to
benefit Vladimir Putin. Prior to the
withdrawal, the United States was
Russia’s only military equal in Syria,
but Russia is now the primary—and,
according to some analysts, the sole—
power broker in Syria.
In the vacuum left by the United
States, Putin will be able to return
control of the country to Bashar al-
Assad. Also, he will be able to exercise
increased control over Turkey, a NATO
ally, and also return to its Cold War-
era dominance—the Russians, that is—
in the Middle East.
I am holding an article, which, from
a distance, you can’t see the headline.
It is from the Washington Post, dated
October 16 of this year. It says that in
Ukraine and Syria, Trump’s moves are
helping Putin. It was written by Anne
Gearan. Anne Gearan is a respected re-
porter on national security issues and
foreign policy. This article—and I will
not go through all of it—catalogs how
the Trump administration has allowed
Russia to assert dominance globally. I
mentioned the headline, but here is
some of the text of the article. The
first few paragraphs of the article by
Anne Gearan say as follows:
Whether by chance or by design, the for-
eign policy crises involving Syria and
Ukraine that have enveloped the White
House have a common element. In each case,
President Trump has taken action that has
had the effect of helping the authoritarian
leader of Russia.
Russian forces are now operating between
the Turkish and Syrian militaries, helping
to fulfill Moscow’s main aim of shoring up
its alliance with Syria and the Russian mili-
tary port housed there—an outcome Russian
President Vladimir Putin has sought for
years.
Trump’s actions in Syria and Ukraine add
to the list of policy moves and public state-
ments that have boosted Russia during his
presidency, whether that was their central
purpose or not, confounding critics who have
warned that he has taken—
She is referring to our President
here—
too soft a stance toward a nation led by a
strongman hostile to the United States.
Anne Gearan goes on to describe the
long list of President Trump’s actions
that demonstrate the strange deference
to Russia, which has ultimately com-
promised the furtherance of U.S. na-
tional security interests in Syria and
beyond.
I also want to make reference to an-
other recent news article. The headline
at the top of this New York Times arti-
cle, dated Sunday, October 13 of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.034 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6431
November 6, 2019
year, reads: ‘‘12 Hours. 4 Syrian Hos-
pitals Bombed.’’ It reads: ‘‘12 Hours. 4
Syrian Hospitals Bombed.’’
The next page, which is full of more
detail and an illustration, gives you
their conclusion: ‘‘Evidence Reveals
One Culprit: Russia.’’ In pertinent part,
here is what this article says: ‘‘The
Russian Air Force has repeatedly
bombed hospitals in Syria in order to
crush the last pockets of resistance to
President Bashar al-Assad.’’
The New York Times published evi-
dence that the Russians bombed four
Syrian hospitals in a 12-hour period in
May of this year. During the assault,
the Kafr Nabl Surgical Hospital in Idlib
Province was struck four times in 30
minutes. This is a hospital. Dozens of
hospitals and clinics in Idlib have been
struck since, and Syrian medical work-
ers live in constant fear of the next
strike.
I don’t think I even have to say what
I am about to say, but it bears repeat-
ing for the record. Such atrocities go
beyond the pale of violating the Gene-
va Conventions and the laws of war.
They demonstrate just how ruthless
and brutal Putin and his regime have
been and the lengths to which they will
go to assert Russia’s influence in the
Middle East.
Under this administration, we have
seen U.S. leadership erode and multi-
lateral institutions deteriorate to the
point where the United Nations is pow-
erless in holding Russia accountable
for these atrocities. As to holding Mr.
Putin accountable, this administration
has made us less safe.
Let me move to the Kurds. The Syr-
ian Democratic Forces, led by the
Kurdish YPG, have been steadfast U.S.
partners in counterterrorism oper-
ations, as well as in other ways in the
Middle East.
As the United States provided train-
ing, intelligence, and aerial support,
some 11,000 Kurdish fighters died in the
fight against ISIS—11,000 Kurdish
fighters. Without their courage, sac-
rifice, partnership, and protection, the
United States would have either lost
the fight against ISIS—and the coali-
tion would have lost—or won it at a
major cost to the lives of U.S. service-
members and their families.
The Trump administration has aban-
doned the Kurds. Since the President
radically departed from a longstanding
strategy in the fight against ISIS, we
have seen mass displacement. We have
also seen, of course, Russian incursion
and the initial signs of an ISIS resur-
gence in the region.
According to the United Nations,
160,000 people have been displaced, in-
cluding 70,000 children. Kurdish au-
thorities state that at least 785 persons
affiliated with ISIS have escaped.
I ask a couple of basic questions: How
exactly does allowing the conditions
for humanitarian catastrophe and the
escape of sworn enemies of the United
States make America safe? How does
unilaterally making decisions without
consulting U.S. national security lead-
ers and experts, or also our allies who
have joined us in the global coalition
to fight ISIS, build credibility for U.S.
leadership around the world? How do
we expect to protect the interests of
our ally Israel from threats along the
Syrian border? And, finally, how do we
justify such a rapid departure in U.S.
policy to promote and protect democ-
racy in the Middle East?
DEATH OF ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI
Mr. President, let me move to the al-
Baghdadi killing.
We know that on October 27, just
weeks after the U.S. withdrawal, the
President announced that U.S. Special
Forces, those brave fighters who are
the best in the world, with support
from the U.S. intelligence forces, con-
ducted a raid and confirmed the death
of ISIS leader al-Baghdadi.
The President’s failure to credit our
Kurdish allies, who provided critical
intelligence that led to a successful
U.S. operation, is further evidence of
his total abandonment of the Kurds
and the lack of appreciation for the
critical role the Kurds have played in
promoting U.S. interests in Syria.
Let us also not forget that the Presi-
dent credited Russia’s cooperation in
opening Russian-controlled airspace to
U.S. aircraft conducting the raid. He
credited them before—before—he cred-
ited the U.S. Special Forces who laid
down their lives for the mission. I
think he could have at least, at a min-
imum, switched the order there, and he
should also have credited the Kurds, as
I have stated.
While al-Baghdadi’s death is cer-
tainly a major victory for our counter-
terrorism efforts, the fight against
ISIS is far from over. I am deeply trou-
bled—and I know a lot of Members of
the Senate in both parties are deeply
troubled—by the President’s and,
frankly, some of my colleagues’ asser-
tions that our withdrawal from Syria
was justified.
The U.S. Defense Department esti-
mates that 10,000 to 15,000 ISIS fighters
are working to reconstitute themselves
as a major terrorist threat after U.S.
withdrawal from Syria.
Let us be clear. Killing al-Baghdadi
is not the end of ISIS and certainly not
the end of the U.S. commitment to
eliminating ISIS.
The decision-making process leading
up to U.S. withdrawal carried the hall-
marks of chaos and recklessness that
are so indicative of how this adminis-
tration operates when it comes to
these issues. Two weeks ago, the U.S.
Special Envoy to the Global Coalition
to Defeat ISIS, Jim Jeffrey, testified
that he was neither consulted nor made
aware of the President’s intent to
green-light Turkey’s planned offensive
but was, rather, briefed afterward.
Special Envoy Jeffrey has decades of
experience in the region, and the lack
of consultation ahead of this major for-
eign policy decision shows the lack of
deference this administration gives to
seasoned career national security offi-
cials. Weeks after the withdrawal, Sec-
retary of Defense Esper; Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley; Spe-
cial Envoy Jeffrey; the CENTCOM
commander, General McKenzie; and the
intel community briefed the Senate re-
garding the events of the last several
weeks. It is unacceptable that it took
over 3 weeks for Congress to receive a
briefing on such a critical change in
U.S. foreign policy.
I will speak for myself, but I left that
briefing with genuine concern. There is
still, in my judgment, no definitive
consensus strategy—weeks after with-
drawal—to prevent the resurgence of
ISIS and ensure the promotion of U.S.
national security interests in the re-
gion.
This is why Congress must reclaim
its authority to conduct oversight over
this administration’s unilateral policy-
making, which only makes America
less safe. The administration’s failure
to consult with Congress on its plans in
Syria, its support for Saudi Arabia’s
campaign in Yemen, and its incendiary
actions toward Iran over the last year
alone—all of that raises the need for
Congress to debate and to vote on an
updated authorization for the use of
military force, and I will say author-
izations, plural. We likely need more
than one.
If the President is truly serious
about ending U.S. involvement in ‘‘end-
less wars,’’ he should work with the
Congress to repeal the 2001 AUMF,
which is out of date, and pass an up-
dated authorization that addresses the
threats we face today. We must not
only ensure that Congress asserts its
constitutionally enabled warmaking
authority but also that we thoroughly
consider the consequences before send-
ing brave men and women into harm’s
way.
The President’s plan to secure oil-
fields in northeastern Syria is mis-
guided and obtuse. Experts agree that
many of these oilfields are already
under Kurdish control, and the Kurds
have not asked for U.S. support in pro-
tecting them. Leaving behind a
‘‘small’’ U.S. force would likely be an
ineffective and insufficient gesture
after our radical betrayal of Kurdish
allies.
This administration must formulate
a coherent strategy for a path forward
in Syria that goes beyond oilfields and
encompasses civilian protection, hu-
manitarian support, and the prevention
of the resurgence of ISIS.
Looking ahead, the U.S. goals must
focus on three elements: No. 1, pre-
venting the resurgence of ISIS in Iraq
and Syria; No. 2, holding Turkey ac-
countable for its war crimes and
human rights violations against the
Kurds; and No. 3, accomplishing both
by keeping the 64-nation Global Coali-
tion to Defeat ISIS intact.
Our allies are the keys to any hope of
success here. However, working with
allies and coalition partners is exceed-
ingly more difficult due to the Presi-
dent’s reckless actions of late and his
constant denigration of U.S. allies.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.036 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6432 November 6, 2019
Ambassador Jeffrey and former Spe-
cial Envoy Brett McGurk’s efforts to
build and maintain the Global Coali-
tion to Defeat ISIS are the primary
reason we were able to convene allies,
build and leverage relationships on the
ground, and mobilize resources to re-
claim territory from ISIS through Iraq
and Syria.
Finally, I reiterate my call on the
majority leader to allow for a debate
and a vote on an updated authorization
for the use of military force—and I
would say that again, plural—for Iraq
and also for Afghanistan. I also call
upon the administration to present a
clear path forward for U.S. engagement
with Syria and Iran.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD an
article from the New York Times Inter-
national, dated October 13, 2019.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the New York Times, Oct. 13, 2019]
12 HOURS. 4 SYRIAN HOSPITALS BOMBED. ONE
CULPRIT: RUSSIA.
(By Evan Hill and Christiaan Triebert)
The Russian Air Force has repeatedly
bombed hospitals in Syria in order to crush
the last pockets of resistance to President
Bashar al-Assad, according to an investiga-
tion by The New York Times.
An analysis of previously unpublished Rus-
sian Air Force radio recordings, plane spot-
ter logs and witness accounts allowed The
Times to trace bombings of four hospitals in
just 12 hours in May and tie Russian pilots to
each one.
The 12-hour period beginning on May 5 rep-
resents a small slice of the air war in Syria,
but it is a microcosm of Russia’s four-year
military intervention in Syria’s civil war. A
new front in the conflict opened this week,
when Turkish forces crossed the border as
part of a campaign against a Kurdish-led mi-
litia.
Russia has long been accused of carrying
out systematic attacks against hospitals and
clinics in rebel-held areas as part of a strat-
egy to help Mr. Assad secure victory in the
eight-year-old war.
Physicians for Human Rights, an advocacy
group that tracks attacks on medical work-
ers in Syria, has documented at least 583
such attacks since 2011, 266 of them since
Russia intervened in September 2015. At
least 916 medical workers have been killed
since 2011.
The Times assembled a large body of evi-
dence to analyze the hospital bombings on
May 5 and 6.
Social media posts from Syria, interviews
with witnesses, and records from charities
that supported the four hospitals provided
the approximate time of each strike. The
Times obtained logs kept by flight spotters
on the ground who warn civilians about in-
coming airstrikes and crosschecked the time
of each strike to confirm that Russian war-
planes were overhead. We then listened to
and deciphered thousands of Russian Air
Force radio transmissions, which recorded
months’ worth of pilot activities in the skies
above northwestern Syria. The recordings
were provided to The Times by a network of
observers who insisted on anonymity for
their safety.
The spotter logs from May 5 and 6 put Rus-
sian pilots above each hospital at the time
they were struck, and the Air Force audio
recordings from that day feature Russian pi-
lots confirming each bombing. Videos ob-
tained from witnesses and verified by The
Times confirmed three of the strikes.
Recklessly or intentionally bombing hos-
pitals is a war crime, but proving culpability
amid a complex civil war is extremely dif-
ficult, and until now, Syrian medical work-
ers and human rights groups lacked proof.
Russia’s position as a permanent member
of the United Nations Security Council has
shielded it from scrutiny and made United
Nations agencies reluctant to accuse the
Russian Air Force of responsibility.
‘‘The attacks on health in Syria, as well as
the indiscriminate bombing of civilian facili-
ties, are definitely war crimes, and they
should be prosecuted at the level of the
International Criminal Court in The Hague,’’
said Susannah Sirkin, director of policy at
Physicians for Human Rights. But Russia
and China ‘‘shamefully’’ vetoed a Security
Council resolution that would have referred
those and other crimes in Syria to the court,
she said.
The Russian government did not directly
respond to questions about the four hospital
bombings. Instead, a Foreign Ministry
spokesman pointed to past statements say-
ing that the Russian Air Force carries out
precision strikes only on ‘‘accurately re-
searched targets.’’
The United Nations secretary general,
António Guterres, opened an investigation
into the hospital bombings in August. The
investigation, still going on, is meant in part
to determine why hospitals that voluntarily
added their locations to a United Nations-
sponsored deconfliction list, which was pro-
vided to Russia and other combatants to pre-
vent them from being attacked, nevertheless
came under attack.
Syrian health care workers said they be-
lieved that the United Nations list actually
became a target menu for the Russian and
Syrian air forces.
Stéphane Dujarric, a spokesman for the
secretary general, said in September that
the investigation—an internal board of in-
quiry—would not produce a public report or
identify ‘‘legal responsibility.’’ Vassily
Nebenzia, the Russian permanent representa-
tive to the United Nations, cast doubt on the
process shortly after it was announced, say-
ing he hoped the inquiry would not inves-
tigate perpetrators but rather what he said
was the United Nations’ use of false informa-
tion in its deconfliction process.
From April 29 to mid-September, as Rus-
sian and Syrian government forces assaulted
the last rebel pocket in the northwest, 54
hospitals and clinics in opposition territory
were attacked, the United Nations human
rights office said. At least seven had tried to
protect themselves by adding their location
to the deconfliction list, according to the
World Health Organization.
On May 5 and 6, Russia attacked four. All
were on the list.
The first was Nabad al Hayat Surgical Hos-
pital, a major underground trauma center in
southern Idlib Province serving about 200,000
people. The hospital performed on average
around 500 operations and saw more than
5,000 patients a month, according to Syria
Relief and Development, the United States-
based charity that supported it.
Nabad al Hayat had been attacked three
times since it opened in 2013 and had re-
cently relocated to an underground complex
on agricultural land, hoping to be protected
from airstrikes.
At 2:32 p.m. on May 5, a Russian ground
control officer can be heard in an Air Force
transmission providing a pilot with a lon-
gitude and latitude that correspond to Nabad
al Hayat’s exact location.
At 2:38 p.m., the pilot reports that he can
see the target and has the ‘‘correction,’’ code
for locking the target on a screen in his
cockpit. Ground control responds with the
green light for the strike, saying, ‘‘Three
sevens.’’
At the same moment, a flight spotter on
the ground logs a Russian jet circling in the
area.
At 2:40 p.m., the same time the charity
said that Nabad al Hayat was struck, the
pilot confirms the release of his weapons,
saying, ‘‘Worked it.’’ Seconds later, local
journalists filming the hospital in anticipa-
tion of an attack record three precision
bombs penetrating the roof of the hospital
and blowing it out from the inside in geysers
of dirt and concrete.
The staff of Nabad al Hayat had evacuated
three days earlier after receiving warnings
and anticipating a bombing, but Kafr Nabl
Surgical Hospital, three miles northwest,
was not as lucky.
A doctor who worked there said that the
hospital was struck four times, beginning at
5:30 p.m. The strikes landed about five min-
utes apart, without warning, he said, killing
a man who was standing outside and forcing
patients and members of the medical staff to
use oxygen tanks to breathe through the
choking dust.
A spotter logged a Russian jet circling
above at the time of the strike, and in an-
other Russian Air Force transmission, a
pilot reports that he has ‘‘worked’’ his target
at 5:30 p.m., the time of the strike. He then
reports three more strikes, each about five
minutes apart, matching the doctor’s chro-
nology.
Russian pilots bombed two other hospitals
in the same 12-hour span: Kafr Zita Cave
Hospital and Al Amal Orthopedic Hospital.
In both cases, spotters recorded Russian Air
Force jets in the skies at the time of the
strike, and Russian pilots can be heard in
radio transmissions ‘‘working’’ their targets
at the times the strikes were reported.
Since May 5, at least two dozen hospitals
and clinics in the rebel-held northwest have
been hit by airstrikes. Syrian medical work-
ers said they expected hospital bombings to
continue, given the inability of the United
Nations and other countries to find a way to
hold Russia to account.
‘‘The argument by the Russians or the re-
gime is always that hospitals are run by ter-
rorists,’’ said Nabad al Hayat’s head nurse,
who asked to remain anonymous because he
feared being targeted. ‘‘Is it really possible
that all the people are terrorists?’’
‘‘The truth is that after hospitals are hit,
and in areas like this where there is just one
hospital, our houses have become hospitals.’’
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I am
going to turn to another matter of im-
portance for U.S. national security,
and that is climate change. Climate
change is the most significant chal-
lenge our world faces right now, tran-
scending borders and affecting every
aspect of our lives.
Climate change is a threat to human
life. It is caused by human activity,
and we must confront it. Our Nation
has a moral imperative to protect the
Earth, God’s creation, and the people
living on that Earth, particularly chil-
dren whose health and well-being will
be affected—I would say adversely af-
fected—by climate change in incompre-
hensible ways.
For far too long we have discussed
climate change, food insecurity, and
political stability in separate silos.
However, these issues are inextricably
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.037 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6433
November 6, 2019
linked, and we must apply an inte-
grated approach to ensuring that glob-
al food supply keeps pace with popu-
lation growth amidst a continuing
trend of climate change in a way that
promotes stable, transparent demo-
cratic societies around the world.
The late Senator Dick Lugar from
the State of Indiana asked me to work
with him to introduce the Global Food
Security Act way back in the 2007–2008
time period. At that time, Senator
Lugar wanted to try to pass legislation
that would authorize USAID’s Feed the
Future Program. Senator JOHNNY ISAK-
SON was a steadfast partner in actually
passing the Global Food Security Act.
We passed that legislation years after
Senator Lugar and I were starting the
work.
The Global Food Security Act is em-
powering the USAID to develop a more
integrated, interagency approach to
food security across agricultural value
chains and expanding farmers’ access
to local and international markets
through the Feed the Future Program.
We, as a body, must continue to ad-
vocate for the next generation of agri-
cultural policy: Promote sustainable
agriculture that will be able to keep
pace with growing global demand, pop-
ulation growth, and climate change.
As a member of the Senate Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry, I am increasingly concerned
about our ability to keep pace with ag-
ricultural production as global popu-
lation grows. The global population is
expected to grow from 7.7 billion to 10
billion by 2050, and with that, demand
for meat and dairy could increase be-
tween 59 and 98 percent, according to
Columbia University’s Earth Institute.
The impact of climate change on food
systems across the globe will be almost
incomprehensible, but perhaps nowhere
larger than Sub-Saharan Africa. Now,
90 percent of the region’s cropland,
meaning Sub-Saharan Africa—90 per-
cent of that region’s cropland is ex-
pected to see yield losses of up to 40
percent—90 percent seeing yield losses
of up to 40 percent.
We face some of the same challenges
here at home, and we are working to
help farmers adapt to these pressures
while also being part of the solution
through climate-friendly agricultural
policies.
While we have made advances in re-
cent decades, we still have high rates
of undernourishment and child stunt-
ing around the world. The number of
chronically hungry people around the
world has increased today to 821 mil-
lion people, representing one out of
every nine people on the planet, many
of whom are women and children. I will
say that again. The number of chron-
ically hungry people around the world
has increased to one in every nine peo-
ple on the planet.
The number of children under 5 af-
fected by stunting has decreased by 10
percent in the past 6 years. That is a
little bit of good news, but 149 million
children are still stunted. This pace is
too slow to meet our United Nations
Sustainable Development Goal to cut
stunting in half by 2030—just 11 years
away.
Our own intelligence community has
linked global food insecurity to insta-
bility, which can lead to a rise in vio-
lent extremism and international
crime that will affect the United
States. In January 2014, the worldwide
threat assessment of the U.S. intel-
ligence community reported that ‘‘lack
of adequate food will be a destabilizing
factor in countries important to [U.S.]
national security.’’
The ‘‘2010 Quadrennial Defense Re-
view’’ marked a turning point in how
the United States grappled with the
issue of climate change. For the first
time, in 2010, climate change was cited
as a ‘‘threat multiplier’’ by the Depart-
ment of Defense, noting ‘‘the impacts
of climate change may increase the fre-
quency, scale, and complexity of future
missions.’’
From Syria to Nigeria and the Lake
Chad Basin, but also in urban upheaval
in Sudan, we see the impacts of envi-
ronmental stress and high food prices
on political stability in regions vital to
U.S. national security interests.
This brings me to political stability.
According to the U.S. Global Food Se-
curity Strategy, food insecurity exac-
erbated by climate change will con-
tribute to ‘‘social disruptions and po-
litical instability. . . . Projections in-
dicate that more than two-thirds of the
world’s poor could be living in fragile
countries, where state-society rela-
tions are already strained, by 2030.’’
When societies break down because
governments are unable to provide re-
silient infrastructure against climate
events, as well as protect local markets
from vulnerabilities due to climate
events, trust in institutions erodes and
nations are ripe for conflict. If we per-
mit climate change to proceed without
aggressive action, investment, and co-
ordination with partners around the
world, we are not only allowing mil-
lions around the world to suffer ex-
treme hunger resulting from climate-
related disasters, but we are also allow-
ing conditions for the rise of extre-
mism and the breakdown of democratic
institutions to foment unchecked.
For millions of people across Africa,
Asia, and Latin America, climate
change means more frequent and in-
tense floods, droughts, and storms, ac-
counting each year for up to 90 percent
of all natural disasters. These disasters
can quickly spiral into full-blown food
and nutrition crises.
I will wrap up with this: As we look
to the hard work of congressional over-
sight over the Feed the Future Pro-
gram, I am pleased that USAID has al-
ready begun to bridge its emergency
humanitarian programming with its
longer term development efforts to
build resilience for communities af-
fected by conflict and climate change.
The United States cannot do this
alone. We need to work together on a
global scale not only to reduce green-
house gas emissions but also to miti-
gate economic risk and ensure that ag-
ricultural and food supply chains can
withstand climate events. This admin-
istration’s decision to withdraw from
the Paris climate agreement was a
huge blow to U.S. leadership in climate
policy. I and many Members of Con-
gress and individuals throughout the
U.S. Government, along with our State
and local government partners, as well
as leaders in the business community
across the United States, will continue
to fight for policies that bring the
United States in line with its Paris
goals, ensuring we are doing our part
to address this global threat to human
life.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
JUDICIAL CONFIRMATIONS
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to talk about the
work we have been doing in the Senate
this week and the work we have been
doing in the Senate the last 3 years,
and that is the work of confirming a
record number of judicial nominees.
I want to specifically focus on our
record on circuit court judges. As you
know, these are the courts just one
layer below the Supreme Court, and
their decisions have enormous con-
sequences for the country. We have
confirmed 45 highly qualified circuit
court judges. We have done it across all
12 appeals courts nationwide. These
judges will decide 99 percent of the
Federal cases in America.
President Trump has nominated each
of these judges. Senate Republicans
confirmed each of these judges. These
judges now hold a full one-quarter—one
out of every four—circuit court seats
in America. All of these judges have
lifetime appointments. These circuit
court judges are ruling right now, and
they are doing it on major cases all
across the country.
How are they making a difference in
people’s lives? No. 1, by protecting
Americans’ constitutional rights, by
upholding our individual freedoms, by
putting a check on government power,
and above all, these judges are apply-
ing the law as written, not legislating
from the bench.
Based on the 45 circuit court judges
we have seated and the judges we will
continue to seat, Senate Republicans
have delivered conservative judges who
will serve our Nation for decades to
come.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.038 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6434 November 6, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VETERANS DAY
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I am
wearing a pin on my right lapel that
was presented to me by some folks
today who appreciate veterans, and I
appreciate being recognized.
I am a veteran of the U.S. Air Force
and Air Force Reserve. I retired from
that organization, and I appreciate
their coming to put an extra pin on me
today.
We will celebrate Veterans Day on
November 11, and I will be making
speeches. Hopefully, many of us will be
properly recognizing those of us who
have worn the uniform and taken the
oath and are serving in that respect.
Today I want to talk about another
group of folks, and those are the future
veterans. By that, of course, I mean
the soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines,
and servicemembers who are serving
their country now on Active Duty. I
make a plea to my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle, at both ends of this
building, to get our work done at least
for national security.
We are at a time of heightened poli-
tics. There are tensions in this building
as there often have been, but at this
critical juncture, with so much at
stake around the world, it seems to me
we ought to be able to pass the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act, of
which the distinguished chairman,
Chairman INHOFE, and his ranking
member, Senator REED from Rhode Is-
land, have prepared and are ready to go
on. It seems we ought to be able to
come to an agreement with the other
body and get that to the President for
his signature.
We are now 5 weeks into the current
fiscal year, and we don’t have an appro-
priations bill done for the Department
of Defense. We have to have the au-
thorization act, which I mentioned, but
at the beginning of October, we are
supposed to have the government fund-
ed, and we don’t.
We are under a continuing resolu-
tion, a CR, and it sounds so harmless,
like we are just continuing the funding
until we get all the numbers right.
That is not true. Every defense expert
in the government—formally in the
government and outside of the govern-
ment—will tell you that a continuing
resolution is harmful to our Nation’s
defense. It not only sends the wrong
signal, it has us sending money in the
wrong direction and has us not spend-
ing money where we need to spend it.
At the end of this month, when the
current CR ends, we need to be ready
with a permanent appropriations bill
for the Department of Defense for this
current fiscal year. Just think of what
we are looking at right now. Iran is the
largest State sponsor of terror, and it
is on the warpath. Iran knocked out
the world’s largest oil facility in Saudi
Arabia just a couple of months ago and
is attacking tankers in the gulf. This is
no time to not have a permanent ap-
propriations bill for this fiscal year.
Vladimir Putin’s Russia is in a shoot-
ing war against our partners in
Ukraine. The Communist Government
of China is brutalizing its own people
on the streets of Hong Kong violating
the ‘‘one nation, two systems’’ policy.
That is not the half of it. The Chi-
nese dictator, Xi Jinping, is not keep-
ing his repressive ambitions at home as
we know from what is going on in the
Pacific. As my friend, the chairman of
the full Armed Services Committee,
pointed out, the People’s Republic of
China has increased military spending
by 83 percent. China has increased mili-
tary spending by 83 percent over the
last decade at a time when we can’t
even agree on the funding for the cur-
rent fiscal year we are in. That sends a
signal around the world. You best be-
lieve Xi Jinping knows we can’t get our
act together through a funding bill.
Now my hat is off to the leaders, both
Republican and Democratic, in this
body who have done their job and are
ready to go forward with the funding
bill, but we need to join hands and ac-
tually get it done. For some reason, we
have not been able to do that. I am
begging my colleagues, let’s fund our
military, and let’s fund these future
veterans who are serving on Active
Duty right now. The current con-
tinuing resolution is doing real damage
to our national security. It is harming
the progress we have already made to
rebuild our military since the seques-
ter—and wasn’t that a disaster. It is
harming our military men and women
and making it harder for them to do
their jobs going forward.
I want to quote General Mattis,
former Secretary Mattis, who said this,
as Secretary, about continuing resolu-
tions:
It’s not like we even maintain the status
quo if we go into one of these situations yet
again. We actually lose ground.
I urge my fellow colleagues in the
Senate and in the other body to heed
the words of this great military leader.
We are losing ground today, November
6, 2019, because we are under a CR. We
have seen it before, and unfortunately
we are losing money and losing readi-
ness right now. Extending the CR any
further will harm military personnel in
every branch. The Air Force is short
2,100 pilots. Keeping the CR going
would cut $123 million from under-
graduate pilot training.
Under a continuation of the CR fur-
ther than the end of this month, naval
training will be scaled back dramati-
cally. We will not be able to fix dan-
gerous housing that we have had hear-
ings about and there has been a scandal
about in the press. We will not be able
to attend to that because we are work-
ing under a continuation of last year’s
old-fashioned numbers. Vital research
and development programs will go
unbegun. Not only that, keeping a CR
going not only doesn’t save money, it
actually costs us money because we are
spending dollars on programs we have
decided not to be involved in anymore.
We want to move in a different direc-
tion. The House and Senate leaders
have decided to do that, the Members
of the Pentagon have decided to do
that, but under the CR we are forced to
keep spending money on programs we
don’t need anymore.
According to General Martin, Vice
Chief of Staff of the Army, delays and
misallocated funds cost $7 billion every
month, and that is just for the Army.
We have an opportunity to correct
this, or we have an opportunity to
waste another $20 billion on a yearlong
CR. I am urging the American public to
make it known to those of us at Vet-
erans Day programs this weekend and
next week. I am urging my colleagues
to stress this when they talk to the
public.
There are appropriations bills that
are not yet worked out, but for heav-
en’s sake, let’s at least do the bill that
pays the troops and sends a signal to
the rest of the world in these trying
times that we are at least going to
fund our Defense Department and our
future veterans who are on Active
Duty and who have taken the oath
today and that we will do them in a
modern and timely fashion. We are 5
weeks late. Let’s not make it another 5
weeks after this and another 5 months
after that.
Pass a full-funding appropriations
bill for our troops, for the Department
of Defense, and give them the type of
representation and government that
they deserve based upon their worthy
service.
I yield the floor.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to the consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination, which the clerk
will report.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Hunsaker nomination?
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY),
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON), and the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN), are necessarily absent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.040 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6435
November 6, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 73,
nays 17, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 348 Ex.]
YEAS—73
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Capito
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—17
Blumenthal
Cantwell
Cardin
Duckworth
Durbin
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Reed
Schatz
Schumer
Stabenow
Udall
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Cassidy
Harris
Isakson
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of William Joseph Nardini, of Con-
necticut, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Second Circuit.
John Thune, Thom Tillis, Chuck Grass-
ley, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, Mike Rounds, Lindsey
Graham, Mitch McConnell, John Booz-
man, Tom Cotton, John Cornyn, Joni
Ernst, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker,
Jerry Moran, Shelley Moore Capito.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of William Joseph Nardini, of Con-
necticut, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY),
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON), and the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 87,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 349 Ex.]
YEAS—87
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Gillibrand Hirono Markey
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Cassidy
Harris
Isakson
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 87, the nays are 3.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of William Joseph Nardini, of
Connecticut, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Second Circuit.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—EXECUTIVE
CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, with re-
spect to the Hunsaker nomination, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from New Hampshire.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1743
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to express my
concern and my disappointment over
the decision by the President to for-
mally withdraw the United States from
the Paris climate agreement.
Though the President announced this
decision over 2 years ago, this past
Monday marked the first day his ad-
ministration could send a letter to the
United Nations formalizing the year-
long withdrawal process. Of course, we
know that they did that.
American leadership on climate ac-
tion is being ceded to other countries
before our very eyes. With this move,
the President is betraying the trust of
the American people and betraying the
trust of our international allies in the
fight against climate change.
Climate change is a very real and
present threat to our environment, to
our national security, to our economy,
to our health, and to our very way of
life. That is why I introduced the Inter-
national Climate Accountability Act,
to prevent the President from using
funds to withdraw the United States
from the Paris climate agreement.
This bipartisan bill would also require
the administration to develop a stra-
tegic plan for meeting the commit-
ments we made in Paris in 2015.
We can see on this chart that the
House passed legislation over 6 months
ago. It has been 188 days since the
House passed their legislation, the Cli-
mate Action Now Act. Yet in the Sen-
ate the majority leadership has refused
to call up this bill for a vote.
The administration’s withdrawal
from the Paris climate agreement and
the general refusal to bring climate
change legislation to the floor is out of
step with the desires of the American
people.
Approximately two out of every
three Americans believe it is the job of
the Federal Government to combat cli-
mate change, according to a recent poll
from the Associated Press. The same
poll found that 64 percent of Americans
disapprove of the President’s climate
change policies.
Unfortunately, the Senate majority
leadership continues to refuse to act on
climate change. Yet what we hear from
our scientists and experts is that they
tell us that we need to act and act now
on climate change before it is too late.
This poll shows us, as others have, that
a supermajority of the American public
wants us to do just that.
I have come before this body a num-
ber of times in the past to highlight
the impact of climate change in my
home State of New Hampshire. We see
very directly the effects of climate
change. The farther north you go, the
more you see those impacts. Our fall
foliage season is shortened. Our maple
syrup production season is disrupted.
Our outdoor recreation industries are
hampered. Our ski and our
snowmobiling industries are hampered.
Our lobsters are moving north to cold-
er waters. Our moose population is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.004 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6436 November 6, 2019
down 40 percent, and Lyme disease is
on the rise.
But today what I really want to high-
light are the revelations that have
been made clear in recent weeks by our
national security experts. A report en-
titled ‘‘Implications of Climate Change
for the U.S. Army,’’ which was com-
missioned by the current Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, GEN Mark
Milley reads: ‘‘The Department of De-
fense is precariously unprepared for the
national security implications of cli-
mate change-induced global security
challenges.’’
The Pentagon’s ‘‘Report on Effects of
a Changing Climate to the Department
of Defense’’ reads, as we can see right
here: ‘‘The effects of a changing cli-
mate are a national security issue with
potential impacts to Department of De-
fense missions, operational plans, and
installations.’’
When former Secretary of Defense
James Mattis was before the Senate
Armed Services Committee for his con-
firmation hearing in 2017, his testi-
mony read, in part: ‘‘Climate change is
impacting stability in areas of the
world where our troops are operating
today.’’
I had the chance to ask him in that
hearing: ‘‘Do you believe climate
change is a security threat?’’
He responded this way: ‘‘Climate
change can be a driver of instability,
and the Department of Defense must
pay attention to potential adverse im-
pacts generated by this phenomenon.’’
He went on to say: ‘‘Climate change
is a challenge that requires a broader,
whole-of-government response.’’
I could go on detailing the calami-
tous conclusions of our national secu-
rity experts, but, instead, I ask unani-
mous consent that a letter addressed to
the President from nearly 60 national
security and military leaders be print-
ed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
AMERICAN SECURITY PROJECT,
THE CENTER FOR CLIMATE AND
SECURITY,
March 5, 2019.
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: We write to you as
former US national security leaders to offer
our support to our uniformed military, civil-
ian national security professionals, and
members of the scientific community, who
across the past four Administrations have
found that climate change is a threat to US
national security.
Climate change is real, it is happening
now, it is driven by humans, and it is accel-
erating. The overwhelming majority of sci-
entists agree: less than 0.2% of peer-reviewed
climate science papers dispute these facts. In
this context, we are deeply concerned by re-
ports that National Security Council offi-
cials are considering forming a committee to
dispute and undermine military and intel-
ligence judgments on the threat posed by cli-
mate change. This includes second-guessing
the scientific sources used to assess the
threat, such as the rigorously peer-reviewed
National Climate Assessment, and applying
that to national security policy. Imposing a
political test on reports issued by the science
agencies, and forcing a blind spot onto the
national security assessments that depend
on them, will erode our national security.
It is dangerous to have national security
analysis conform to politics. Our officials’
job is to ensure that we are prepared for cur-
rent threats and future contingencies. We
cannot do that if the scientific studies that
inform our threat assessments are under-
mined. Our national security community
will not remain the best in the world if it
cannot make decisions based on the best
available evidence.
When extreme weather hits the United
States, it degrades the fighting force. Just
last year, Hurricane Florence caused $3.6 bil-
lion in damages to Camp Lejeune, home of
the Marines’ expeditionary units on the East
Coast. You called Florence ‘‘One of the big-
gest to ever hit our country.’’ Stronger
storms and storm surges have long featured
in predictions about a changing climate.
Around the world, climate change is a
‘‘threat multiplier’’—making other security
threats worse. Its effects are even used by
our adversaries as a weapon of war; ISIS
used water shortages in Iraq, in part driven
by a changing climate, to cement their hold
on the population during their reign of ter-
ror from 2014 to 2017.
We support the science-driven patriots in
our national security community who have
rightly seen addressing climate change as a
threat reduction issue, not a political one,
since 1989. We support the bipartisan finding
of the US Congress, which you signed into
law on December 2017, stating that ‘‘climate
change is a direct threat to the national se-
curity of the United States.’’ We urge you to
trust and heed the analysis of your own na-
tional security agencies and the science
agencies on which their assessments depend,
including the 21 senior defense officials that
have identified climate change as a security
threat during your Administration. A com-
mittee designed to undermine the many
years of work they have done will weaken
our ability to respond to real threats, put-
ting American lives at risk.
Our climate will continue to change, and
the threats will continue to grow. We spent
our careers pledged to protect the United
States from all threats, including this one.
Let’s drop the politics, and allow our na-
tional security and science agencies to do
their jobs.
Sincerely,
Hon. John Kerry, Former Secretary of
State; Hon. Ray Mabus, Former Sec-
retary of the Navy; General Gordon R.
Sullivan, US Army (Ret), Former Chief
of Staff of the US Army; Admiral Sam-
uel J. Locklear III, USN (Ret), Former
Commander, US Pacific Command; Ad-
miral James Stavridis, USN (Ret),
Former Supreme Allied Commander
Europe; Nancy Soderberg, Former Dep-
uty Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs; Hon. Sharon
Burke, Former Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Operational Energy; Hon.
David Goldwyn, Former Assistant Sec-
retary of Energy and Special Envoy for
International Energy Affairs; Hon. Mi-
randa AA Ballentine, Former Assistant
Secretary of the Air Force (Installa-
tions, Environment, and Energy); Leon
Fuerth, Former National Security Ad-
viser to the Vice President.
Dr. Geoffrey Kemp, Former Special As-
sistant to the President for National
Security Affairs; General Paul Kern,
USA (Ret.), Former Commanding Gen-
eral, US Army Materiel Command;
Lieutenant General John Castellaw,
USMC (Ret), Former Chief of Staff, US
Central Command; Lieutenant General
Arlen D. Jameson, USAF (Ret), Former
Deputy Commander, US Strategic
Command; Lieutenant General Norm
Seip, USAF (Ret), Former Commander,
12th Air Force; Hon. Sherri Goodman,
Former Deputy Under Secretary of De-
fense (Environmental Security); Hon.
Chuck Hagel, Former Secretary of De-
fense; Vice Admiral Richard Truly,
USN (Ret), Former Administrator of
NASA; Admiral Paul Zukunft, USCG
(Ret), Former Commandant of the
Coast Guard; General Stanley
McChrystal, USA (Ret), Former Com-
mander, US and International Secu-
rity.
Lieutenant General Donald Kerrick, USA
(Ret), Former Deputy National Secu-
rity Advisor to the President of the
United States; Tom Hicks, Former Act-
ing Under Secretary of the Navy and
Deputy Under Secretary of the Navy
for Management; Hon. John Conger,
Former Principal Deputy Under Sec-
retary of Defense (Comptroller) and As-
sistant Secretary of Defense for En-
ergy, Installations and Environment;
Eric Rosenbach, Former Chief of Staff,
Department of Defense, and Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Global Secu-
rity; Vice Admiral Dennis McGinn,
USN (Ret), Former Assistant Secretary
of the Navy for Energy, Installations
and Environment; Hon. Alice Hill,
Former Special Assistant to the Presi-
dent and Senior Director for Resilience
Policy, National Security Council;
Major General Randy Manner, USA
(Ret), Former Acting Vice Chief, Na-
tional Guard Bureau; General Ron
Keys, USAF (Ret), Former Com-
mander, Air Combat Command; Vice
Admiral Philip Cullom, USN (Ret),
Former Deputy Chief of Naval Oper-
ations, Fleet Readiness and Logistics.
Lieutenant General Kenneth E.
Eickmann, USAF (Ret), Former Com-
mander, Aeronautical Systems Center,
Headquarters Air Force Materiel Com-
mand; Vice Admiral Robert C. Parker,
USCG (Ret), Commander, Coast Guard
Atlantic Area; Greg Treverton, Former
Chair, National Intelligence Council;
Major General Jerry Harrison, USA
(Ret), Former Chief, Office of Legisla-
tive Liaison, Army Staff; Rear Admiral
Leendert R. Hering USN (Ret), Former
Commander, Navy Region Southwest;
Major General Jeff Phillips, USA (Ret),
Executive Director, Reserve Officers
Association; Rear Admiral Michael
Smith, USN (Ret), Former Commander,
Carrier Strike Group 3; Rear Admiral
Jonathan White, USN (Ret), Former
Oceanographer & Navigator, US Navy;
Captain James C. Goudreau, SC, USN
(Ret), Former Acting Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Navy (Energy); Briga-
dier General Steven Anderson, USA
(Ret), Former Director, Operations and
Logistics Readiness, Headquarters, De-
partment of the Army.
Brigadier General Donald Bolduc, USA
(Ret), Former Commander, Special Op-
erations Command-Africa; Brigadier
General Robert Felderman, USA (Ret),
Former Deputy Director of Plans, Pol-
icy and Strategy, United States North-
ern Command and North American
Aerospace Defense Command; Briga-
dier General Carlos Martinez, USAF
(Ret), Former Mobilization Assistant,
Chief of Warfighting Integration and
Chief Information Officer, Office of the
Secretary of the Air Force; Joan
VanDervort, Former Deputy Director,
Ranges, Sea, and Airspace, Office of the
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Readiness); Commander David
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.045 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6437
November 6, 2019
Slayton, USN (Ret), Executive Direc-
tor, the Arctic Security Initiative The
Hoover Institution; Hon. Richard
Morningstar, Former Ambassador to
the European Union; Major General
Richard T. Devereaux, USAF (Ret),
Former Director, Operational Plan-
ning, Policy and Strategy, Head-
quarters US Air Force; Rear Admiral
Sinclair M. Harris, USN (Ret), Former
Commander, United States Fourth
Fleet; Rear Admiral Michael G.
Mathis, USN (Ret), Chief Engineer to
the Assistant Secretary of the Navy
(Research, Development and Acquisi-
tion); Rear Admiral Fernandez L.
Ponds, USN (Ret), Commander, Expedi-
tionary Strike Group (ESG) 3.
Rear Admiral Kevin Slates, USN (Ret),
Former Director of Energy and Envi-
ronmental Readiness Division, US
Navy; Rear Admiral David W. Titley,
USN (Ret), Former Oceanographer &
Navigator, US Navy; Joe Bryan,
Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of
the Navy (Energy); Brigadier General
John Adams, USA (Ret), Former Dep-
uty United States Military Representa-
tive to the North Atlantic Treaty Orga-
nization Military Committee; Briga-
dier General Joseph R. Barnes, USA
(Ret), Former Assistant Judge Advo-
cate General of the Army; Brigadier
General Stephen Cheney, USMC (Ret),
Former Commanding General Marine
Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island;
Brigadier General Gerald E. Galloway,
USA (Ret), Former Dean of the Aca-
demic Board, US Military Academy,
West Point; Brigadier General Stephen
Xenakis, USA (Ret), Former Com-
manding General, Southeast Regional
Medical Command; Colonel Lawrence
B. Wilkerson, USA (Ret), Former Chief
of Staff to the US Secretary of State.
This letter very directly rebukes the
attempt by the President to create a
committee within the National Secu-
rity Council that would undermine
military and intelligence judgments on
the threats that are posed by climate
change. So instead of recognizing those
and developing a plan to address them,
what the President has been trying to
do is to figure out how to undermine
those very judgments.
At this time, as in legislative session,
I ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 1743 and the Senate proceed to its
immediate consideration; that the bill
be considered read a third time and
passed, and the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Idaho.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I am re-
serving the right to object.
With all due respect to my good
friend and colleague from New Hamp-
shire, we both served on the Foreign
Relations Committee. The Foreign Re-
lations Committee is, as it has been
noted, the committee of jurisdiction on
this matter. We are talking about the
Paris climate agreement. What Sen-
ator SHAHEEN is attempting to do with
this—and, again, with all due respect, I
understand where she is coming from
on it—is to stop the President from
withdrawing from the Paris climate
agreement that was made by his prede-
cessor, President Obama.
Let me say, first of all, that the Sen-
ator is right that the changes we are
experiencing are great. They have large
effects. They are of great magnitude.
Just as importantly, the changes we
make attempting to address this are
going to have great magnitude. In a
great magnitude, they are going to af-
fect the American people both finan-
cially and in the quality of life and the
lifestyle they enjoy.
We can’t do anything about the
changes that are occurring right now,
but what we can do is to do something
about the way we attack this, the way
we make changes to our lifestyle and
what we will give up and what people
are willing to give up in order to ad-
dress this.
The way this is done is nations get
together to talk about this—the 200 na-
tions get together. They did, and they
came up with the Paris climate agree-
ment. Under article II of the U.S. Con-
stitution, section 2, the President is
given the power to make treaties with
other countries, and that is what Presi-
dent Obama attempted to do with this.
However, section 2 goes on to say that
the President can make these treaties
provided two-thirds of the Senate
present concur. So that is a treaty, and
that is how ordinarily agreements are
made between nations.
Obviously, we can do things ourselves
without having a two-thirds vote—with
a 60-percent vote in the Senate and a
simple majority vote in the House. We
can do that amongst ourselves if we
want to change U.S. law as to how we
are going to change the way we do in-
dustry and the way we lead our lives.
We can do that with that kind of a
vote. If we are going to agree with
other countries, on the other hand, it
takes a two-thirds vote.
Now, at the time this was negotiated,
I disagreed with President Obama, and
I disagree with the accord at this time.
The reason I do is I really believe this
is a bad deal for the people of the
United States. I really believe we can
get a better deal. I think what we need
to do, if we are going to do that, is we
need to do it on a bipartisan basis.
There is not going to be a two-thirds
vote without a bipartisan agreement
on this issue.
I would like to see this addressed. I
would like to see us, as the Foreign Re-
lations Committee, and us, as the first
branch of government, constitutionally
protected as such, be a part of this and
not just the second branch negotiating
and then entering into the agreement.
The President has, No. 1, every right
to withdraw from this agreement, just
as President Obama had the right to
enter into this executive agreement. I,
for one, agree that he should withdraw
from the Paris accord. In fact, I en-
couraged him to do so personally when
he was running and then when he was
elected and continuously since then.
That doesn’t mean we should walk
away from this by any stretch of the
imagination. I think what we should do
is do what the U.S. Constitution envi-
sions; that is, you have a negotiation
between us, the United States, and
other countries, and then the matter is
submitted to the U.S. Senate for a vote
to see if two-thirds of us can agree that
this is the way to do this.
So based on that, with all due respect
to my good friend from New Hamp-
shire, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
The Senator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I am
not surprised by my colleague’s objec-
tion. I am, however, disappointed, and
I have to disagree, to some extent, with
the rationale because in fact this was
not a treaty. It was a voluntary, non-
binding agreement that the United
States entered into voluntarily.
I am not saying President Trump
doesn’t have the authority to withdraw
from the agreement. I am saying he is
wrong to withdraw because it is not in
the U.S. national interest to withdraw
from this agreement.
There is an international race to de-
velop clean energy technologies and
practices that reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, and this race exists, in large
part, because of the goals that were es-
tablished in the Paris climate agree-
ment.
Instead of leading the pack in this
race, which the United States should
be doing, the President has chosen to
put us on the sidelines. We are going to
watch our allies and our adversaries
clamor to fill the void he has created.
After decades of American leadership
in clean energy technology innova-
tions, other countries are now poised
to develop new low-carbon technologies
to help countries throughout the world
meet their Paris commitments. Those
could be American technologies. Those
could be American jobs. Instead of
being developed in the United States,
too many of these new technologies
and the jobs that go with them will be
developed outside of our shores. This is
a missed opportunity for the United
States. It is a setback for the American
economy and for American workers.
The scientists are in agreement
worldwide. Climate change is the sin-
gle greatest environmental public
health and economic challenge our
world has ever faced. Right now,
watching this President withdraw the
United States from the Paris Agree-
ment, sitting idly by, this Congress is
surrendering American leadership in
the fight against climate change.
I hope that as time goes by, the
President and our Republican col-
leagues will rethink the position and
acknowledge the need to do something
to address the climate challenge we are
facing and to make sure the United
States is in line for those jobs and the
new energy economy that is being cre-
ated.
With that, I yield the floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.010 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6438 November 6, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, first of
all, I don’t question the sincerity what-
soever of my good friend from New
Hampshire. Indeed, she is quite correct
that the United States has been a lead-
er as far as developing methods by
which we clean up the air and clean up
the water.
There is nothing that is happening
here today, at this moment, that is
going to affect that at all. American
companies are going to continue to be
on the front edge of this, on a very in-
novative basis, and I have every con-
fidence that American businesses will
rise to the occasion and will continue
to actually be the world leader in this
regard.
What I object to is making an agree-
ment with other countries that truly
binds U.S. citizens by doing it without
going through the constitutional proc-
ess of submitting the agreement that is
between our country and others, as is
specifically—very specifically provided
in article II, section 2.
I think if we did that, I think we
would wind up with a better agree-
ment. I think we would wind up with a
bipartisan agreement. We all know
that when we have a bipartisan agree-
ment, we do substantially better as far
as rising to the occasion and all get-
ting behind the effort.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, yes-
terday a bipartisan group met with
seven Fortune 500 companies. They
were all on the cutting edge of new en-
ergy technologies, and everyone around
the table said what they need is to see
policies at the Federal level that en-
couraged the development of new en-
ergy technologies and what we can do
to address climate change.
I like what my colleague said about
being able to work together to address
this. I hope we can do that, and I am
ready to sit down anytime he is to look
at things we might be able to agree on
that will help us move forward to ad-
dress climate change. I appreciate his
willingness to work in a bipartisan
way.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
VETERANS DAY
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
this evening to pay tribute to all the
men and women who have worn our Na-
tion’s uniform in defense of our free-
dom. Veterans Day is a deeply mean-
ingful day for our Nation. Our country
sets this day aside to honor her serv-
icemembers.
In Nebraska, we remember the sac-
rifices of our own heroes. We admire
the courage required to leave your
home in Nebraska and serve America
in her hour of need. It was over 100
years ago, at the 11th hour, on the 11th
day, during the 11th month of the year
that the roars of battle in World War I
fell silent. Since then, Nebraskans and
all Americans have come together
every year to renew our appreciation
for our Nation’s heroes. We pledge that
no matter how much time has passed,
we will never forget their valor, their
service, and their selflessness.
In June, it was one of the greatest
honors of my life to gather at free-
dom’s altar in Normandy, France, to
commemorate the 75th anniversary of
D-day. I was overwhelmed with both
gratitude and pride for our men and
women who ensure that our freedom
lives on, and evil is vanquished.
Now, 75 years earlier, minutes from
where I was standing, Omaha’s own
CPL Ed Morrissette arrived at the
beaches of Normandy with the 6th In-
fantry Regiment. As the Omaha World
Herald reports, ‘‘He leaped over the
side of the landing craft into shoulder-
deep water, carrying a roll of commu-
nications wire.’’
Morrissette recalled holding the wire
and his rifle above the water as he
waded through, dodging an onslaught
of enemy artillery fire. By the grace of
God, he completed his mission, and he
survived the Normandy invasion.
Corporal Morrissette continued fight-
ing for our Nation in France and Ger-
many. Following the war, his career as
a civilian engineer eventually led him
to Offutt Air Force Base. Recently, his
courage and his dedication were recog-
nized.
At the age of 96, the Government of
France awarded Corporal Morrissette
the highest military or civilian
medal—the French Legion of Honor.
Corporal Morrissette’s story inspires
all of us to remember that our duty to
honor our Nation’s heroes is never fin-
ished. The responsibility falls to all of
us to listen to their stories and to
carry them on. Not only do we honor
our troops with our words, we salute
them with our actions.
Nebraskans have always taken this
to heart. It is why you read stories like
that of Chuck Ogle from Kearney. He
was a pilot in the 498th U.S. Army Med-
ical Corps air ambulance company dur-
ing the Tet Offensive in Vietnam.
Every single day, he carries with him a
list of his 14 fellow servicemembers
who were killed in action. It is why
you see stories of hero flights for Ne-
braska veterans to visit Washington,
DC.
Last October, a plane carried 80 Ko-
rean veterans from Hall County to our
Nation’s Capital to visit the monu-
ments dedicated to their service. This
marked the 10th flight for the county’s
veterans to Washington. Now, every
living veteran in Hall County has been
given the opportunity to make this
trip. It is why over the last few years
business leaders and members of the
Omaha community rallied around the
goal of building a new ambulatory clin-
ic at the Omaha VA hospital.
In response to delays to update the
aging Omaha VA facility, I introduced
and President Obama signed into law
the CHIP IN for Vets Act in 2016. The
bill allows control of VA projects to be
placed where it should be—back in the
hands of local communities. It allows
communities like Omaha to take the
lead on new projects by permitting the
VA to accept private contributions to
ensure VA projects are finished both on
time and on budget. Omaha’s commu-
nity and business leaders came up with
this idea in the first place, and they
have delivered.
Construction began on a new ambula-
tory center on the Omaha VA campus
in May of 2018. After the original cost
estimate of $120 million, the Govern-
ment Accountability Office released a
preliminary report that found that the
implementation of the CHIP IN for
Vets Act would reduce the total esti-
mated cost to $86 million. The report
projected that the new facility is now
$34 million under budget and it is 41⁄2
months ahead of schedule.
In the same report, a VA official
stated that because of the agency’s
current major construction backlog,
the CHIP IN approach allowed work on
the Omaha project to begin at least 5
years sooner than it would have under
a normal process. Now Nebraska’s vet-
erans may get the quality of care they
need and deserve earlier than expected.
The success of this project is a testa-
ment to the deep respect and admira-
tion Nebraskans have for our veterans.
Scripture encourages us to pay our
dues wherever they may be. If someone
is due respect, show them respect. If
honor is due, honor them. The amount
of honor and respect our State and Na-
tion owe our veterans is something we
can never fully repay. Our country
could not live on without their service
and sacrifice.
I want to sincerely thank our vet-
erans for their service when our coun-
try needed it the most.
Whether it was in the trenches of Eu-
rope while liberating a continent from
evil or in the Pacific theater during
World War II or stopping the threat of
communism in Korea or Vietnam or de-
fending our Nation against terrorism
in Iraq and Afghanistan, the rescue of
human freedom began with you. I can
promise you that America will never
forget your incredible courage and pa-
triotism, and we will continue to strive
to be worthy of the freedom that burns
brighter today because of your service.
On behalf of all Nebraskans and a
grateful country, thank you.
May God bless our Nation’s veterans
and their families, and may God bless
the United States of America.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to be recognized as
in morning business for such time as I
may consume.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. INHOFE. You know, we don’t
hear that very often. I just heard the
term from the Senator from Nebraska
‘‘under budget and ahead of schedule.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.047 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6439
November 6, 2019
You did something right. Good for
you.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. President, I have been asked sev-
eral times in the last couple, 3 days
where we are with regard to what I
consider to be the most significant bill
of the year every year, which is the De-
fense authorization bill, and I have
been having to give the same answer
for the last 3 or 4 days, and it is unfor-
tunate, but I think it is going to ulti-
mately happen.
Last week, I came down here and I
talked about why we needed to pass the
National Defense Authorization Act
and why a full-year continuing resolu-
tion is totally unacceptable and would
be devastating to us. I am back here
again because in the last week, nothing
has changed. That is not OK. The rea-
son it has not changed is because many
of the Members of the House are off
someplace. I think they are in Afghani-
stan or someplace on a trip when we
are in the middle of negotiating.
Let me just make sure we all under-
stand what I am talking about. For 58
consecutive years, we passed the na-
tional defense authorization bill, so we
will ultimately pass it. We did that.
And I have to say that this is not a par-
tisan statement I am making about
this because the House and Senate
Democrats and Republicans did a good
job.
I particularly want to thank JACK
REED. JACK REED and I—I am the chair-
man of the committee, and he is the
ranking member—did our bill in record
time. We set a record, actually, a year
ago. We did this in a shorter period of
time than has been done in 40 years,
and we were anticipating doing that
again. We did our bill in the Senate,
and everything came out fine. We
ended up passing it with only two votes
in opposition to it. So there is no rea-
son we are not doing it right now.
The reason this is critical is that if
for some reason we didn’t get this done
until December, our kids over there
would not be funded. I am talking
about payroll and everything else. Our
military would stop in its tracks. That
is not going to happen. One reason we
know it is not going to happen is be-
cause we introduced the short version
of the bill that upset everyone. That
was taking everything out of the bill
that had nothing to do with defense
and just doing it. That is getting kind
of in the weeds, and it is complicated.
Nevertheless, we need to get to it just
in a matter of days now, as soon as the
members of the committee in the
House are back in town.
What kind of a message do my Demo-
cratic colleagues think they are send-
ing our troops who lay their lives on
the line every day if we don’t prioritize
their pay, their housing, and their pro-
grams to care for their families while
they are away? What kind of a message
do our Democratic colleagues think we
are sending our allies and our partners,
those who depend on us? What kind of
a message are we sending those who
are not our allies?
This is the problem we are having. I
say to the Democrats in the House—be-
cause it is not the Republicans in the
House, and it is not the Democrats in
the Senate. This is just the Democrats
in the House. We passed our bill in a bi-
partisan way here in the Senate, and
we just need to get this finished. It is
the most important bill of the year.
Now they claim we are not sup-
porting our partners in Syria, and then
they turn around on a dime and refuse
to authorize the very funds that keep
our partners safe and effective in the
fight against ISIS.
I am concerned about the kind of
message our colleagues are sending to
our adversaries. Our adversaries enjoy
this dysfunction. They want defense
funding mired in partisan debate. They
don’t want us to catch up.
If we don’t take action now, partisan
bickering over supporting our troops
and investing in national defense will
be our Achilles’ heel.
At the end of the day, these chal-
lenges won’t go away because we want
them to go away. They are out there.
To meet these challenges, our troops
need equipment, training, and weapons.
Everything is outlined in this blue-
print. This is the blueprint that is the
National Defense Strategy of the Na-
tion. This was put together by an equal
number of Democrats and Republicans
well over a year ago as to how we want
to handle our national defense and
what our strategy is going to be. The
President adopted this, it is a good
strategy, and we have been following
this in our committee to the letter.
We have this National Defense Strat-
egy Commission report. There is a
quote from GEN Creighton Abrams, a
military leader from World War II on
through Vietnam. His name may sound
familiar because the Abrams tank was
named after him. He talked about how
after World War II the United States
failed to properly modernize and train
our military. And who paid for it? Our
soldiers, airmen, Marines, and sailors.
They paid for it with their lives. He
said: ‘‘The monuments we raise to
their heroism and sacrifice are really
surrogates for the monuments we owe
ourselves for our blindness to reality
. . . for our unsubstantiated wishful
thinking about how war could not
come.’’
That is exactly what happened. It
was true then, and it is true now. So to
say that these things can wait while
the House goes on another recess or to
use them as a bargaining chip or to
forgo them to instead wage war on our
own President is at best a waste of
time and resources and at worse a dan-
gerous abdication of our constitutional
duty.
Unfortunately, the truth is, if we
kick the can down the road on these
defense policy and funding bills, we are
just adding another challenge to our
defense.
We were off to a great start last year.
Defense appropriations were enacted on
time for the first time in a decade, and,
as I said, we passed the NDAA over
here faster than we had ever done in 40
years.
All of the service leaders who came
before the Senate Armed Services Com-
mittee said that having on-time appro-
priations and authorization is critical
to rebuilding the force. We have the
National Defense Strategy and the
commission report as a roadmap. We
have a budget deal. There is no reason
we can’t get this done. There is no good
reason our Democratic colleagues are
dragging their feet. Our senior military
leaders said that a continuing resolu-
tion is absolutely the worst thing we
can do.
By the way, a lot of people don’t
know what a continuing resolution is.
If you pass a continuing resolution be-
cause you can’t get appropriations bills
passed, then you are continuing what
you did the previous year. That doesn’t
work when you are carrying on a mili-
tary because the needs we have in the
coming year are not the same needs.
We could have those programs already
complete. Yet we would still have fund-
ing for them under a continuing resolu-
tion. It is a separate issue, but it is one
that is critically important today and
is being considered today.
So I am surprised that the Democrats
in the House—not the Senate. The Sen-
ate Democrats and Republicans worked
very well together. I am surprised that
the Democrats in the House are willing
to resort to a full-year CR. It is throw-
ing in the towel. It is quitting when
our troops need us the most.
My Republican colleagues in the
House, led by House Armed Services
Ranking Member THORNBERRY, put out
this document that talks about how
America’s military will be damaged
under a full-year CR. No one has talked
about this before. I am glad he came
out with it. I will mention five exam-
ples that he mentioned.
It would extend the pilot shortage in
our Air Force—extend, because we are
still climbing out of the current short-
age. We have a problem. We have a
problem in the Air Force, and we have
a problem everywhere we are using fly-
ing equipment, whether it is fixed wing
or otherwise. This is a problem, and it
is a serious problem. If we were to
somehow have to do a full-year CR,
that problem wouldn’t be solved.
It would prevent the military from
managing its personnel, including nec-
essary efforts to grow the force, pay for
military moves, and lock in bonuses for
our troops. That won’t happen if we
end up with a full-year CR.
It would force the Navy to cancel
ship maintenance and training. Repairs
for 14 ships would be canceled.
It would worsen the existing muni-
tions shortage by preventing DOD from
buying more than 6,000 weapons.
Finally, we would fall even further
behind our competitors on hypersonic
weapons, artificial intelligence, and
next-generation equipment that we
need to face all the challenges I just
talked about.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.049 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6440 November 6, 2019
With regard to hypersonic weapons,
as an example, I saw the other day for
the first time—in fact, I used this pic-
ture down on the Senate floor. A
hypersonic weapon is kind of the weap-
on of the future. It is one that works at
5 times the speed of sound. It is a type
of artillery. It is a type of munition.
Prior to the last administration, the
Obama administration, we were ahead
of our peer competitors, which are
China and Russia. Now we are actually
behind China and Russia. That is how
serious this is.
I talk to people in the real world.
When I go back to Oklahoma, I talk to
people, and they assume that we in the
United States have the very best of ev-
erything. We don’t. We have allowed
other countries—primarily China and
Russia—to catch up with us and actu-
ally put us behind in some areas, not to
mention the waste of taxpayer dollars.
A CR wastes billions of dollars by
creating repetitive work, injecting un-
certainty into the contracting process,
and forcing rushed work at year’s end.
It is something that is totally unneces-
sary and is something that should not
be happening.
I have been meeting with my fellow
conferees regularly—more than we ever
have before NDAA negotiations. I am
making sure we have a backup plan if
we can’t reach an agreement on the
NDAA, but time is running out.
Here is the reality. We only have 20
legislative days left in the Senate. The
House has even less than that because
of the recess week they took. If the
House sends us articles of impeach-
ment, that would eat up all the time in
December and could spill into January.
That would mean we go beyond the
deadline our troops need to be funded,
and that is a reality we never had to
face before.
We don’t have time left. We need to
make these bills a priority the way we
always have done before. The NDAA
has passed for the last 58 years. It is
the most important thing we do each
year.
In June, the Senate bill passed 86 to
8. That is a landslide, and that was not
down party lines; that was on a bipar-
tisan basis. I am grateful to the Senate
Democrats for their partnership and
their work in creating and passing this
bipartisan bill. JACK REED is my coun-
terpart over there. He is the ranking
member in the Senate Armed Services
Committee. We worked hand in glove
throughout this process and even set
records. We did our job, and it has to be
completed in the House. This happened
in line with the best traditions of the
Senate Armed Services Committee—a
tradition that spans almost six dec-
ades.
Usually, this is a bipartisan process;
both sides give and take. So it concerns
me to see partisan politics being in-
serted into this must-pass bill when we
go to conference between the House
and the Senate. It concerns me to see
Democrats filibustering Defense appro-
priations to prove a political point. It
concerns me to see them prioritizing
their misguided attempts to undo the
results of the 2016 election through im-
peachment, instead of taking care of
our troops with the NDAA. If we can’t
keep Defense authorizations free of
partisan gridlock, what kind of mes-
sage does that send to Americans who
rely on our troops for protection and
our allies who rely on us?
I said before: The world is watching.
We are sending a message. We need to
make that a successful message.
Let me say one more thing about the
skinny bill. This is now a reality. When
I filed this, we thought the chances we
would have to use that were very re-
mote. If they should go through with
this thing they are threatening to do
over on the House side—an impeach-
ment process—people don’t realize that
if you want to impeach somebody, it
not a simple vote of the majority. It is
the second step that is significant. If
they impeach, they don’t have to have
any evidence, any documentation, any
problem at all if they just want to get
the majority of people and say: Let’s
impeach the President, they can say:
We will impeach the President.
The problem there is, then it comes
over to the Senate, and the Senate has
to go through this long process, and
that is what we would be competing
with when we are not getting the De-
fense authorization bill done. The skin-
ny bill is important. It is now filed. It
is ready to pass, if we should have to do
that. Nobody wants to do it, but we
may end up having to do it. That is the
good news and the bad news. This is the
most important bill of the year. We
need to get it passed.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
thank the chairman of the Armed Serv-
ices Committee for his bipartisan work
with my senior Senator, JACK REED,
year after year on the National Defense
authorizations.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. President, this 257th ‘‘Time to
Wake Up’’ speech reports on my trip to
Colorado to see how climate change is
affecting the Centennial State and to
learn more about the remarkable ac-
tion that Coloradans are taking to con-
front climate change.
Colorado is the 18th State I have vis-
ited on my climate road trips. Typi-
cally, these trips land me in States
where people fighting for climate ac-
tion need some bucking up. Often, I re-
mind those people that there is hope,
even if their State legislature may be
captured by fossil fuel interests, even if
climate change is a dirty word in local
hangouts. That was not the case in Col-
orado. In fact, it is a State on a major
climate change winning streak.
Coloradans were the ones bucking me
up. I saw that right off the bat at the
Alliance Center in downtown Denver.
The center’s chief operating officer,
Jason Page, took me around this
LEED-certified space, which is part
business incubator, part rallying point
for an array of organizations fighting
for climate action in Colorado and
throughout the country. Jason and his
colleagues hosted me and local envi-
ronmental leaders to discuss the work
they have done, and they have done a
lot.
Just in the last year, Colorado passed
and signed into law seven important
climate and clean energy bills. They
include legislation to set targets for
cutting the State’s climate pollution
relative to 2005 levels by at least 90 per-
cent by 2050. The legislature passed
four measures to boost the adoption of
electric vehicles, and it passed bills to
help move to new energy-efficient
home appliances, to ease the transition
to renewable energy for Xcel, Colo-
rado’s largest utility, and to collect
long-term climate data so the State
can craft even more smart legislation
to combat climate change and build re-
siliency to climate consequences.
To hear how Colorado is going to hit
its renewable targets, I met with Xcel,
State public utility commissioners,
and Gov. Jared Polis. Their message to
me was simple: It is a challenge, and
we are going to do it. They certainly
aren’t backing away from the chal-
lenge. On top of the State’s renewable
goal, Xcel has committed to an 80-per-
cent cut in carbon emissions across its
portfolio by 2030 and to reach 100 per-
cent carbon-free energy by 2050. Xcel,
supported by the Colorado Public Utili-
ties Commission, is now incorporating
the social cost of carbon—a key meas-
ure of the long-term damage done by
carbon pollution—into its planning
process.
On top of forward-looking policy,
Colorado is fortunate to be a leader in
developing clean energy technology.
For that, I visited Panasonic’s Pena
Station NEXT project, they call it. It
is a collaboration between the city of
Denver, the utility Xcel, the Denver
International Airport, the State De-
partment of Transportation, and
Panasonic. The project is designed to
show what a smart city powered by re-
newable energy looks like. It includes
two megawatts of solar, a massive bat-
tery storage system, which I am look-
ing at right here, a facility to test au-
tonomous vehicles, and an operation
center that can integrate all that tech-
nology for better efficiency.
At the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory in Golden, I saw some of
the most advanced wind, solar, and
other renewable energy technologies in
the world. This National Lab is testing
the next generation of wind turbines,
hydrogen fuel cells, autonomous vehi-
cles, solar panels, smart grid tech-
nology, and more. NREL’s job isn’t just
to develop these technologies but also
to help private industry adopt them,
bringing clean energy to scale and cre-
ating jobs in the process.
This is me at NREL. I am painting a
solar-activated fluid that they have
come up with onto a plate and in-
stantly generating energy from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.050 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6441
November 6, 2019
lamp coming above. As I painted it,
you could see the dials come up as en-
ergy was generated off that freshly
painted plate. It was like putting nail
polish down on a surface. They are
doing some pretty amazing stuff. At
NREL, I could not help but notice a fa-
miliar logo, TPI Composites, a com-
pany that makes top-of-the-line com-
posite materials in Rhode Island. Natu-
rally, because NREL needs the best,
they work with this company with a
Rhode Island footprint to develop next-
generation materials. I am proud to re-
port that our Composites Alliance of
Rhode Island includes TPI. They have a
big role in building wind turbine blades
and other technologies.
Colorado feels this urgency because
the Mountain West is feeling the ef-
fects of climate change more and more
every day. I met with leading climate
scientists for a briefing at the National
Center for Atmospheric Research in
Boulder, overlooking the Flatirons at
the feet of the Rocky Mountains.
NCAR’s Doctors James Done, Laura
Reed, Daniel Swain, Jackie Schuman,
and Bill Mahoney told me about their
important research into climate
change’s effects in the West; how vege-
tation is withering; how wildfires grow
more frequent, have longer duration
and are more intense; how hydrology
changes as weather patterns shift and
temperatures rise throughout the re-
gion; and how extreme weather events
like sudden downpours and prolonged
droughts are becoming a new unfortu-
nate normal.
In Fort Collins, I met with truly
dedicated public servants from across
the Federal Government who specialize
in land management and climate adap-
tation and have gotten together to co-
ordinate their efforts. These excep-
tional public servants spent their ca-
reers protecting our public lands. They
are witnessing firsthand the devasta-
tion wrought on our public lands by
climate change. They described to me
their battles to safeguard stands of old-
growth sequoias—a national treasure—
and to rebuild beaches and dunes in the
face of rising seas and stronger oceanic
storms and even to cover melting gla-
ciers with sheeting to try to help pre-
vent them from melting quite so quick-
ly.
They love these lands. They work all
their lives to help and save and protect
these lands. They do everything in
their power to honor and serve these
lands. The fact that they battle on in
spite of the heartbreaking pace and se-
verity of the destruction climate
change is causing is a human inspira-
tion.
Speaking of inspiration, I closed out
my trip with an event organized by the
group POW—Protect Our Winters—to
hear what climate change means to the
winter sports and outdoor industry.
Skiers, snowboarders, and industry ex-
ecutives told me about the climate
threat to the multibillion-dollar winter
sports industry in Colorado, which re-
lies on plenty of snow and cold weather
to thrive. Professional skier Cody
Cirillo told me:
I fear there will be no more snow by the
end of the century. I fear a whole ski culture
will cease to exist. I fear economic impacts
on Summit County and all other mountain
towns. I fear the loss of an industry that has
given me so much. . . . I fear the kids will
not get the opportunity to see a first snow,
to feel winter’s inaugural bite on the nose,
and to miss out on so many wonderful les-
sons.
These fears are driving Cody and
other world-class athletes to speak out.
He and his fellow POW members aren’t
giving in; they are speaking up.
There are many reasons Coloradans
are acting on climate and transitioning
their energy mix away from fossil
fuels. Colorado has the benefit of fossil
fuels, but Coloradans want to protect
their beautiful, natural landscape.
They want to sustain their winter
sports and hospitality industries. They
want a healthy, prosperous future for
their children, and they understand the
risks of developing and using those fos-
sil fuels. They also recognize that there
are strong forces coming in the energy
market—forces that will shift away
from fracked natural gas and coal to
carbon-free wind and solar. Coloradans
know it is better to lead that shift than
to wait until the bottom drops out.
We have known for a while that coal
is facing big problems. Murray Energy,
which is a major coal company with
cozy ties to the Trump administration,
just filed for bankruptcy last week.
Alarms are going off about natural gas,
which is a type of fuel that the fossil
fuel industry touts as less dirty.
In Boulder, Paul Bodnar, the man-
aging director of the Rocky Mountain
Institute, highlighted a report RMI
issued in September showing just how
quickly this shift, this cost reduction
across the renewable spectrum, is
going to make the economics of nat-
ural gas untenable.
RMI’s report foretells of ‘‘a turning
point for the relative economics of
clean energy resources (including wind,
solar, storage; energy efficiency; and
demand flexibility) versus new gas-
fired generation.’’
The report continues: ‘‘For the first
time, the rapidly falling costs of re-
newables and batteries are allowing op-
timized combinations of these re-
sources . . . to systematically
outcompete gas-fired generation on a
cost basis while providing all the same
grid services.’’ The ‘‘same grid serv-
ices’’ means the same reliability and
the same availability but at a lower
cost.
Here is a graph showing how fast
clean energy will overtake gas plants.
This has been the falling cost of
clean energy. This is the cost of build-
ing and operating a new gas plant. This
is the cost of operating an existing gas
plant. So we are now at the crossover
point where it is cheaper to use renew-
ables—clean energy power—than it is
to build new natural gas plants.
Setting aside the pollution and the
other extraneous costs, all of which
economists would call externalities
that come with burning natural gas,
which is the methane leakage, the CO2
from the burn—all of it—on even just
the heavily subsidized existing natural
gas pricing, clean energy still beats
them right now. They are projecting
that it is going to go ahead, and by
about 2035, it will be cheaper to build a
new clean energy power facility than it
will be to continue to feed natural gas
into your existing, already built, depre-
ciated natural gas facilities. Just on
price is where we are going. So some-
body building natural gas facilities
into this projected future has a real
problem on his hands.
RMI has found that clean energy re-
sources beat on price alone—on price—
over 80 percent of proposed gas-fired
powerplant capacity, and that clean
energy will render 70 percent of pro-
posed gas plants ‘‘uneconomic’’—can’t
compete—just on price by 2035. In other
words, it will not make sense even to
run, let alone build, those uneconomic
natural gas plants. They will be shut-
tered, stranded assets, which will deal
a financial blow to the company or the
investors who own them, and if the
utilities can shove that cost through to
their consumers, it will leave con-
sumers in the lurch. If over half of your
fleet is stranded, that is catastrophic
for a utility company just on the eco-
nomics.
It actually gets worse for natural gas
in a new investigation by the watchdog
group Unearthed, based on data from a
very respected fossil fuel industry firm,
the expert consulting firm Rystad.
Based on Rystad’s data, the new report
finds that the big oil companies’ prom-
ises to curb the methane emissions
from natural gas extraction appear to
be completely bogus. The report found
that the biggest industry players, in-
cluding ExxonMobil and BP, were
among the worst when it comes to
wasting and burning off methane.
Natural gas is facing a double wham-
my. First, natural gas is worsening our
climate crisis faster than we knew, and
some of our biggest fossil fuel compa-
nies are driving the problem.
Now, while we are finding out how
the fossil fuel industry has misled us
about its methane emissions and about
how much leakage and burning off
there is, we are being treated to the
spectacle of one of the biggest fossil
fuel industry trade groups—the Amer-
ican Petroleum Institute—in its
launching of a seven-figure ad cam-
paign to convince America that ‘‘we’re
are on it.’’ We are America’s natural
gas industry, and we are on it when it
comes to greenhouse gas emissions.
Well, it is on it not so much, appar-
ently.
This ad campaign looks like just
more fossil fuel industry
disinformation. It is an industry that
just can’t seem to help itself from say-
ing things that aren’t true.
Anyway, if you pair natural gas’s
rapidly becoming ‘‘uneconomic’’
against renewables with emerging data
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.052 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6442 November 6, 2019
showing a much bigger methane prob-
lem for the industry, that pairing—
that combined result—is very gloomy
for natural gas investors. That is why,
in getting back to Colorado, it is such
a smart move to unhitch your energy
market from those fuels while you can.
A savvy move, Colorado.
Across this country, Americans are
already acting on climate. In the face
of the President’s extraordinarily ill-
advised decision to pursue a departure
from the Paris Agreement, States, mu-
nicipalities, and major corporations
are all standing up and saying: Nope,
we are still in.
They get the problem that we face,
and they get how important it is. It is
time for us in the Senate to join them
in waking up and coming up with a so-
lution to this evident problem.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO JOSHUA HALL, JENNIFER
CHILDRESS, DAWN WILCOX, AND ANGIE WRIGHT
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
one of my favorite times during the
week, when I get to come to the Senate
floor—I know it is the pages’ favorite
time—to talk a little bit about Alaska
and talk about my State and present
what we weekly call the ‘‘Alaskan of
the Week.’’
It is the opportunity to talk about
someone in the community who has
done something great for their commu-
nity, for the State, maybe for America,
and I would like to recognize this great
variety of wonderful Alaskans, great
Americans, whom we have in my State
and talk about them.
By the way, I always like to give a
little update on what is going on in
Alaska and to talk to people who are in
the Gallery and who are watching on
TV and encourage them—now is the
time to plan your next trip to Alaska if
you are going to come next summer.
But, also, you should know that win-
ter, which is coming—it has pretty
much come to Alaska—is a great time
to visit too. It is a winter wonderland.
You can ski, snowboard, and at end of
the day, sit back and drink something
warm and watch the northern lights
dance in the sky. You can’t do that in
many States in our great Nation. So
come on up for the trip of a lifetime.
We want you to come whether it is
summer, winter, fall, spring; it doesn’t
matter. You will not be disappointed if
you come visit us in the great State of
Alaska.
I am going to break the rules a little
bit on the Alaskan of the Week because
I usually recognize one, but today I am
going to recognize four extraordinary
Alaskans. They are four teachers in my
State who are the recent recipients of
the Presidential Award for Excellence
in Mathematics and Science Teaching.
Joshua Hall is a math teacher at
Dimond High School in Anchorage and
the chair of the math program there.
Jennifer Childress is also a teacher at
Dimond, teaching science and engi-
neering courses. She currently teaches
11th and 12th grade physics and Ad-
vanced Placement physics. Dawn
Wilcox teaches second grade at Camp-
bell Elementary School in Anchorage,
and Angie Wright teaches 4th and 5th
grade math at Auke Bay Elementary in
Juneau, AK.
We are very, very proud of them.
This is a great achievement for all four
of these wonderful teachers.
This award is the highest honor be-
stowed by the U.S. Government specifi-
cally for K–12 science, technology, en-
gineering, mathematics, and computer
science teaching—something we need
more of, not just in Alaska but in
America. And we need great teachers
who can do this, and that is what this
award recognizes.
As any State has—Alaska, North Da-
kota—we have thousands of teachers in
my State who do such great work day
in and day out to make sure our next
generation is not only educated on the
facts but who also understand, in the
words of the great leader Nelson
Mandela, ‘‘Education is the most pow-
erful weapon which you can use to
change the world.’’ Nelson Mandela
said that.
These four teachers have been work-
ing hard every day for years so that
their students will go out and do just
that—change the world; make Alaska,
America, the world a better place.
They, as well as our teachers all
across the country, all across Alaska,
certainly have one of the most impor-
tant and most difficult jobs, so we sa-
lute all of them, but I want to salute
these four teachers in a little bit more
detail. They have chosen not only to
master these science, engineering,
physics subjects, but to teach it to the
next generation.
Despite a slight improvement in the
STEM skills of Americans over the last
20 years, it is widely recognized that
the United States is still being out-
paced by countries all over the world in
these critical subject matters.
Now, more than ever, our country
desperately needs skilled Americans,
skilled professionals, who can innovate
for our Nation, who can improve our
Nation’s infrastructure, advance our
healthcare system, build the tools that
defend our country, and ensure our Na-
tion’s prosperity and a strong econ-
omy. We need STEM education.
There is so much to say about all
four of these teachers, but let me give
you a brief example of how they are
teaching the youth of Alaska in these
critical areas.
Mr. Hall is a math teacher at Dimond
High School who, by the way, has
former students and fans in my office.
This is a bit of a theme. A lot of these
teachers have taught a lot of my staff
right now, including Jesse here. Mr.
Hall has been an educator for more
than 20 years. He has been teaching
math for the past 14 years at Dimond
High, and as the department chair, he
decided that the school needed an
event where math students could show
and take pride in the skills they are
learning.
He worked with another math teach-
er to design and organize a schoolwide
math competition. They just had their
fourth annual event, and 175 students
participated. The audience cheered;
students were excited. It was a huge
deal. Studying math is really cool. It is
great. Gosh, there were 175 students. So
that is Mr. Hall.
Mrs. Childress is also at Dimond High
and also has a big fan base in my office
of former students, including Jesse, I
believe. She has taught for over 20
years, 14 of which have been teaching
science and engineering courses at
Dimond.
She helped found the Engineering
Academy at Dimond, and she and an-
other teacher developed and ran a pro-
gram called Smart Girls Rock! Smart
Girls Rock! exposes freshman and soph-
omore girls to female engineers from
Anchorage and encourages young
women to pursue STEM careers. As a
father of three daughters, I know just
how important it is to do that.
Here is a fun fact: Mrs. Childress and
Mr. Hall have been married for 23
years, which makes this award all the
more special for both of them. I would
call them a true power couple in Alas-
ka STEM education.
Miss Wilcox, a teacher from Camp-
bell Elementary, has had a 20-year ca-
reer and has been teaching at Campbell
for the past 3 years. Working with her
colleagues, she created a STEM school
at Campbell—the first STEM elemen-
tary school in Anchorage.
Again, these are innovators. You can
tell these teachers are innovators.
Also, as a project for the Iditarod
Teacher in Every Classroom, which is a
science program based on our famous
sled dog race, the Iditarod, she worked
with another colleague to get their
classroom to adopt and improve a local
park.
Miss Wilcox’s second graders ap-
peared before the school board, the
community council, and the parks
commission to advocate for their idea.
So not only are they learning STEM,
but they are learning civics. For their
efforts, they were awarded a $20,000 An-
chorage Parks Foundation matching
grant, and the park now has outdoor
learning labs, paths, signs, and is a joy
to visit. So all of you visitors who are
going to come to Alaska have to make
sure you check out this great new in-
novation in our parks.
Finally, let me talk about Ms.
Wright. Ms. Wright has been an educa-
tor for over 16 years. She began her ca-
reer teaching in rural Alaska, which I
view as the heart and soul of our State.
For the last 7 years she taught at Auke
Bay in Juneau, where she was born and
raised.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.053 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6443
November 6, 2019
She is passionate about incor-
porating place-based knowledge into
the classroom. She says that every
year her students participate in place-
based learning. They pick berries, a
traditional part of the Alaska Native
subsistence lifestyle, in order to gather
the data and more detailed information
about our incredible environments
throughout the State.
‘‘Students in my classroom learn a
lot of Alaskan Native languages and
participate in a Tlingit dance group,
performing around southeast Alaska.’’
She also takes her fourth and fifth
grade students on a field trip to the
muskeg ecosystem to learn how ani-
mals adapt to survive in different envi-
ronments.
‘‘Teaching in Alaska is a gift and
taking advantage of it is something I
value very much,’’ Ms. Wright said. It
was, in fact, Mr. President, a sentiment
expressed by all four of these teachers
who won this very prestigious award.
Henry Adams once wrote, ‘‘A teacher
affects eternity; he or she can never
tell where their influence actually
stops.’’ Think about that. A teacher
impacts eternity.
The influence that these teachers
have over the lives of so many young
Alaskans will really never stop. As I
mentioned, many staff members of my
office are direct recipients of this influ-
ence, which will continue help to grow
the next generation of leaders, of work-
ers, of thinkers, of doers, and I am sure
the next generation of teachers,
through their example. I see students
who, in turn, will continue to make our
State and our country the great places
that they are. We cannot thank these
teachers enough for what they have
done.
So I want to congratulate Mr. Hall,
Ms. Childress, Ms. Wilcox, and Ms.
Wright for all they have done for this
great award, for all they continue to
do, for your dedication to your profes-
sion, for your passion for math and
science, and for your commitment to
Alaska’s next generation.
And, of course, I want to congratu-
late them on being this week’s Alas-
kans of the Week.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. SULLIVAN. For the information
of Senators, tomorrow the Senate will
vote on the confirmation of the
Rudofsky and Wilson nominations at
11:45 a.m. and the confirmation of the
Nardini nomination at 1:45 p.m.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session for a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I was ab-
sent but had I been present, I would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 344
the confirmation of Executive Calendar
No. 355, David Austin Tapp, of Ken-
tucky, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims.∑
f
S. RES. 150
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, this
week, the United States House of Rep-
resentatives made history. For the
very first time, an overwhelming ma-
jority of its members—more than 400—
adopted a resolution recognizing the
Armenian genocide. I rise today to
urge my colleagues in the Senate to do
the same thing—the right thing—and
pass S. Res. 150.
It has now been 104 years since the
Armenian people became targets of the
most evil and hate-filled campaign of
violence that the world had ever seen.
From 1915 to 1923, a million and a half
Armenian men, women, and children
were murdered at the hands of the
Ottoman Turkish Government. It was
so atrocious that no word yet existed
to describe what was happening—not
until the creation of the word ‘‘geno-
cide,’’ the deliberate and systematic
destruction of a racial, political, or
cultural group.
Unfortunately, nobody has ever been
held accountable, and the events sur-
rounding the Armenian genocide con-
tinue to be denied, but the truth is
simple: What happened to the Arme-
nian people was absolutely genocide,
and the Armenian community is right
to insist that it be described that way.
This is why I have always supported
Senate resolutions calling for the rec-
ognition of the Armenian genocide and
urged my colleagues to join me.
We know that the deeper the wound,
the longer it takes to heal, and nothing
cuts deeper into the collective con-
sciousness of a people than genocide.
At the same time, we know now that
the Ottoman Empire’s determination
to exterminate the Armenian people
was no match for their will to survive,
and those who survived embodied the
best qualities of the human spirit:
hope, resilience, perseverance, and
love.
Some survivors made their way to
America, and many of them built their
new lives in Michigan. They have cre-
ated thriving communities, built busi-
nesses, raised families, founded
schools, and contributed their rich cul-
ture to the fabric of our State.
The more than 20,000 Armenians who
are living in Michigan today have not
forgotten what happened—none of us
should, for we know that, if we do not
recognize the atrocities of the past, we
risk blinding ourselves to atrocities in
the future.
Recognition of the Armenian geno-
cide is long overdue. A crime like this
casts a long shadow, and this shadow
can be conquered only by light, the
light of truth that comes from fully ac-
knowledging the full scale of the hor-
ror that the Armenians endured.
I urge my colleagues to take up and
support this resolution.
Thank you.
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise today
to honor the life and legacy of the late
Senator Kay Hagan. Her loss will be
deeply felt by us here in the Senate,
both by those who served with her as
well as the many staff and individuals
she worked with over time. Senator
Hagan was a dedicated public servant
who touched many lives faithfully
serving her home State of North Caro-
lina.
Born in Shelby, NC, Senator Hagan
attended Florida State University and
then returned to North Carolina to at-
tend law school at Wake Forest Univer-
sity. She worked at North Carolina Na-
tional Bank, a predecessor to Bank of
America, for 10 years, becoming a vice
president in the estates and trust divi-
sion. She was a loving wife and mother
deeply committed to her family. She
left the bank to raise her three chil-
dren—Jeanette, Tilden, and Carrie—
and became actively involved in the
Greensboro community.
Senator Hagan started early in poli-
tics helping her uncle, former Florida
Governor and U.S. Senator Lawton
Chiles, paste bumper stickers on sup-
porters’ cars. She was active in North
Carolina politics and ran Governor Jim
Hunt’s campaign in Guilford County in
1992 and 1996. In 1998, she ran for the
North Carolina State Senate and
served there for 10 years, where she co-
chaired the budget committee. During
her 6-year tenure as cochair of the
budget, she increased North Carolina’s
Rainy Day fund and balanced five
straight budgets. I commend her com-
mitment to fiscal responsibility and
achieving a balanced budget. In 2008,
she won the election for the U.S. Sen-
ate seat and showed up in Congress
ready to work for North Carolinians
back home.
One thing Senator Hagan was known
for here in the Senate was the effort
she put in to be as open and accessible
to her constituents. As a dedicated
public servant, Senator Hagan made
constituent services a priority and
often traveled the State hosting ‘‘Con-
versations with Kay.’’
It is difficult to pinpoint Senator
Hagan’s single most greatest achieve-
ment. During her political career at
the local, State, and Federal level,
Senator Hagan championed many im-
portant issues and served as a tireless
advocate for her constituents.
Representing one of the most mili-
tary-friendly States in the Nation,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06NO6.054 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6444 November 6, 2019
Senator Hagan advocated for Active-
Duty military, veterans, and their fam-
ilies in her role serving on the Senate
Armed Services Committee. Coming
from a military family, Senator Hagan
understood the needs of those who
serve our country and their families.
Along with Senator BURR, she was key
in getting documents released per-
taining to contaminated water at
Camp Lejeune, giving families the an-
swers they deserved. She was con-
stantly reminding us all to remember
and understand the sacrifices made by
our military and their families, often
telling their stories on the Senate
floor.
I had the privilege of working with
Senator Hagan on issues before the
Senate Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions Committee. From her time in
the State senate, Senator Hagan was a
champion for financial literacy edu-
cation, and I greatly enjoyed our work
together on financial literacy initia-
tives for children. I worked very close-
ly with Senator Hagan on the Biologics
Price Competition and Innovation Act,
which we offered as an amendment to-
gether, along with Senator Hatch, to
the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act when it was being considered
in committee. She was instrumental in
the creation of a new pathway for
biosimilars, a lower cost alternative to
biologic drugs. Our work together has
fostered competition and improved
choices for American patients.
Senator Hagan understood the true
value of bipartisan work and developed
strong relationships with Members of
both parties. I admired her commit-
ment to work across the aisle and rec-
oncile shared goals of bettering the
lives of Americans.
She was a committed woman of faith,
serving as a Sunday school teacher for
many years. A member of the Pres-
byterian Church, she was always one to
do what she thought was right rather
than what was easiest.
My wife Diana joins me in sending
our deepest condolences to her loved
ones. We hope she will find eternal
peace and happiness knowing she had a
profound effect on all that knew her as
a colleague, as a mother and as a
friend.
f
REMEMBERING CHRISTA
MCAULIFFE
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise
today to commemorate the life and
legacy of Christa McAuliffe.
Christa McAuliffe was born on Sep-
tember 2, 1948, in Boston, MA. She grew
up in suburban Massachusetts, and she
studied American history and edu-
cation in college and graduate school.
After some time teaching high school
in Maryland, she moved in 1978 with
her family to New Hampshire, where
she started work as a teacher at Con-
cord High School.
She was a passionate and dedicated
teacher. She taught a variety of sub-
jects, including history, economics,
and law. Her former students describe
her enthusiasm and her creativity in
planning lessons and activities for stu-
dents. She even developed an original
course, called ‘‘The American Woman.’’
One of her former students says,
‘‘She was very exuberant in her teach-
ing and excited about what she was
teaching. She was always willing to
help outside of the classroom if you
needed it. I remember her constantly,
every day that I stayed late after
school to make up work that I’d missed
for other classes. . . . checking in to
see if there was anything she could do
to help me.’’
Christa believed strongly in the im-
portance of the teaching profession and
in working creatively to help students
understand the human side of histor-
ical events. When NASA launched its
Teacher in Space Program in 1984,
Christa seized the opportunity and ap-
plied for what she called the ‘‘ultimate
field trip.’’ She wrote in her applica-
tion to NASA:
In developing my course, The American
Woman, I have discovered that much infor-
mation about the social history of the
United States has been found in diaries,
travel accounts and personal letters. This so-
cial history of the common people . . . gives
my students an awareness of what the whole
society was doing at a particular time in his-
tory. They get the complete story. Just as
the pioneer travelers of the Conestoga wagon
days kept personal diaries, I, as a pioneer
space traveler, would do the same . . . My
perceptions as a non-astronaut would help
complete and humanize the technology of
the Space Age. Future historians would use
my eyewitness accounts to help in their
studies of the impact of the Space Age on the
general population.
Her application was chosen out of
more than 11,000 applications sub-
mitted by teachers from around the
country.
Even during her busy NASA training
schedule and newfound public atten-
tion, she remained dedicated to her
students back home in New Hampshire.
She flew all the way back from Hous-
ton, in the middle of training, in order
to be there for the first day of school at
Concord High. She even somehow found
the time to write college recommenda-
tions for her students on the day before
the Challenger launch.
She planned to keep a journal and
teach lessons from space. She wanted
to humanize space travel and make the
experience accessible to regular people.
She said that she hoped her experience
and the public attention would inspire
more people to become teachers.
Tragically, on January 28, 1986, the
Challenger shuttle exploded just 73 sec-
onds after launching, killing Christa as
well as the rest of the crew: Gregory
Jarvis, Ronald McNair, Ellison
Onizuka, Judy Resnik and Dick
Scobee.
Many people know that Christa’s
motto was ‘‘I touch the future, I
teach,’’ and that statement remains as
true today as it ever was. More than 30
years later, Christa McAuliffe con-
tinues to inspire new generations of
students and teachers. In fact, a num-
ber of Christa’s former students have
gone on to become teachers them-
selves. One in particular says she at
times turns to the question ‘‘What
would Christa do?’’ for guidance.
Schools and science centers across
the country are named for her. In New
Hampshire, we have the McAuliffe-
Shepard Discovery Center, an air and
space museum and planetarium, as well
as the Christa McAuliffe School, an el-
ementary school in Concord. There
have even been an asteroid and a crater
on the moon named after her.
The Christa McAuliffe Commemora-
tive Coin Act was signed into law by
the President on October 9. The enact-
ment of this legislation means that a
commemorative coin in Christa’s honor
will be minted by the U.S. Treasury in
2021. Proceeds from the sale of this coin
will go to support science, technology,
engineering and math, STEM, edu-
cation.
Christa McAuliffe demonstrated
throughout her life how to make the
world a better place, not only through
once-in-a-lifetime feats of bravery but
also through her everyday actions and
interactions with those around her. I
hope we can all continue to look to her
example for inspiration and ask our-
selves ‘‘What would Christa do?’’
f
REMEMBERING CHIEF GREGORY E.
PYLE
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor the memory of Gregory
E. Pyle, Chief of the Choctaw Nation of
Oklahoma, who passed away last week.
Chief Pyle was a dedicated servant and
leader of the Choctaw Nation for 30
years. After more than 13 years as the
Assistant Chief of the Tribe, in 1997, he
became Chief of the Choctaw Nation
until his retirement in 2014.
Chief Pyle was a man of vision and
action. He put families first by focus-
ing on health, jobs, and education.
Under his thoughtful leadership, the
Choctaw Nation focused on economic
development, which resulted in new
business and job opportunities for Trib-
al members.
One of my fondest memories with
Chief Pyle was when we worked to-
gether to pass the historic Code Talk-
ers legislation, which awarded Congres-
sional Commemorative Medals to the
Code Talkers of the Choctaw Nation of
Oklahoma, along with other Tribes, in
recognition of their service during
World Wars I and II. Not many people
remember this, but Chief Pyle and I
started on our journey to honor these
heroes in 2002, and it wasn’t until 2008
that we were able to get it done. This
measure along with many others not
only speaks to his character, but also
to his unwavering dedication to the
Choctaw people.
The Choctaw Nation and the State of
Oklahoma are grateful for his dedica-
tion and humble leadership. His legacy
will benefit generations to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.016 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6445
November 6, 2019
TRIBUTE TO MASTER SERGEANT
MATTHEW WILLIAMS
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize and honor MSG
Matthew Williams who was awarded
the Congressional Medal of Honor by
the President of the United States of
America on October 30, 2019.
Throughout his life, MSG Matthew
Williams displayed tremendous con-
fidence, competence, and determina-
tion. He graduated from Angelo State
University with a bachelor’s degree in
criminal justice and completed the
hardest training the U.S. Army has to
offer: Special Forces Assessment and
Selection, the Special Forces Qualifica-
tion Course, and SERE training.
Master Sergeant Williams is a mas-
ter and expert in his chosen profes-
sion—18 Bravo, U.S. Army Special
Forces weapons sergeant—and has
proven himself to be a consummate
professional with service in numerous
positions: weapons Sergeant oper-
ational Detachment Alpha 3336, senior
weapons sergeant Operational Detach-
ment Alpha 332, senior instructor/writ-
er, Delta Company, 2nd Battalion, 1st
Special Warfare Training Group, and
operations sergeant, Alpha Company
2nd Battalion, 3rd SFG (A).
Master Sergeant Williams has a prov-
en commitment to service and to this
Nation by repeatedly answering the
call to action with a deployment in
support of Operation JUNIPER
SHIELD and multiple deployments in
support of Operation ENDURING
FREEDOM. He displayed conspicuous
gallantry on April 6, 2008, as a member
of Operational Detachment Alpha 3336,
during Operation Commando Wrath, a
mission to capture or kill high-value
targets of the Hezeb Islami al Gulbadin
in the Shok Valley of Afghanistan.
With numerous U.S. soldiers and Af-
ghan commandos pinned down by in-
tense enemy fire, Master Sergeant Wil-
liams continuously disregarded his own
safety and concern, braved rocket-pro-
pelled-grenade and heavy machinegun
fire in order to lead a group of Afghan
commandos on a counterattack across
ice-covered boulders and a fast-moving,
ice-cold, waist-deep river to help rein-
force and evacuate four wounded team-
mates and set-up a critical firing posi-
tion to allow his other teammates and
Afghan commandos to escape safety.
For his actions that day, Master Ser-
geant Williams was awarded the Medal
of Honor, the Nation’s highest medal,
on 30 October 2019, by the President of
the United States, Donald J. Trump.
Kevin Stitt, Governor of Oklahoma,
proclaimed November 6, as Master Ser-
geant Matthew Williams Day, and I en-
courage all citizens to recognize the
achievements and contributions by
Master Sergeant Williams to the U.S.
of America and to the United States
Army Special Forces.
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO EDNA BOYCE
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Edna Boyce of Dawson County for her
impact on the Glendive community.
When young schoolchildren begin
their day in Glendive, Edna is the first
face they see because, for 41 years,
Edna has been driving the school bus
for the Glendive School District!
In April of 1978, Edna decided she
wanted a change in her career from
working at the Glendive Bakery. That
April, she marched into the school dis-
trict supervisor’s office for an inter-
view. When the district supervisor
asked if she had any experience, Edna
said she had experience driving sugar-
beet trucks. The supervisor gave her
the job as bus driver, and Edna has
been happily serving the Glendive
School District ever since.
It is my honor to recognize Edna
Boyce for her commitment to the
Glendive community. She has been a
committed bus driver, and her bright
smile and cheerful attitude has bright-
ened the morning for so many young
Montanans. She has made a tremen-
dous impact on Glendive and the State
of Montana, and I thank her for all of
her years of hard work.∑
f
40TH ANNIVERSARY OF NEW
VENTURES MAINE
∑ Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize the 40th anniversary
of New Ventures Maine, NVM. NVM is
a nonprofit that provides adults with
the tools they need to succeed in a
changing economy. Through free class-
es and individualized coaching, NVM
has helped thousands of Maine people
find jobs, start their own businesses,
and manage their finances.
In 1978, Merle Nelson, a representa-
tive from Portland, ME, and Barbara
Trafton, a senator from Lewiston, ME,
spearheaded a bill that established
what was then called the ‘‘Displaced
Homemakers Project.’’ The program
was designed to support Maine women
transitioning into the workforce after
focusing on raising their families.
Since its inception, Gilda Nardone has
served as executive director and she,
along with her skillful team, have
steadfastly executed the vision of its
founders while seamlessly addressing
the changing needs of the community
around them for the last four decades.
Fueled by the successes and tenacity
of the people they serve, the organiza-
tion has expanded its mission, adding
courses on business management, fi-
nancial literacy, and leadership. Other
initiatives have been introduced as
well, including innovative mini-grant
programs, loan funding, and matched
savings accounts. In 2015, the project
officially became New Ventures Maine
and rededicated itself to serving all
Maine adults, men and women alike.
Throughout its history, NVM has
committed to providing access to the
organization’s services, regardless of
wealth or status, and has always
prioritized serving the historically dis-
advantaged and those with limited re-
sources. There are NVM offices and op-
portunities in all 16 counties in Maine,
and they continued to expand access to
their resources with the adoption of
online courses.
I am not the first to stand up and ap-
plaud NVM’s contributions to the
State. In 1993, Ms. Nardone was in-
ducted into the Maine Women’s Hall of
Fame for her work with the organiza-
tion. In 2004, Representative Nelson
was given the first annual Women
Making a Difference Award, named in
her honor, for her pioneering role in
creating New Ventures Maine. These
are some of the public accolades but
there are countless Maine people who
quietly praise the work of NVM be-
cause of the difference this remarkable
organization has made in their lives. A
tribute to their advocacy that has lift-
ed so many out of uncertainty and into
the light of strength and courage.
I am proud to recognize the great
work of New Ventures Maine over the
last 40 years. Their team of profes-
sionals, and the paths they have
cleared, truly exemplify Maine’s motto
of ‘‘Dirigo,’’ I Lead.∑
f
RECOGNIZING POPULAR PATCH
∑ Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, as a mem-
ber and former chairman of the Senate
Committee on Small Business and En-
trepreneurship, each month I recognize
and celebrate the American entrepre-
neurial spirit by highlighting the suc-
cess of a small business in my home
State of Idaho. However, in honor of
Veterans Day on November 11 this
month, I will honor a veteran-owned
small business for each of the 10 days
the Senate is in legislative session. The
personal sacrifices made by America’s
veterans have protected the very free-
doms and values that give each of us
and our children the ability to achieve
the American dream. The skills vet-
erans learn as members of the military
are invaluable and undoubtedly con-
tribute to Idaho’s flourishing veteran
business community. I am proud of the
sacrifices veterans have made to pro-
tect our country and that they are
choosing Idaho to call home when they
complete their service in the military.
As your Senator from the great State
of Idaho, it is my pleasure to recognize
Popular Patch in Hayden as the Vet-
eran-owned Idaho Small Business of
the Day for November 6, 2019. Don
McGrogan joined the U.S. Navy at age
18 and served for the next 26 years,
bearing witness to the Cuban missile
crisis, the Dominican Republic occupa-
tion, and the Vietnam war. Over the
course of his Navy career, McGrogan
collected more than 1,000 military
patches as a hobby. Upon reentering ci-
vilian life, he drew inspiration from his
experiences in the Navy and opened
McGrogan’s Patch Designs, a small
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.009 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6446 November 6, 2019
business dedicated to preserving Amer-
ica’s history. Recently, McGrogan
merged his business with his
grandson’s company, Popular Patch,
where he works as a business partner
with his son and grandson.
Popular Patch’s goal is to become
the world’s foremost military patch
business by replicating designs for each
U.S. military patch ever made. The
company has an inventory of more
than 8,000 military patches, and its se-
lection of Navy patches is one of the
largest in the world. The company also
creates custom patches using original
designs, including patches for hunters,
fishermen, bikers, and zombie fans. Its
designs are popular among veterans,
collectors, and actors, such as Holly-
wood actors in ‘‘Saving Private Ryan’’
and ‘‘Clear and Present Danger.’’
Congratulations to Dan McGrogan
and all of the employees at Popular
Patch for being selected as the Vet-
eran-owned Idaho Small Business of
the Day for November 6, 2019. You
make our great State proud, and I look
forward to your continued growth and
success.∑
f
REMEMBERING ARTURO COBO
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today, I
honor the life and legacy of Cuban-
American, Arturo Cobo, who died on
Sunday, October 27, 2019, at the Lower
Keys Medical Center in Key West, FL.
Arturo, a beloved south Florida resi-
dent, founded the Transit Home in Key
West, a sanctuary for Cuban refugees
fleeing the country’s tyrannical regime
by boat and raft. Arturo fled Cuba in
1960 to escape Fidel Castro’s com-
munist revolution but returned to
Cuba in 1961 to fight in Brigade 2506
during the Bay of Pigs. After being im-
prisoned, Arturo returned to the
United States in 1962 and dedicated the
rest of his life to supporting Cuban ref-
ugees and fighting for a democratic
Cuba. The Transit Home not only pro-
vided a safe haven for Cuban refugees,
but also provided hope for a new life for
them in a free society. All who came to
the Transit Home received food, cloth-
ing, and assistance to help rebuild
their lives in America.
I pay tribute to Arturo’s life with im-
mense gratitude for his invaluable
work during such difficult cir-
cumstances and for his dedication to
the South Florida community.∑
f
RECOGNIZING GLOBAL FREIGHT &
COMMERCE LLC
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship, it is
my privilege to honor small businesses
that embody the entrepreneurial spirit
of our American economy. I am proud
to recognize Global Freight & Com-
merce of Jacksonville, FL—a veteran-
owned small business—as we celebrate
this National Veterans Small Business
Week.
Following his retirement from the
U.S. Army in 2014, founder Jesus Garay
started Global Freight & Commerce
using the precision and skill gained
from more than 20 years of military ex-
perience. During his years of Active
Duty, Jesus specialized in strategic op-
erations and completed six combat
tours in Iraq and Bosnia. The Armed
Forces of the United States provides
individuals, such as Jesus, with leader-
ship skills that are practically applica-
ble to entrepreneurial pursuits. Be-
cause of Jesus’s leadership experience,
Global Freight & Commerce has be-
come a successful, 100 percent owner-
operated trucking, logistics, and trans-
portation company. This business not
only provides quality service but also
makes a dedicated effort to extend dig-
nified employment opportunities to our
nation’s veterans.
Through its website, Global Freight
& Commerce assists semi-truck owner-
operators with the buying and selling
process of their vehicles, a feature that
enables owner-operators to gain inde-
pendence and grow a potential fleet of
vehicles. Additionally, Global Freight
& Commerce makes the safety of its
drivers and those around them a pri-
ority. It follows national safety proto-
cols in all operations to provide the
best, and safest, service possible for its
customers.
A member of the Jacksonville Cham-
ber of Commerce, Global Freight &
Commerce is also involved in the com-
munity through events such as job
fairs and conferences. These commu-
nity events provide leadership training
to assist and develop the local work-
force. Such efforts are valuable to the
Jacksonville economy as they help to
provide skilled and reliable employees.
Even after leaving the service, our
Nation’s veterans continue to serve our
country. Making up nearly 10 percent
of all businesses in the United States,
veteran-owned small businesses ensure
that our unique economy remains ro-
bust. Veteran-owned businesses like
Global Freight & Commerce are exam-
ples of the talent and dedication of our
Nation’s veterans. This National Vet-
erans Small Business Week, I would
like to thank Jesus Garay for his serv-
ice and congratulate him on the cre-
ation of a successful small business. I
look forward to watching Global
Freight & Commerce’s continued
growth and success.∑
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 4842. An act to authorize the Sec-
retary of State to provide funds for a United
States pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3103. A communication from the Senior
Advisor, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Inspector General,
Department of Health and Human Services,
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 30, 2019; to the Committee
on Finance.
EC–3104. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, General Law, Ethics,
and Regulation, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to a vacancy in the position of Inspec-
tor General, Department of Treasury re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 31, 2019; to the Committee
on Finance.
EC–3105. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Information Re-
porting for Certain Life Insurance Contract
Transactions and Modifications to the
Transfer for Valuable Consideration Rules’’
(RIN1545–BO49) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 30, 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3106. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; End-Stage Renal Dis-
ease Prospective Payment System’’
(RIN0938–AT70) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 5, 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3107. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare and Medicaid Programs; CY 2020
Home Health Prospective Payment System
Rate Update; Home Health Value-Based Pur-
chasing Model; Home Health Quality Report-
ing Requirements; and Home Infusion Ther-
apy Requirements’’ (RIN0938–AT68) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 5, 2019; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–3108. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; Changes to Hospital
Outpatient Prospective Payment and Ambu-
latory Surgical Center Payment Systems
and Quality Reporting Programs’’ (RIN0938–
AT74) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–3109. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; CY 2020 Revisions to
Payment Politics under the Physician Fee
Schedule and Other Changes to Part B Pay-
ment Policies’’ (RIN0938–AT72) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
November 5, 2019; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–3110. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0104 - 2019–0107); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–3111. A communication from the White
House Liaison, Department of Education,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.019 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6447
November 6, 2019
a vacancy in the position of Assistant Sec-
retary, Office of Special Education and Re-
habilitative Services, Department of Edu-
cation, received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 30, 2019; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–3112. A communication from the White
House Liaison, Department of Education,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a vacancy in the position of Commissioner,
Rehabilitative Services Administrative, De-
partment of Education, received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 30,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3113. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Administrative Simplification: Rescinding
the Adoption of the Standard Unique Health
Plan Identifier and Other Entity Identifier’’
(RIN0938–AT42) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 29, 2019;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3114. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Benefits Pay-
able in Terminated Single-Employer Plans;
Interest Assumptions for Paying Benefits’’
(29 CFR Part 4022) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 29,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3115. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Visas: In-
eligibility Based on Public Charge Grounds’’
(RIN1400–AE87) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 25, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
EC–3116. A communication from the Execu-
tive Director, National Mining Hall of Fame
and Museum, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the Museum’s 2018 annual report and finan-
cial audit; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
EC–3117. A communication from the Chief
of the Regulatory Coordination Division,
Citizenship and Immigration Services, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Adjustment to Premium Processing
Fee’’ (RIN1615–ZB81) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 31,
2019; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–3118. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Uni-
formed Services Employment and Reemploy-
ment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) Quarterly
Report to Congress; Fourth Quarter of Fiscal
Year 2019’’; to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs.
EC–3119. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Regulation Policy and Manage-
ment, Department of Veterans Affairs, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Center for Innovation for Care and
Payment’’ (RIN2900–AQ56) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 31, 2019; to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 1874. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to require the Administrator of
General Services to procure the most life-
cycle cost effective and energy efficiency
lighting products and to issue guidance on
the efficiency, effectiveness, and economy of
those products, and for other purposes (Rept.
No. 116–157).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON for the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
* Joshua A. Deahl, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Dis-
trict of Columbia Court of Appeals for the
term of fifteen years.
* Deborah J. Israel, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Su-
perior Court of the District of Columbia for
the term of fifteen years.
* Andrea L. Hertzfeld, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Su-
perior Court of the District of Columbia for
the term of fifteen years.
* Robert Anthony Dixon, of the District of
Columbia, to be United States Marshal for
the Superior Court of the District of Colum-
bia for the term of four years.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 2787. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to require reporting for
qualified opportunity funds, to make modi-
fications to opportunity zones, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. JONES,
Mr. KAINE, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. PORTMAN, Ms. SINEMA,
and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 2788. A bill to amend the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
transfer certain funds to the 1974 United
Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 2789. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 and title 17, United States
Code, to extend expiring provisions relating
to the retransmission of signals of television
broadcast stations, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mrs.
MURRAY):
S. 2790. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Act of 1986 to strengthen the earned in-
come tax credit and expand eligibility for
childless individuals, homeless youth, and
youth formerly in foster care; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. ROMNEY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr. HAWLEY,
and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 2791. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide that sums in the
Thrift Savings Fund may not be invested in
securities that are listed on certain foreign
exchanges, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 2792. A bill to amend the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
to establish a discretionary spending limit
for infrastructure spending; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. KING:
S. 2793. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to require coverage with-
out a deductible of certain primary care
services by high deductible health plans; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself and Mrs.
SHAHEEN):
S. 2794. A bill to provide for the creation of
the Missing Armed Forces Personnel Records
Collection at the National Archives, to re-
quire the expeditious public transmission to
the Archivist and public disclosure of Miss-
ing Armed Forces Personnel records, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 2795. A bill to designate the community-
based outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Gilbert, Arizona, as the
‘‘Staff Sergeant Alexander W. Conrad Vet-
erans Affairs Health Care Clinic’’; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR):
S. 2796. A bill to expedite disaster assist-
ance to States, insular areas, units of gen-
eral local government, and Indian tribes
under a community development block grant
disaster recovery program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
MARKEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. COONS, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. WYDEN, and Mr. KAINE):
S. 2797. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to require the Secretary
of Homeland Security to parole into the
United States certain relatives of current
and former members of the Armed Forces,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 2798. A bill to ensure whistleblowers who
are Government employees or contractors
receive adequate protection; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
S. 2799. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy and the Secretary of the Interior to
establish a joint Nexus of Energy and Water
Sustainability Office, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Ms. SINEMA,
Mr. WICKER, and Ms. CANTWELL):
S. 2800. A bill to authorize programs of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN):
S. 2801. A bill to strengthen the United
States Interagency Council on Homelessness;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Ms. CANTWELL:
S. 2802. A bill to amend the Marine Mam-
mal Protection Act of 1972 to reauthorize
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.013 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6448 November 6, 2019
and modify the John H. Prescott Marine
Mammal Rescue and Response Grant Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
GRASSLEY):
S. 2803. A bill to provide Federal housing
assistance on behalf of youths who are aging
out of foster care, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 2804. A bill to promote conservation, im-
prove public land management, and provide
for sensible development in Pershing County,
Nevada, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, and Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 2805. A bill to improve transit-oriented
development financing, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
BOOZMAN):
S. 2806. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to expand authority for certain
qualifying work-study activities for purposes
of the educational assistance programs of
the Department of Veterans Affairs to in-
clude outreach services provided through
congressional offices, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. KING, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mr.
MENENDEZ):
S. Res. 408. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that Members of Con-
gress and their staffs, employees of the Exec-
utive Office of the President and executive
branch agencies, and the President of the
United States have a duty to protect the
identities of whistleblowers and safeguard
whistleblowers from retaliation; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. MURPHY):
S. Res. 409. A resolution requesting infor-
mation on Turkey’s human rights practices
in Syria pursuant to section 502B(c) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 12
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 12, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve ac-
cess to health care through expanded
health savings accounts, and for other
purposes.
S. 170
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 170, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to limit
the amount of certain qualified con-
servation contributions.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 206, a bill to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal to the female
telephone operators of the Army Signal
Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
430, a bill to extend the Secure Rural
Schools and Community Self-Deter-
mination Act of 2000.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 460, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the ex-
clusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 473
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
473, a bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to include certain Federal
positions within the definition of law
enforcement officer for retirement pur-
poses, and for other purposes.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 518, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to provide
for Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treatment
items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 565
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Florida (Mr. SCOTT) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 565, a bill to require the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget to submit to Congress an
annual report on projects that are over
budget and behind schedule, and for
other purposes.
S. 604
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 604, a bill to limit the authority of
States to tax certain income of em-
ployees for employment duties per-
formed in other States.
S. 642
At the request of Mr. ALEXANDER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 642, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to Master Sergeant
Rodrick ‘‘Roddie’’ Edmonds in recogni-
tion of his heroic actions during World
War II.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 655, a bill to impose additional re-
strictions on tobacco flavors for use in
e-cigarettes.
S. 670
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 670, a bill to make
daylight savings time permanent, and
for other purposes.
S. 685
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 685, a bill to amend the Inspector
General Act of 1978 relative to the pow-
ers of the Department of Justice In-
spector General.
S. 743
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
743, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the soldiers of the 5307th
Composite Unit (Provisional), com-
monly known as ‘‘Merrill’s Maraud-
ers’’, in recognition of their bravery
and outstanding service in the jungles
of Burma during World War II.
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 743,
supra.
At the request of Mr. BROWN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
743, supra.
S. 765
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 765, a bill to promote neutrality,
simplicity, and fairness in the taxation
of digital goods and digital services.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Sen-
ator from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 851, a
bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to
issue an occupational safety and health
standard that requires covered employ-
ers within the health care and social
service industries to develop and im-
plement a comprehensive workplace vi-
olence prevention plan, and for other
purposes.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 901, a bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 to support indi-
viduals with younger onset Alzheimer’s
disease.
S. 907
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 907, a bill to preserve open
competition and Federal Government
neutrality towards the labor relations
of Federal Government contractors on
Federal and federally funded construc-
tion projects, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.026 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6449
November 6, 2019
S. 966
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 966, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to modernize
the physician self-referral prohibitions
to promote care coordination in the
merit-based incentive payment system
and to facilitate physician practice
participation in alternative payment
models under the Medicare program,
and for other purposes.
S. 1087
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1087, a bill to amend the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act to
make changes with respect to water
quality certification, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1267
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. REED) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1267, a bill to establish
within the Smithsonian Institution the
National Museum of the American
Latino, and for other purposes.
S. 1390
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1390, a bill to require plans for
military installations for full military
funeral honors for veterans at such in-
stallations.
S. 1437
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Flor-
ida (Mr. SCOTT) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1437, a bill to amend title XI
of the Social Security Act to require
that direct-to-consumer advertise-
ments for prescription drugs and bio-
logical products include truthful and
non-misleading pricing information.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) and the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to the United States Army Rangers
Veterans of World War II in recogni-
tion of their extraordinary service dur-
ing World War II.
S. 1781
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1781, a bill to authorize appropria-
tions for the Department of State for
fiscal years 2020 through 2022 to provide
assistance to El Salvador, Guatemala,
and Honduras through bilateral com-
pacts to increase protection of women
and children in their homes and com-
munities and reduce female homicides,
domestic violence, and sexual assault.
S. 1903
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1903, a bill to establish an inter-
agency One Health Program, and for
other purposes.
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2001, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to Willie O’Ree, in
recognition of his extraordinary con-
tributions and commitment to hockey,
inclusion, and recreational oppor-
tunity.
S. 2027
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2027, a bill to amend
title 38, United States Code, to expand
the scope of the Advisory Committee
on Minority Veterans, and for other
purposes.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2085, a bill to authorize the
Secretary of Education to award grants
to eligible entities to carry out edu-
cational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) and the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2216, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to formally
recognize caregivers of veterans, notify
veterans and caregivers of clinical de-
terminations relating to eligibility for
caregiver programs, and temporarily
extend benefits for veterans who are
determined ineligible for the family
caregiver program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2321
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2321, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint a
coin in commemoration of the 100th
anniversary of the establishment of
Negro Leagues baseball.
S. 2377
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE), the Senator from Indi-
ana (Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2377, a bill to apply the
Medicaid asset verification program to
all applicants for, and recipients of,
medical assistance in all States and
territories, and for other purposes.
S. 2427
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the names of the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2427, a bill to
amend title 31, United States Code, to
require the Secretary of the Treasury
to mint and issue quarter dollars in
commemoration of the 19th Amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 2473
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2473, a bill to extend cer-
tain provisions of the Caribbean Basin
Economic Recovery Act until Sep-
tember 30, 2030, and for other purposes.
S. 2483
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2483, a bill to counter ef-
forts by foreign governments to pursue,
harass, or otherwise persecute individ-
uals for political and other unlawful
motives overseas, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2590
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2590, a bill to protect the dignity of
fetal remains, and for other purposes.
S. 2625
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2625, a bill to authorize the ad-
mission of a limited number of Kurdish
Syrians and other Syrian partners as
special immigrants, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2662
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2662, a bill to amend sec-
tions 111, 169, and 171 of the Clean Air
Act to clarify when a physical change
in, or change in the method of oper-
ation of, a stationary source con-
stitutes a modification or construc-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 2668
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2668, a bill to establish a program for
research, development, and demonstra-
tion of solar energy technologies, and
for other purposes.
S. 2680
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2680, a bill to impose
sanctions with respect to foreign sup-
port for Palestinian terrorism, and for
other purposes.
S. 2690
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2690, a bill to reduce mass violence,
strengthen mental health collaboration
in communities, improve school safety,
and for other purposes.
S. 2701
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.028 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6450 November 6, 2019
were added as cosponsors of S. 2701, a
bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to list fentanyl-related
substances as schedule I controlled
substances.
S. 2742
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the name of the Senator from Okla-
homa (Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2742, a bill to require
the Director of the Bureau of Prisons
to be appointed by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate.
S. 2745
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2745, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit dis-
crimination by abortion against an un-
born child on the basis of Down syn-
drome.
S. 2770
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2770, a bill to direct the
Attorney General to make grants to
States that have in place a law pro-
viding for the rights of sexual assault
survivors, and for other purposes.
S. CON. RES. 5
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Con. Res. 5, a concurrent
resolution supporting the Local Radio
Freedom Act.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the names of the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) and the Senator
from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 98, a res-
olution establishing the Congressional
Gold Star Family Fellowship Program
for the placement in offices of Senators
of children, spouses, and siblings of
members of the Armed Forces who are
hostile casualties or who have died
from a training-related injury.
S. RES. 371
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 371, a resolution reaffirming the
support of the United States for the
people of the Republic of South Sudan
and calling on all parties to uphold
their commitments to peace and dia-
logue as outlined in the 2018 revitalized
peace agreement.
S. RES. 395
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Arkan-
sas (Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 395, a
resolution recognizing the 40th anni-
versary of the Iran Hostage Crisis, and
for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 2801. A bill to strengthen the
United States Interagency Council on
Homelessness; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, along with
Senator COLLINS, I am reintroducing
legislation that would eliminate the
sunset date for the United States Inter-
agency Council on Homelessness (the
Council) so that this agency can fur-
ther build upon its success in helping
to prevent and end homelessness.
The Council was launched under the
Reagan Administration as part of the
landmark McKinney-Vento Homeless
Assistance Act of 1987. Since then, it
has worked across the Federal govern-
ment and private sector to coordinate
homeless assistance nationally. In 2009,
the Homeless Emergency Assistance
and Rapid Transition to Housing, or
HEARTH Act, which I introduced along
with Senator COLLINS and others, ex-
panded the Council’s role to work with
stakeholders to develop a national
strategic plan to end homelessness,
which has guided its work to develop
effective strategies to prevent and end
homelessness.
Since 2010 when this national stra-
tegic plan was first developed, the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (HUD) reports that overall
homelessness has decreased by 13%,
chronic homelessness by 16%, and fam-
ily homelessness by 25%. In addition,
we have seen veterans’ homelessness
drop by 49%. This progress is not only
a result of the more than $600 million
federal investment in housing and sup-
portive services through programs like
HUD-VASH, but is also because of the
direction the Council provides to the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
and HUD, as well as public housing
agencies administering assistance at
the local level. Specifically, the Coun-
cil helps diverse partners align their
resources, efforts, goals, and measures
of success for serving homeless vet-
erans. According to the Council, it
‘‘has led a process to confirm that 78
communities and 3 entire states have
effectively ended Veteran homeless-
ness. 35 states now have at least one
community that has ended Veteran
homelessness. Some recent confirma-
tions include: Abilene, Texas, Lex-
ington, Kentucky, Little Rock, Arkan-
sas, Poplar Bluff, Missouri, and the 71
counties in Mississippi that make up
the Mississippi Balance of State Con-
tinuum of Care.’’ In order to further
these efforts and also tackle veterans’
homelessness on the front end, the Sen-
ate’s fiscal year 2020 Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies (THUD) Appropria-
tions bill includes language I authored
directing the Council to improve the
coordination between the Department
of Defense, the VA, the Department of
Labor, and HUD in order to prevent
servicemembers from being discharged
into homelessness.
In addition to addressing homeless-
ness in our communities, the Council
has also helped to save money. We
know that people experiencing home-
lessness are more likely to use expen-
sive health care services and spend
more time in incarceration—which are
extremely costly to taxpayers, States,
and local governments. According to
the National Alliance to End Homeless-
ness, ‘‘based on 22 different studies
from across the nation providing per-
manent supportive housing to chron-
ically homeless people creates net sav-
ings of $4,800 per person per year,
through reduced spending on jails, hos-
pitals, shelters, and other emergency
services.’’
The Council has extended these esti-
mated savings by identifying and tai-
loring cost-effective solutions that re-
duce the use of health care services, as
well as recidivism, for individuals expe-
riencing chronic homelessness. In fis-
cal year 2019 alone, the Council’s mod-
est $3.6 million budget catalyzed more
than $6 billion in combined Federal re-
sources that aim to address homeless-
ness. The Council develops national
strategies that inform the work and
improve the cost-effectiveness of pro-
grams administered by 19 Federal agen-
cies, and as a result, communities and
States are able to utilize housing,
health, education, and labor funding
more strategically and effectively.
In our current budgetary environ-
ment we must have a wise and creative
arm that helps our communities maxi-
mize resources and opportunities where
possible, ensuring we are actually ad-
dressing homelessness, and not contrib-
uting to it. The Council is proof that
the government can work and save
money in the process, and our bipar-
tisan legislation ensures that the
Council’s doors remain open until there
truly is an end to homelessness nation-
wide.
I thank the National Alliance to End
Homelessness, the Rhode Island Coali-
tion for the Homeless,
HousingWorksRI, Council of Large
Public Housing Authorities, A Way
Home America, Community Solutions
International, the National Low In-
come Housing Coalition, the National
Coalition for Homeless Veterans, Na-
tional Law Center on Homelessness and
Poverty, Funders Together to End
Homelessness, True Colors United, the
Children’s Defense Fund, the National
Housing Trust, the National Health
Care for the Homeless Council, the
Local Initiatives Support Corporation,
National Alliance on Mental Illness,
Consortium for Citizens with Disabil-
ities Housing Task Force, the National
Association of Housing and Redevelop-
ment Officials, the Public Housing Au-
thorities Directors Association,
LeadingAge, Heartland Alliance, Na-
tional Housing Conference, the Na-
tional AIDS Housing Coalition, Cov-
enant House International, the Forum
for Youth Investment, the Housing As-
sistance Council, Volunteers of Amer-
ica, the Corporation for Supportive
Housing, the Technical Assistance Col-
laborative, and the National Coalition
for the Homeless for their support. I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.030 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6451
November 6, 2019
urge our colleagues to join Senator
COLLINS and me in supporting this leg-
islation.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 408—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS AND THEIR STAFFS,
EMPLOYEES OF THE EXECUTIVE
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND
EXECUTIVE BRANCH AGENCIES,
AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES HAVE A DUTY
TO PROTECT THE IDENTITIES OF
WHISTLEBLOWERS AND SAFE-
GUARD WHISTLEBLOWERS FROM
RETALIATION
Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. KING, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HARRIS,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mr. MENENDEZ)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs:
S. RES. 408
Whereas the United States has historically
acknowledged a duty of individuals who
serve the United States to report mis-
conduct, fraud, and violations of law, as
demonstrated by the first whistleblower leg-
islation in the United States, which was
passed unanimously by the Continental Con-
gress on July 30, 1778 and read, ‘‘Resolved,
That it is the duty of all persons in the serv-
ice of the United States, as well as all other
the inhabitants thereof, to give the earliest
information to Congress or other proper au-
thority of any misconduct, frauds or mis-
demeanors committed by any officers or per-
sons in the service of these states, which
may come to their knowledge’’ (legislation
of July 30, 1778, reprinted in Journals of the
Continental Congress, 1774–1789, ed. Wor-
thington C. Ford et al. (Washington, DC,
1904–37), 11:732);
Whereas the duty to report misconduct,
fraud, and violations of law remains, irre-
spective of the motives of a whistleblower,
and, therefore, impugning the motives of
whistleblowers has no relevance to the pub-
lic interest in exposing and correcting im-
proper or illegal conduct;
Whereas, for each of the past 7 years, in-
cluding most recently in Senate Resolution
194, 116th Congress, agreed to July 23, 2019,
the Senate has recognized that ‘‘whistle-
blowers risk their careers, jobs, and reputa-
tions by reporting waste, fraud, and abuse to
the proper authorities’’ and ‘‘serve the public
interest by ensuring that the United States
remains an ethical and safe place’’;
Whereas a whistleblower lawfully filed a
complaint on August 12, 2019, with the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity, who determined that the complaint ap-
peared ‘‘credible’’ and involved a matter of
‘‘urgent concern’’ in accordance with section
17(d)(5) of the Central Intelligence Agency
Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3517(d)(5)) (commonly
known as the ‘‘Intelligence Community
Whistleblower Protection Act of 1998’’); and
Whereas 90 former national security offi-
cials who served in Democratic and Repub-
lican administrations wrote an open letter to
the people of the United States stating,
‘‘Whatever one’s view of the matters dis-
cussed in the whistleblower’s complaint, all
Americans should be united in demanding
that all branches of our government and all
outlets of our media protect this whistle-
blower and his or her identity. Simply put,
he or she has done what our law demands;
now he or she deserves our protection.’’:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) appreciates employees and contractors,
working on behalf of the taxpayers of the
United States, who ‘‘blow the whistle’’ to the
appropriate authorities by honest and good
faith reporting of misconduct, fraud, mis-
demeanors, and other crimes;
(2) acknowledges the contributions of whis-
tleblowers to combat abuse, fraud, and viola-
tions of laws and regulations of the United
States that have helped to safeguard the na-
tional security of the United States, democ-
racy, and the rule of law in the United
States; and
(3) recognizes that the duty affirmed by
Congress since the founding of the United
States to report misconduct, fraud, and vio-
lations of law calls for a corresponding duty
of Members of Congress and their staff, em-
ployees of the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent and executive branch agencies, and the
President of the United States to—
(A) protect the identities of whistleblowers
who report abuse, fraud, and violations of
laws and regulations of the United States;
and
(B) safeguard whistleblowers from retalia-
tion.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 409—RE-
QUESTING INFORMATION ON
TURKEY’S HUMAN RIGHTS PRAC-
TICES IN SYRIA PURSUANT TO
SECTION 502B(C) OF THE FOR-
EIGN ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1961
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr.
MURPHY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 409
Resolved,
SECTION 1. REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON
TURKEY’S HUMAN RIGHTS PRAC-
TICES IN SYRIA.
(a) STATEMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
30 days after the date of the adoption of this
resolution, the Secretary of State shall, pur-
suant to section 502B(c) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2304(c)), trans-
mit to the Committee on Foreign Relations
of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives a
statement, prepared with the assistance of
the Assistant Secretary of State for Democ-
racy, Human Rights, and Labor and the Of-
fice of the Legal Adviser, with respect to
Turkey.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The statement submitted
under subsection (a) shall include the fol-
lowing elements:
(1) All available credible information con-
cerning alleged violations of internationally
recognized human rights by the Government
of Turkey, its armed forces, and associated
groups and persons, including the denial of
the right to life in the context of their ac-
tivities in Syria caused by indiscriminate or
disproportionate operations, the infliction of
civilian casualties, and the displacement of
civilian populations;
(2) A description of the steps the United
States Government has taken—
(A) to promote respect for and observance
of human rights as part of Turkey’s activi-
ties in Syria and discourage any practices
that are inimical to internationally recog-
nized human rights; and
(B) to publicly or privately call attention
to, and disassociate the United States and
any security assistance provided for Turkey
from, such practices.
(3) An assessment, notwithstanding any
such practices, whether extraordinary cir-
cumstances exist that necessitate a continu-
ation of security assistance for Turkey and,
if so, a description of the circumstances and
the extent to which the assistance should be
continued (subject to such conditions as Con-
gress may impose under section 502B of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2304)).
(4) Other information, including—
(A) an assessment from the Secretary of
State of the likelihood that United States
security assistance, as defined in section
502B(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
(22 U.S.C. 2304(d)), has been and will be used
in Syria;
(B) a description of the extent to which the
activities of the Government of Turkey, its
armed forces, and associated groups or per-
sons have—
(i) caused, assisted, or resulted in the re-
lease of ISIS fighters, supporters, and other
extremists from detention; or
(ii) promoted conditions that support, as-
sist or have resulted or could result in a
strengthening of the military capabilities of
such fighters and extremists within Syria,
including the practical control over terri-
tory;
(C) a description of the extent to which
such strengthening of such capabilities of
ISIS and other extremist groups and persons
could increase the threat to the United
States, United States citizens, and United
States interests, both in the United States
and abroad;
(D) a description of efforts by the Sec-
retary of State and other United States offi-
cials to persuade the Government of Turkey
to cease its activities in Syria and commit-
ments to support United States and multi-
lateral efforts to comprehensively defeat
ISIS within Syria;
(E) a determination whether Turkey’s pur-
chase and acceptance of delivery of the S-400
missile system from the Russian Federation
constitutes a ‘‘significant transaction’’ pur-
suant to section 231 of the Countering Amer-
ica’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22
U.S.C. 9525);
(F) a description of any actions by the
Government of Turkey to forcibly repatriate
Syrian refugees; and
(G) an assessment of whether the Govern-
ment of Turkey is blocking humanitarian
aid from reaching communities in need of as-
sistance in northeast Syria.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have 7
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, November 06, 2019, at 9
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.032 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6452 November 6, 2019
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Wednesday, November
06, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the following nominations: Joshua
A. Deahl, to be an Associate Judge of
the District of Columbia Court of Ap-
peals, Deborah J. Israel, and Andrea L.
Hertzfeld, both to be an Associate
Judge of the Superior Court of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and Robert Anthony
Dixon, to be United States Marshal for
the Superior Court of the District of
Columbia, Department of Justice.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, November
6, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, November
6, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, No-
vember 6, 2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct
a closed briefing.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
The Special Committee on Aging is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, November
6, 2019, at 9.30 a.m., to conduct a closed
briefing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY
The Subcommittee on Energy of the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, November 6, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that Lucia
Simonelli, an AAAS fellow in my of-
fice, be granted floor privileges for the
remainder of this Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Jesse Oney, an
intern in my office, be granted floor
privileges for the remainder of the Con-
gress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL HEALTH LITERACY
MONTH
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Judiciary
Committee be discharged from further
consideration of S. Res. 396 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The senior legislative clerk read the
resolution, as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 396) designating Octo-
ber 2019 as ‘‘National Health Literacy
Month’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I fur-
ther ask unanimous consent that the
resolution be agreed to, the preamble
be agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 396) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of October 31,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
NOVEMBER 7, 2019
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Thursday, Novem-
ber 7; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Rudofsky nomination
under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:34 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
November 7, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate November 6, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
DANIELLE J. HUNSAKER, OF OREGON, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A06NO6.035 S06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1401
November 6, 2019
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday, No-
vember 7, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
NOVEMBER 13
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine unprece-
dented migration at the United States
southern border, focusing on the year
in review.
SD–342
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider S. 10, to re-
quire the Inter-Agency Task Force on
Harmful Algal Blooms and Hypoxia to
develop a plan for reducing, mitigating,
and controlling harmful algal blooms
and hypoxia in South Florida, S. 481, to
encourage States to require the instal-
lation of residential carbon monoxide
detectors in homes, S. 999, to provide
for Federal coordination of activities
supporting sustainable chemistry, S.
1069, to require the Secretary of Com-
merce, acting through the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, to establish
a constituent-driven program to pro-
vide a digital information platform ca-
pable of efficiently integrating coastal
data with decision-support tools, train-
ing, and best practices and to support
collection of priority coastal
geospatial data to inform and improve
local, State, regional, and Federal ca-
pacities to manage the coastal region,
S. 1640, to require compliant flame
mitigation devices to be used on port-
able fuel containers for flammable liq-
uid fuels, S. 1982, to improve efforts to
combat marine debris, S. 2330, to
amend the Ted Stevens Olympic and
Amateur Sports Act to provide for con-
gressional oversight of the board of di-
rectors of the United States Olympic
and Paralympic Committee and to pro-
tect amateur athletes from emotional,
physical, and sexual abuse, S. 2346, to
improve the Fishery Resource Disaster
Relief program of the National Marine
Fisheries Service, S. 2429, to reauthor-
ize the Coral Reef Conservation Act of
2000 and to establish the United States
Coral Reef Task Force, S. 2453, to assist
in the conservation of the North Atlan-
tic right whale by supporting and pro-
viding financial resources for North At-
lantic right whale conservation pro-
grams and projects of persons with ex-
pertise required for the conservation of
North Atlantic right whales, S. 2472, to
redesignate the NASA John H. Glenn
Research Center at Plum Brook Sta-
tion, Ohio, as the NASA John H. Glenn
Research Center at the Neil A. Arm-
strong Test Facility, S. 2525, to require
the Director of the National Institute
of Standards and Technology to con-
duct a study of personal protective
equipment worn by firefighters to de-
termine the prevalence and concentra-
tion of per-and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, S. 2535, to require the Sec-
retary of Commerce to conduct an as-
sessment and analysis relating to the
decline in the business formation rate
in the United States, S. 2597, to require
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration to make certain oper-
ational models available to the public,
S. 2693, to improve oversight by the
Federal Communications Commission
of the wireless and broadcast emer-
gency alert systems, S. 2775, to im-
prove the cyber workforce of the
United States, S. 2782, to improve pro-
visions of law relating to sexual har-
assment and assault prevention at the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, S. 2789, to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 and title
17, United States Code, to extend expir-
ing provisions relating to the retrans-
mission of signals of television broad-
cast stations, S. 2800, to authorize pro-
grams of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, S. 2805, to im-
prove transit-oriented development fi-
nancing, H.R. 3153, to direct the Direc-
tor of the National Science Foundation
to support research on opioid addic-
tion, an original bill entitled, ‘‘Marine
Mammal Research and Response Act of
2019’’, the nominations of Ian Paul
Steff, of Indiana, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce and Director Gen-
eral of the United States and Foreign
Commercial Service, Michael Graham,
of Kansas, to be a Member of the Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board for
a term expiring December 31, 2020, and
to be a Member of the National Trans-
portation Safety Board for a term ex-
piring December 31, 2025, Carl Whitney
Bentzel, of Maryland, to be a Federal
Maritime Commissioner, Theodore
Rokita, of Indiana, to be a Director of
the Amtrak Board of Directors, and
routine lists in the Coast Guard.
SH–216
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine preserving
and expanding clean, reliable nuclear
power, focusing on United States com-
mercial nuclear reactor performance
trends and safety initiatives.
SD–406
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine the response
to lung illnesses and rising youth elec-
tronic cigarette use.
SD–430
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
11 a.m.
Joint Economic Committee
To hold hearings to examine the eco-
nomic outlook.
SH–216
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:06 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M06NO8.000 E06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1212
Wednesday, November 6, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6411–S6452
Measures Introduced: Twenty bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2787–2806, and
S. Res. 408–409. Pages S6447–48
Measures Reported:
S. 1874, to amend title 40, United States Code,
to require the Administrator of General Services to
procure the most life-cycle cost effective and energy
efficiency lighting products and to issue guidance on
the efficiency, effectiveness, and economy of those
products, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–157) Page S6447
Measures Passed:
National Health Literacy Month: Committee on
the Judiciary was discharged from further consider-
ation of S. Res. 396, designating October 2019 as
‘‘National Health Literacy Month’’, and the resolu-
tion was then agreed to. Page S6452
Rudofsky Nomination—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of the nomination of Lee Philip
Rudofsky, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Arkansas. Pages S6413–21
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 51 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 346), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S6420–21
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Thursday,
November 7, 2019, under the previous order of
Tuesday, November 5, 2019. Page S6452
Wilson Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Jennifer Philpott
Wilson, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Pennsylvania. Pages S6421–34
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 89 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 347), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6421
Nardini Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of William Joseph
Nardini, of Connecticut, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit. Pages S6435–43
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 87 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 349), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6435
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 73 yeas to 17 nays (Vote No. EX. 348),
Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit. Pages S6434–35
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S6412–13, S6446
Executive Communications: Pages S6446–47
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S6447
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6448–50
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6450–51
Additional Statements: Pages S6445–46
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S6451–52
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6452
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—349) Pages S6420–21, S6435
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:34 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
November 7, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6452.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Budget: Committee ordered favorably
reported S. 2765, to improve Federal fiscal controls
and the congressional budget process, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06NO9.REC D06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1213
November 6, 2019
ENERGY LEGISLATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Sub-
committee on Energy concluded a hearing to exam-
ine S. 876, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005
to require the Secretary of Energy to establish a pro-
gram to prepare veterans for careers in the energy in-
dustry, including the solar, wind, cybersecurity, and
other low-carbon emissions sectors or zero-emissions
sectors of the energy industry, S. 1890, to provide
for grants for energy efficiency improvements and re-
newable energy improvements at public school facili-
ties, S. 2425, to amend the Energy Policy and Con-
servation Act to establish the CHP Technical Assist-
ance Partnership Program, S. 2508, to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish a council to conduct
a survey and analysis of the employment figures and
demographics in the energy, energy efficiency, and
motor vehicle sectors of the United States, S. 2556,
to amend the Federal Power Act to provide energy
cybersecurity investment incentives, to establish a
grant and technical assistance program for cybersecu-
rity investments, S. 2657, to support innovation in
advanced geothermal research and development, S.
2660, to establish a grant program for wind energy
research, development, and demonstration, S. 2668,
to establish a program for research, development,
and demonstration of solar energy technologies, S.
2688, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to
establish an Office of Technology Transitions, S.
2702, to require the Secretary of Energy to establish
an integrated energy systems research, development,
and demonstration, and S. 2714, to amend the
America COMPETES Act to reauthorize the
ARPA–E program, after receiving testimony from
Senator Smith; and Daniel Simmons, Assistant Sec-
retary of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Re-
newable Energy.
GROWING AMERICAN INNOVATION NOW
ACT
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine S. 2662, to
amend sections 111, 169, and 171 of the Clean Air
Act to clarify when a physical change in, or change
in the method of operation of, a stationary source
constitutes a modification or construction, after re-
ceiving testimony from Sean Alteri, Kentucky De-
partment for Environmental Protection, Frankfort;
and Jeffrey R. Holmstead, Bracewell LLC, and John
D. Walke, Natural Resources Defense Council, both
of Washington, D.C.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee ordered favorably reported the fol-
lowing business items:
S. 2779, to establish the Federal Clearinghouse on
School Safety Best Practices, with amendments;
S. 2162, to require the Commissioner of U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection to annually hire at least
600 new Border Patrol agents, to report quarterly to
Congress on the status of the Border Patrol work-
force, and to conduct a comprehensive staffing anal-
ysis, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 2769, to eliminate or modify certain Federal
agency reporting requirements, with an amendment;
S. 1363, to authorize an AI Center of Excellence
within the General Services Administration, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 2618, to strengthen employee cost savings sug-
gestions programs within the Federal Government;
S. 2560, to amend the Federal Funding Account-
ability and Transparency Act of 2006, to require the
budget justifications and appropriation requests of
agencies be made publicly available;
S. 2353, to direct the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency to develop
guidance for firefighters and other emergency re-
sponse personnel on best practices to protect them
from exposure to PFAS and to limit and prevent the
release of PFAS into the environment;
S. 2749, to provide requirements for the .gov do-
main, with amendments;
S. 2513, to provide for joint reports by relevant
Federal agencies to Congress regarding incidents of
terrorism, with an amendment;
S. 565, to require the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget to submit to Congress an
annual report on projects that are over budget and
behind schedule, with an amendment in the nature
of a substitute;
S. 2750, to amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to authorize the Operation Stonegarden grant
program, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
H.R. 1589, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to establish chemical, biological, radio-
logical, and nuclear intelligence and information
sharing functions of the Office of Intelligence and
Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security
and to require dissemination of information analyzed
by the Department to entities with responsibilities
relating to homeland security, with an amendment
in the nature of a substitute;
H.R. 2066, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to establish the Intelligence Rotational As-
signment Program in the Department of Homeland
Security, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
H.R. 495, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to require an annual report on the Office for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06NO9.REC D06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1214 November 6, 2019
State and Local Law Enforcement, with an amend-
ment;
H.R. 135, to amend the Notification and Federal
Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of
2002 to strengthen Federal antidiscrimination laws
enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and expand accountability within the
Federal Government, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute;
S. 2712, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 430 South Knowles
Avenue in New Richmond, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Cap-
tain Robert C. Harmon and Private John R. Peirson
Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 887, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 877 East 1200 South
in Orem, Utah, as the ‘‘Jerry C. Washburn Post Of-
fice Building’’;
H.R. 1252, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 6531 Van Nuys Bou-
levard in Van Nuys, California, as the ‘‘Marilyn
Monroe Post Office’’;
H.R. 1253, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 13507 Van Nuys
Boulevard in Pacoima, California, as the ‘‘Ritchie
Valens Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 1526, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 200 Israel Road
Southeast in Tumwater, Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G.
Hewitt Post Office’’;
H.R. 1844, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 66 Grove Court in
Elgin, Illinois, as the ‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez Me-
morial Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 1972, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1100 West Kent Av-
enue in Missoula, Montana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin
Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 2151, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 7722 South Main
Street in Pine Plains, New York, as the ‘‘Senior
Chief Petty Officer Shannon M. Kent Post Office’’;
H.R. 2325, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 100 Calle Alondra in
San Juan, Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regi-
ment Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 3144, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 8520 Michigan Ave-
nue in Whittier, California, as the ‘‘Jose Ramos Post
Office Building’’;
H.R. 3314, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1750 McCulloch
Boulevard North in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, as
the ‘‘Lake Havasu City Combat Veterans Memorial
Post Office Building’’; and
The nominations of Joshua A. Deahl, to be an As-
sociate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, Deborah J. Israel, and Andrea L. Hertzfeld,
both to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court
of the District of Columbia, and Robert Anthony
Dixon, to be United States Marshal for the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia, Department of
Justice.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported H.R. 317, to reaffirm the action of the
Secretary of the Interior to take land into trust for
the benefit of the Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Mis-
sion Indians, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute.
477 PROGRAM OVERSIGHT
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded an
oversight hearing to examine the 477 program, fo-
cusing on reducing red tape while promoting em-
ployment and training opportunities in Indian coun-
try, after receiving testimony from Spike Bighorn,
Acting Deputy Bureau Director, Office of Indian
Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the
Interior; Chuck Hoskin Jr., Cherokee Nation, Tahle-
quah, Oklahoma; Ralph Andersen, Bristol Bay Na-
tive Association, Dillingham, Alaska; and Margaret
Zientek, 477 Tribal Work Group, Shawnee, Okla-
homa.
USA FREEDOM ACT
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine reauthorizing the USA FREE-
DOM Act of 2015, after receiving testimony from J.
Bradford Wiegmann, Deputy Assistant Attorney
General, and Michael J. Orlando, Deputy Assistant
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, both of
the Department of Justice; Susan Morgan, National
Security Agency; Adam I. Klein, Privacy and Civil
Liberties Oversight Board, and Elizabeth Goitein,
New York University School of Law Brennan Center
for Justice, both of Washington, D.C.; and Jamil N.
Jaffer, George Mason University Antonin Scalia Law
School, Arlington, Virginia.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Grant C.
Jaquith, of New York, and Scott J. Laurer, of Vir-
ginia, both to be a Judge of the United States Court
of Appeals for Veterans Claims, after the nominees
testified and answered questions in their own behalf.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06NO9.REC D06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1215
November 6, 2019
VETERAN SCAMS
Special Committee on Aging: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine veteran scams, focusing on pro-
tecting those who protected us, after receiving testi-
mony from Carroll Harris, Acting Inspector in
Charge, Communications, Governance and Strategy
Group, Postal Inspection Service; W. Dewayne Rich-
ardson, District Attorney, Fourth Judicial District of
Mississippi, Indianola; Ben Wells, Vet2Vet Maine,
Portland; and LaVerne Foreman, Herndon, Pennsyl-
vania.
h
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet in Pro Forma session at 1 p.m.
on Friday, November 8, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
PUTIN’S SHADOW WARRIORS
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission received a briefing on Putin’s shadow war-
riors, focusing on mercenaries, security contracting,
and the way ahead from Deborah Avant, University
of Denver Josef Korbel School of International Stud-
ies, Denver, Colorado; Dara Massicot, RAND Cor-
poration, Arlington, Virginia; and Colonel Chris-
topher T. Mayer (USA, Ret.), former Department of
Defense Director of Armed Contingency Contractor
Policies and Programs, Washington, D.C.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
NOVEMBER 7, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: to hold
hearings to examine implementation of the 2018 Farm
Bill, focusing on rural development and energy programs,
9:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine bipartisan bills to promote af-
fordable housing access and safety, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold an
oversight hearing to examine federal revenues derived
from energy development on Federal and Indian lands as
well as Federal offshore areas and programs that share
those revenues with state, local, and tribal governments,
including S. 2418, to amend the Gulf of Mexico Energy
Security Act of 2006 to modify a definition and the dis-
position and authorized uses of qualified outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues under that Act and to exempt State
and county payments under that Act from sequestration,
to provide for the distribution of certain outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues to the State of Alaska, and S. 2666,
to promote the development of renewable energy on pub-
lic land, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to receive a closed brief-
ing on Afghanistan, focusing on the way ahead, 11 a.m.,
SVC–217.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
the nominations of Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of Mis-
sissippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth
Circuit, Steven J. Menashi, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Barbara
Lagoa and Robert J. Luck, both of Florida, both to be a
United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, Syl-
via Carreno-Coll, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Puerto Rico, John M. Gallagher, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, and Sherri A. Lydon, to be United States
District Judge for the District of South Carolina, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Committee on Rules and Administration: to hold an over-
sight hearing to examine Library of Congress moderniza-
tion, 10 a.m., SR–301.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06NO9.REC D06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1216 November 6, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, November 7
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Arkansas, post-cloture. Senate will vote on confirmation
of the nominations of Lee Philip Rudofsky, and Jennifer
Philpott Wilson, to be United States District Judge for
the Middle District of Pennsylvania, at 11:45 a.m. Senate
will vote on confirmation of the nomination of William
Joseph Nardini, of Connecticut, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Second Circuit, at 1:45 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
1 p.m., Friday, November 8
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 1 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D06NO9.REC D06NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
