Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1001
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019 No. 14
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Ms. DELBENE).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 23, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable SUZAN K.
DELBENE to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
SUPPORT THE OIL REGION NA-
TIONAL HERITAGE AREA REAU-
THORIZATION ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, northwest Pennsyl-
vania has a rich history and a vibrant,
diverse economy. Its winding trails,
beautiful landscapes, recreational ex-
periences, and thriving communities
make Venango and Crawford Counties
especially captivating places to live, to
work, and to visit. Many of these at-
tractions are centered around the same
central common theme: the world’s
first commercial oil well.
Colonel Drake successfully drilled
this well in 1859, triggering the first oil
boom and establishing the Oil Region
as ‘‘the valley that changed the
world.’’ His efforts not only made
northwest Pennsylvania the energy
powerhouse that it is today, but also
sparked a cultural revolution that
came as a result of a booming econ-
omy.
We are tremendously proud of our
history and heritage in northwest
Pennsylvania. We still celebrate these
historic communities that bloomed
from Colonel Drake’s innovative idea,
and Drake Well continues to have a
tangible impact on the area’s economy.
In 2004, Congress designated the re-
gion as a national heritage area. There
are only 49 of these areas across the
country that are designated as places
where natural, cultural, and historic
resources combine to form a cohesive
nationally important landscape.
The Oil Region national heritage
area was the Nation’s 25th national
heritage area, and it celebrates the
birth of the petroleum industry. The
region is honored to have this impor-
tant designation, but without action, it
will sunset next year. That is why I
have introduced H.R. 642, the Oil Re-
gion National Heritage Area Reauthor-
ization Act.
The heritage area’s coordinating en-
tity, the Oil Region Alliance of Busi-
ness, Industry, and Tourism, has taken
a grassroots, community-driven ap-
proach to heritage conservation and
economic development. Through pub-
lic-private partnerships, national her-
itage area entities support historic
preservation, natural resource con-
servation, recreation, heritage tour-
ism, and educational projects. These
partnerships foster pride of place and
an enduring stewardship ethic.
The Oil Region Alliance focuses on
heritage development, economic devel-
opment, and tourism destination mar-
keting. All three of these areas have
been successful, and from 2005 to 2015,
ORA has been able to invest more than
$6.8 million in heritage development
projects, invest more than $6.7 million
in economic development activities,
and attract nearly 240,000 visitors, an-
nually. They have done an excellent
job using innovative methods to stimu-
late the local economy, using a mix-
ture of both Federal and private funds.
Last year, Congressman MIKE KELLY
and I visited the home of the legendary
investigative journalist Ida Tarbell.
Born in Pennsylvania at the onset of
the oil boom, Tarbell is best known for
her 1904 book, ‘‘The History of the
Standard Oil Company.’’
The ORA had recently completed a
full restoration of Ms. Tarbell’s home,
ensuring that it would be preserved for
generations to come. This restoration
was just one of many projects the ORA
is working on, and my bill will allow
these projects to continue through
2026.
Extending this funding is crucial for
the ORA to continue its mission of pre-
serving the Oil Region’s history, stimu-
lating the local economy, and allowing
others to appreciate the beauty and
culture of Venango and Crawford Coun-
ties.
The ORA’s efforts give us the ability
to appreciate the rich history of north-
western Pennsylvania and understand
the impact that our community has
had on American culture today. I urge
my colleagues to cosponsor this legis-
lation, which will directly impact
northwestern Pennsylvanians and pre-
serve a rich heritage for all Americans.
f
STATIC WALLS DON’T WORK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO) for 5 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.000 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1002 January 23, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, well,
the President is increasingly focused in
messaging on the need for the wall as
being the shipment of illegal drugs into
the United States of America and the
drug epidemic. I think we are all con-
cerned about that, and we would all
like to do something effective to deal
with it.
Now, as his current acting chief of
staff said when he was a Member of
Congress about a wall: You go under—
tunnels—you go through or over, and
what you need is more manpower, more
technology.
So the President says we need a stu-
pid, static wall at extraordinary costs.
Actually, we need something else.
What we need are effective measures.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity says they need $5 billion to recon-
figure our ports of entry and to bring
in new technology.
El Chapo’s lieutenants and others
have testified at his trial in New York
they don’t go across remote desert
areas. They buy semi-tractor trailers
and they reconfigure them and bring
them through the ports of entry. They
are very efficient. And that is how they
are getting drugs into this country.
We lack the personnel and the equip-
ment to detect these shipments. So
how about investing there?
Oh, and by the way, the people who
are screening at the ports of entry, 8
percent of the vehicles is all they can
screen today. Probably less today be-
cause they aren’t getting paid, and
some of them can’t show up to work
because they can’t hire childcare or
they can’t fix their car to get to work
or something else.
So the President is concerned? Real-
ly? I don’t think so.
And then there is another way that
drugs are more and more frequently
coming into our country. As you can
see from this display of drugs here, the
Coast Guard intercepted $5.6 billion of
drugs coming in on maritime routes
last year. But the retiring Com-
mandant said that is only about 20 per-
cent of the drug shipments we can
identify. We don’t have the personnel
or the proper equipment to intercept
the other 80 percent.
Oh, by the way, the Coast Guard,
they are not getting paid either.
But the President is concerned. Well,
has he talked about the need to give
more resources to the United States
Coast Guard?
So, hey, it would be great if they get
$5.7 billion, and that is one-fifth of the
drugs they can identify. That would be
$25 billion of drugs being intercepted
next year if they had the equipment,
the personnel they needed—five times
the cost of a stupid, static wall.
So if the President is truly concerned
about cartels and Asian mobs shipping
drugs into the United States, he should
be talking about putting money where
it is needed: at the ports of entry, the
Coast Guard for maritime interception,
and other places where it would be
more effective.
That is the position of the Demo-
crats. We want to have effective 21st
century border security, not a failed
wall. That has been tried by a number
of civilizations.
Static walls don’t work. Let’s do real
things to deal with the real problem.
f
CNN—THE FAKE NEWS KING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, while CNN has had a rotten,
no-good, horrible week, the American
people have had a great week because
last week exposed the CNN vitriol,
prejudice, bias, and deception that
crowned CNN the fake news king.
First, CNN fake news story number 1:
For 2 days, CNN drooled over Presi-
dent Trump’s impeachment propaganda
in a BuzzFeed report that was so bad it
prompted a rare public rebuke and
‘‘not true’’ proclamation by Special
Counsel Robert Mueller.
CNN, strike one.
Second, CNN fake news story number
two:
CNN viciously and wrongly attacked,
ridiculed, slandered, and maligned Cov-
ington Catholic High School students
by portraying them as racists. By and
large, these teenagers at a pro-life
march were White males, Catholic,
and, heaven forbid, President Trump
supporters with Make America Great
Again hats.
CNN’s prejudice against this profile
blinded CNN to reality. Had CNN done
its homework, CNN would have re-
ported from the very beginning that
the students were the victims of Afri-
can American racists who hurled in-
sults at and sought to intimidate
White teenage students and were the
victims of Native American political
activists who rudely accosted the stu-
dents, beat a drum in their faces, and
yelled that White people should leave
America.
Did fake news CNN report from the
very beginning this racism against
White people and how remarkably well
these Catholic high school students
handled this situation and maintained
their composure? No. Sadly, CNN’s bias
and prejudice did not allow that.
CNN, strike two.
Third, CNN fake news story number
three:
CNN did a poorly researched fact
check on illegal alien and border secu-
rity crime data comments by various
Republicans, including me. The seg-
ment opened with ‘‘New Day’’ host
Alisyn Camerota deriding ‘‘fact-free
fear-mongering’’ from ‘‘Trump sup-
porters.’’
Really? If you support border secu-
rity and protecting American lives,
you are a fact-free, fear-mongering
Trump supporter who must be attacked
at all costs? Is that really CNN’s view-
point?
CNN’s John Avlon then falsely
claimed that I said a border wall is the
way to keep death-dealing drugs out of
America, when I clearly stated a border
wall is a necessary subpart of a broader
border security strategy required to
slow down drugs crossing over our
southern border and save American
lives.
That truth didn’t fit CNN’s blind fe-
alty to open-border, socialist Demo-
crats, so CNN deceived rather than tell
the truth.
CNN next showed me stating that
Federal officers apprehended roughly
2,000 illegal aliens per year for homi-
cides on American soil. That is fine.
That is true.
Federal Government’s Immigration
and Customs Enforcement and Re-
moval Operations reports state Federal
officers apprehended 1,886 illegal aliens
in FY 2017 and 2,028 illegal aliens in FY
2018 for homicides committed on Amer-
ican soil.
But CNN’s John Avlon attacked this
Federal crime data by citing an unre-
lated PolitiFact analysis and making
an apples and oranges comparison that
misunderstands the difference between
the words ‘‘homicide’’ and ‘‘murder.’’
Well, all murders are homicides. Not
all homicides are murders. Murders are
a subpart of the word ‘‘homicides.’’
In any event, the PolitiFact analysis
involved another person, not any of us,
and was about murders not homicides
and disagreed with nothing that I said.
CNN strike three. You are out.
Madam Speaker, is CNN the most
trusted name in news as it claims? No.
Not when its reporters, fact-checkers,
and newscasters are so blinded by vit-
riol, prejudice, bias, and hatred for
President Trump that they cannot
think or see straight; not so long as
CNN is nothing more than an
apparatchik for radical, open-border,
socialist Democrats, not the truth and
not the American people.
Madam Speaker, CNN has earned its
fake news crown, and based on last
week, is not at risk of losing its crown
anytime soon.
f
b 1015
HONORING SERGEANT WYTASHA
CARTER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Alabama (Ms. SEWELL) for 5 minutes.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the life
and service of Sergeant Wytasha Car-
ter, a 16-year veteran of the Bir-
mingham Police Department, who lost
his life, tragically, in the line of duty
on January 13, 2019.
Wyt, as his family and friends fondly
called him, was a natural-born leader
with whom others enjoyed working.
Sergeant Carter was a Birmingham na-
tive who graduated from Phillips High
School before attending Liberty Uni-
versity.
Sergeant Carter was drawn to service
from a young age. After graduating
from college, he served in the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.003 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1003
January 23, 2019
States Armed Forces, as a U.S. Air
Force sergeant, before beginning his
law enforcement career in 2002 as a cor-
rectional officer with the Shelby Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Department. Sergeant Car-
ter served with the Birmingham Police
Department for nearly 8 years and was
recently promoted to sergeant last
year.
But above all, Sergeant Carter was a
husband, he was a father, and he was a
beloved member of his community. He
was so beloved that more than 2,000
people gathered to celebrate his life
and his service at his funeral last Sat-
urday.
Sergeant Carter was a passionate
guardian of his Birmingham commu-
nity: He was a fierce protector of his
coworkers; he mentored children about
the dangers of drugs and gangs; and he
was someone who consistently worked
above and beyond the call of duty, de-
voting his life to improving his com-
munity.
Sergeant Carter died from a gunshot
wound while doing the job he loved so
passionately. He and other police offi-
cers were working to make our commu-
nity safer.
Sergeant Carter led by an example of
excellence and of giving back to his
community. The city of Birmingham is
better because of his contributions.
His death is a stark reminder of the
dangers that our brave policemen and
-women face while working to secure
our safety. They courageously put
their lives on the line day after day to
protect and to serve our neighborhoods
while we sleep. Every time they put on
their uniform—and even when their
uniform comes off—they bravely put
duty before self.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
praying that God provides comfort to
Sergeant Carter’s family and friends,
especially his wife of 21 years,
Tiphanie, his daughter, and his young
son. We pray for all of those who were
affected by this senseless tragedy, as
well as his fellow officer, who was criti-
cally injured in the shooting and who
continues to rehab toward full recov-
ery.
We must use this tragedy as a re-
minder that Congress must act to pre-
vent this sort of senseless gun violence,
gun violence that Sergeant Carter
spoke out against. We honor the legacy
of service of Sergeant Carter by mak-
ing sure we in this body act. As Presi-
dent Obama said: ‘‘Our tears are not
enough. Our words and prayers are not
enough.’’ We must act.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of Ala-
bama’s Seventh Congressional District
and a grateful nation, I ask my col-
leagues to join me in celebrating the
life of Sergeant Carter’s contribution
to making the community of Bir-
mingham better and this Nation. May
we live out Sergeant Carter’s legacy by
working for a safer and more secure na-
tion today and every day.
ELMORE COUNTY TORNADO
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Alabama (Mrs. ROBY) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. ROBY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the hardworking men
and women I represent in Elmore Coun-
ty, Alabama, who, this past Saturday,
experienced a devastating loss, as a
tornado ripped through the city of
Wetumpka. By the grace of God, no
lives were lost and only minor injuries
have been reported at this point. Still,
the damage is severe and the road to
recovery is long.
Madam Speaker, on Monday, I spent
time on the ground with those im-
pacted, and I had the opportunity to
see firsthand the damage to several
churches, the police station, dozens of
homes, and businesses. I appreciate the
tireless work of the local leaders and
first responders who immediately
jumped to action to begin putting the
pieces back together for the people who
have lost so much.
During this challenging time, it has
been so encouraging to see the commu-
nity united like a family. They have
come together to begin the rebuilding
process. Merely hours after the dev-
astating storm, the Elmore County
Emergency Management Agency heard
from nearly 1,000 individuals who
signed up to volunteer their time and
resources in the cleanup efforts.
Madam Speaker, I would like to take
this opportunity to speak directly to
the people impacted by this weekend’s
tornado:
My office stands ready to assist you
in whatever ways we are able. My staff
and I work for you, and we want to be
a resource for you during this very
challenging time. The rebuilding proc-
ess won’t be easy, but if we work to-
gether and help each other whenever
possible, we will get through this to-
gether. In the meantime, my family
and I will continue to pray for those
impacted by this devastating event.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. CURETON L.
JOHNSON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. BUTTERFIELD) for 5
minutes.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Madam Speak-
er, I rise this morning to recognize a
great American and a great friend, Dr.
Cureton L. Johnson, a longtime theolo-
gian and community leader in Fayette-
ville, North Carolina. Dr. Johnson will
approach his last official sermon as
pastor of historic First Baptist Church
in Fayetteville on Sunday, January 27,
2019. I am, therefore, honored to share
with my colleagues in the United
States House of Representatives the
accomplishments of this remarkable
man of God.
Cureton Lee Johnson was born in Ra-
leigh, North Carolina, to the late Dr.
and Mrs. Paul H. Johnson. He is a grad-
uate of the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill and received his
master’s degree from American Univer-
sity here in Washington, D.C., and the
Shaw University Divinity School in
Raleigh. He also received his doctor of
ministry degree from Drew University
in Madison, New Jersey. He previously
served on the public relations staffs at
North Carolina A&T State University
in Greensboro and Howard University
here in Washington.
Over the years, Madam Speaker, Dr.
Johnson remained true to his commit-
ment to be active, productive, and
dedicated to every facet of his beloved
community. As a young student at
UNC-Chapel Hill, Dr. Johnson served as
president of the Black Student Move-
ment Association. He was the founding
editor of the BSM’s newspaper, referred
to as Black Ink, which is still in publi-
cation today.
A longtime social activist, Dr. John-
son was a member of the anti-apartheid
movement during the 1980s and was ar-
rested while demonstrating at the
South African Embassy in the District
of Columbia.
Dr. Johnson also served as the editor
of the Baptist Informer, which is the
official publication of the General Bap-
tist State Convention of North Caro-
lina, Incorporated, the oldest organiza-
tion of Black Baptists in the Nation,
founded in 1867.
The son and grandson of Baptist min-
isters, Dr. Johnson was called into the
ministry in 1976 and ordained in 1978
under his father, the legendary Dr.
Paul H. Johnson, Sr., at Martin Street
Baptist Church in Raleigh.
Dr. Cureton Johnson served as an as-
sociate minister at Martin Street Bap-
tist Church and at Florida Avenue Bap-
tist Church in Washington, D.C. Dr.
Johnson is also pastor at New Red
Mountain Baptist Church in
Rougemont, North Carolina, and Bap-
tist Grove Baptist Church in Raleigh.
On the first Sunday in June 1991, Dr.
Johnson assumed full pastoral respon-
sibility at his current First Baptist
Church in Fayetteville.
I might say, Madam Speaker, First
Baptist Church in Fayetteville was
formed in 1868, 5 years after the Eman-
cipation Proclamation was signed by
President Abraham Lincoln and
months following the ratification of
the 13th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion, ending slavery in America. It is
the oldest missionary Baptist church
in the city of Fayetteville, a church
that I have attended on many occa-
sions, including when I was stationed
at Fort Bragg Army post in Fayette-
ville.
Madam Speaker, much of First Bap-
tist Church’s growth in recent years
can be attributed to the leadership of
Dr. Johnson and its spirit-filled church
congregation. Under Dr. Johnson’s
leadership, the church has been a pow-
erful force for uplifting God’s people in
this community, launching a free sum-
mer children’s reading camp in 1993. It
continues to serve over 100 children
every year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.005 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1004 January 23, 2019
In 1999, First Baptist Church broke
ground on a $2 million Christian cen-
ter. The two-story facility includes
11,000 square feet, a library and learn-
ing center, nursery, children’s church,
clothes closet, and a multipurpose
room for neighborhood development
and outreach ministries.
First Baptist Church remains active
in the Union Baptist Association, the
General Baptist State Convention of
North Carolina, and the Lott Carey
Foreign Mission Convention.
During his pastorate, Dr. Johnson
has preached more than 2,300 sermons
and welcomed more than 500 souls into
the fellowship, presided over 750-plus
funerals, officiated at more than 125
weddings, and dedicated some 130 ba-
bies. He has ordained 15 ministers, in-
cluding First Baptist Church’s first
five women ministers. He has also or-
dained the church’s first five women
deacons.
In closing, Madam Speaker, Dr.
Johnson is blessed with a loving wife,
the former Lena A. Goode of Durham.
They have two sons, Paul and Cureton;
one grandson, Jayden Cureton; and one
granddaughter, Jaelynn.
By the grace of God, Dr. Johnson re-
tires after three decades of outstanding
leadership at First Baptist Church. Al-
though Dr. Johnson is retiring from an
active ministry, he will never retire
from his unwavering service to God.
On behalf of the United States House
of Representatives, we thank Dr. John-
son for his service to community. His
life has been one of unlimited service.
We will cherish his leadership for years
to come. I extend my congratulations
and best wishes to Dr. Johnson, his
wife, and the entire congregation at
First Baptist Church and the Fayette-
ville community.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in recognizing the Reverend
Dr. Cureton Lee Johnson on this auspi-
cious occasion.
f
HONORING STEVE NETTLETON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. LAMALFA) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life and to
mourn the passing of a truly larger-
than-life figure from my community in
northern California, Mr. Steve
Nettleton, pictured here with his wife,
Kathy, appropriately out at the ball
game.
A well-known philanthropist and
lover of baseball, Steve passed away re-
cently due to complications of Parkin-
son’s disease at the age of 79.
Originally from Iowa, Steve grew up
with a passion for America’s pastime:
baseball. Now we know that Steve also
attended San Diego State University.
His love for the game drove him to try
out for the SDSU baseball team. While
he didn’t quite make the roster, he
never left the sport behind.
In 1971, Steve and his family relo-
cated to Chico, a small town in north-
ern California he never heard of—and
he never left. More than 20 years later,
he built a multimillion-dollar business
as a grocer but said his best day in the
business was the day he sold it in 1995.
If you lived in or near Chico, it would
be hard to miss the Nettleton name, as
Steve’s generous philanthropy resulted
in many buildings and many projects
bearing his name: Enloe Medical Cen-
ter’s Nettleton Mother and Baby Care
Center and the Nettleton Gym at the
Boys and Girls Club of Chico are just a
couple of those examples that were
named in his honor due to his work.
Perhaps even more notably, Steve
and his wife, Kathy, generously do-
nated $2 million to transform Chico
State University’s humble baseball dia-
mond into a modern, 4,100-seat sta-
dium, which was soon also adorned
with the name Nettleton Stadium. The
‘‘Nett,’’ as they call it, helped revi-
talize the baseball program at Chico
State, which then became home to two
national championship baseball teams,
among the many more regional and
conference titles the Chico State Wild-
cats went on to win.
Steve also brought the joy and fam-
ily fun of minor league baseball to
town as the owner of the Chico Heat
franchise. Throughout the club’s exist-
ence, Steve’s limitless passion for base-
ball shone through in every facet of the
organization. They wanted to win
games, but they also wanted to give
the community something that was
unifying and entertaining. Indeed, it is
and was.
It should come as no surprise that
Steve was awarded Chico Sportsman of
the Year in 1999 and was inducted into
the Chico Sports Hall of Fame in 2016.
His generosity was not limited to
baseball. Steve was deeply passionate
for the community he learned to call
home. As I mentioned, he was also a
known contributor to the Boys and
Girls Club of Chico, the American Red
Cross, the American Cancer Society,
United Way, the Salvation Army, and
many more.
For all of his efforts and contribu-
tions on behalf of a university which he
did not attend, Chico State awarded
him an honorary doctorate degree of
humane letters—only the second per-
son in school history to receive such a
degree.
It is indeed clear that Steve deeply
cared for his community. In return, it
deeply cared for him. Through his self-
less generosity over the years, Steve
Nettleton built a legacy that will far
outlive his time on this Earth. But
still, those who remember it will miss
the nightly opportunity to shake
Steve’s hand after a baseball game as
he showed his appreciation to those
fans in attendance.
Steve brought much joy and fun to
his hometown and to its people. He will
be greatly missed. God bless the
Nettleton family at this time.
b 1030
DAY 33 OF THE SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. HIMES) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, so here
we are together in the House of Rep-
resentatives on day 33 of the govern-
ment shutdown. We have all been back
in our districts, and like me, I suspect
have all heard from people who are
really starting to suffer as a result of
this government shutdown: TSA
agents, other people essential to our
security, other Federal workers, and
people who receive food stamps who are
wondering whether 2 weeks from now
they will be able to feed their children.
I don’t know about you, but I come
back to Washington thinking one
thing, which is: We need to stop calling
this a government shutdown. That sort
of makes it sound like a machine isn’t
working somewhere. Let’s call this
what it is. The President’s decision to
sign no budget until he gets his wall is
not a government shutdown.
It is taking the happiness, the pros-
perity, and the opportunity of millions
of Americans hostage until he gets his
wall. It is not too strong to say that
this is torturing millions of Americans
with anxiety until the President gets
his wall.
It is saying to Americans that you
will work for weeks, and maybe
months, but we won’t pay you because
he needs his wall. If you are one of the
millions of Americans who rely on
SNAP benefits so that you can look at
your child and know that that child
has had nourishment that day, you
may not get those benefits because he
needs his wall.
If you are a contractor, you are not
getting any back pay, and I am sorry,
because he needs his wall.
I have got the stories from my dis-
trict that everybody else does in this
Chamber. The worst one was when I
talked to a woman named Debbie.
Debbie is fighting stage IV melanoma.
Her husband is a Department of Trans-
portation executive who was called
back to D.C. to work without pay, leav-
ing Debbie to raise three children and
battle cancer without pay, with the in-
security of whether she will be able to
pay her copays to keep herself alive.
Why? Apparently, holding hostage
the American people is okay because
the President’s wall is that important.
Well, if that is so important, why,
when the Republicans controlled the
House, and the Senate, and Presidency
until a few weeks ago, why did we not
hear about the wall then? Why are we
torturing the American people now?
I have been here for 10 years. We
haven’t ever had a debate or an argu-
ment about a wall, but now it is okay
for the President to torture the Amer-
ican people, to keep them without
money, to keep them in insecurity, to
keep them in anxiety, because right
now the wall is absolutely essential.
Let’s talk for a second about where
this came from and what kind of a tool
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.006 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1005
January 23, 2019
this hostage taking is. Remember, dur-
ing the campaign the President said,
we will build a wall from sea to shining
sea, a big beautiful wall that will be
paid for by Mexico.
What we are doing right now is not
delivering on the campaign promise of
the President of the United States. We
are cleaning up around the fact that he
could not deliver on a campaign prom-
ise to have Mexico pay for the wall. In-
stead, security workers and the Amer-
ican people are being asked not just to
pay for his wall, but to suffer for his
wall.
This is a dealmaker. The art of the
deal. I was in the majority once when
we had the Senate, and Presidency, and
the House. There was lots of stuff we
wanted but we couldn’t get done. A
public option in the Affordable Care
Act, we couldn’t get that done. The
American Clean Energy and Security
Act, we couldn’t get that done. Some-
thing to address climate change, we
couldn’t get that done. But we never
dreamed that the tool that we had in
our pocket was to say we will torture
the American people unless we get
what we want.
I would remind my Republican col-
leagues that there will be a Democratic
President someday, and they are set-
ting this precedent. Set this precedent
because it is an awesome tool. Maybe
we will decide not to pay the military
until we can get truly universal health
coverage. Maybe we will decide not to
man the borders or to decriminalize
marijuana because that is what we
want, and we won’t pay people until we
get what we want. It is a terrible prece-
dent, and my Republican friends know
that.
So what do we do now? There are two
things that can happen. The President
can maybe turn off ‘‘FOX News’’ long
enough to see that this is hurting his
politics very badly. He could maybe ex-
perience some empathy; something
that I am not holding my breath for. Or
maybe, Congress could act like Con-
gress and say we are a coequal branch
and we stand for the people who we are
currently torturing.
The Senate majority leader said, I
will not move a bill that the President
will not sign. Think about that. The
United States Senate, the greatest de-
liberative body on the planet is, by de-
sign now, a rubber stamp to the Presi-
dent.
It is not hard to override a veto. It
just requires us to do what we are paid
to do and stand for the American peo-
ple who are suffering right now.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
THANKING MINNESOTA’S FIRST
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT FOR
THE PRIVILEGE OF SERVING
THEM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. HAGEDORN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. HAGEDORN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to thank the residents of
Minnesota’s First District for the
privilege and honor of serving them as
their Representative in the House of
Representatives.
As southern Minnesota’s servant in
Congress, I will work to keep America
safe with secure borders and a military
and foreign policy of peace through
strength.
I will work to make America pros-
perous by transforming the Federal
Government and implementing regu-
latory reform, individual tax reform,
work for welfare, patient-centered
medical care, merit-based immigra-
tion, and achieving U.S. energy inde-
pendence.
I will work to protect our God-given
U.S. constitutional rights, especially
the right to life, the right of law-abid-
ing Americans to keep and bear arms,
and the right to religious freedom.
Lastly, I will work to sustain agri-
culture and our rural southern Min-
nesota way of life.
Madam Speaker, serving this body is
humbling, and I look forward to work-
ing with my colleagues to restore
America’s greatness and reflect the
views and values of the constituents of
the First District of Minnesota.
f
FIGHT FOR AMERICANS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) for 5
minutes.
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam Speaker, a
few days ago I walked into a Coast
Guard base in Boston and I saw some-
thing I never thought I would witness
on American soil. Members of our
Armed Forces were lined up at a food
pantry while they were on the clock
because their employer, the United
States Government, wasn’t paying
them for the work that they put in
that day.
Madam Speaker, look around this
country, and you will see nearly a mil-
lion civil servants and more than a
million contract workers who are
forced to deter medical care, find part-
time jobs, return Christmas presents,
take out loans, pawn valuable posses-
sions, draw down retirement savings,
just to afford to feed their family and
to keep a roof over their head.
You will find families that are terri-
fied that their food stamps will run
out. You will see notices threatening
eviction for families who are upholding
their end of their rent, while the gov-
ernment defaults on its own obliga-
tions.
You will see businesses struggling to
stay afloat under lost Federal support.
Domestic violence organizations will
have to turn away survivors because
critical grant funding isn’t coming
through.
Yes, this is about a misguided and
demagogued immigration fight. And,
yes, this is squarely about a President
who couldn’t keep his promise.
But at its core, it is about an admin-
istration that has spent 2 years treat-
ing the livelihood of working families
as a bargaining chip, quickly traded
away time and again to protect power,
profit, and political gain.
Theirs is a system that asks Amer-
ican workers to make painful sacrifices
that those in power only read about; a
system where tax cuts for inter-
national corporations are paid for by
Medicaid cuts for working families;
where healthcare premiums skyrocket
for the sick and the suffering; where
healthcare industry executives reap
the reward.
Theirs is a system where labor pro-
tections for workers are wiped out as
distant CEOs lay off loyal employees
and gut pensions; where a safety net
that keeps our fellow Americans afloat
shrinks and tears as their President
smiles and holds the scissors; where
profits accrue to those who have al-
ready profited, and the loss is borne by
those who can least afford to bear it.
Beyond the shutdown, beyond this
President, our government needs to
prove to the American people that we
are fighting for them. Because right
now, they don’t believe we are in their
corner, and I don’t blame them.
f
HONORING SERGEANT ALIPIO
ARROYO RAMOS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. SOTO) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor Sergeant Alipio Arroyo Ramos.
First Sergeant Alipio Arroyo Ramos,
resident of Kissimmee, Florida, was
born on January 14, 1949, in Cayey,
Puerto Rico.
At the age of 18, he joined the United
States Armed Services where he served
proudly for over 22 years. During his
time in the Armed Forces, he obtained
a degree in accounting from the Uni-
versity of Maryland and completed
combat medical training at the U.S.
Army Medical Department Center and
School in Texas.
In 1969, he volunteered and served in
the Vietnam war as a combat medic
where he fought for our Nation and
provided critical medical aid to wound-
ed fellow servicemembers and civilians
in the line of fire.
As a result, he was awarded the
Bronze Star for his courage in the Viet-
nam war. After the Vietnam war, he
briefly returned to the civilian sector
and applied his military medical expe-
rience with the epidemiology division
of the Puerto Rico Department of
Health before deciding to rejoin the
United States Armed Forces on Active
Duty.
Upon rejoining, Mr. Arroyo was as-
signed to multiple posts throughout
the United States and abroad. In 1988,
he was stationed in Fort Bragg, North
Carolina, where he successfully passed
rigorous training and evaluations to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.008 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1006 January 23, 2019
become a member of the United States
Special Forces Command, a lifetime
achievement he and his family are
proud of to this day.
During his tenure with the United
States Special Forces he worked di-
rectly under two different four-star
generals. Since his retirement in 1998,
he continues to be an active member of
the Disabled American Veterans orga-
nization and is a passionate and fierce
advocate for veterans’ rights, particu-
larly those, such as him, who have suf-
fered the unfortunate and debilitating
consequences of having been exposed to
Agent Orange during the Vietnam war.
To this day, he continues to adopt the
motto: ‘‘Duty, Honor, Country,’’ as his
life creed.
First Sergeant Arroyo resides in Kis-
simmee, Florida, with his wife, Luz
Amary, who has always stood by his
side in support throughout his entire
military career. He is the father of
three children: Nikolas, Phillip,
Zulimar Arroyo; and three grand-
children, Camila, Valeria, and Sofia,
all of whom he loves dearly.
UNPAID GOVERNMENT WORKERS
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, I want to
take a moment to talk a little bit
about the shutdown. We are in day 33,
since the shutdown began. The House
and Senate came together originally
with bipartisan budgets to try to re-
solve this. But then on that fateful
day, President Trump said that he will
take the mantle and he would shut
down the government over border secu-
rity.
Over 2 weeks ago, I met with TSA,
PASS, and Department of Corrections
employees, and they told me their sto-
ries about not being able to make a
mortgage; about not being able to have
healthcare and childcare; about those
facing diabetes and cancer.
Last week, I returned back to the
TSA in their break room to speak with
workers about how we were going to
transport people to and from work,
waiving tolls, addressing diabetes, and
childcare, once again.
This past week, I joined Second Har-
vest Food Bank to help feed Federal
employees because the United States
Government is not paying them. Our
Federal workers are about to miss
their second paycheck.
Mr. Speaker, I ask the President:
How long will TSA protect our airports
without pay; how long will the IRS
workers clock in to timely process our
tax refunds if they are not getting a
paycheck; and how long will U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection agents
protect our very border that we are de-
bating without getting paid?
b 1045
We can debate and negotiate over
border security.
But why, Mr. President, must you
hold nearly 800,000 Federal workers and
their families hostage?
Where is the Senate?
We have voted 10 times to reopen the
Federal Government. The number of
times they voted: zero.
The offer that was given this week, a
temporary 3 years for Dreamers and
TPS refugees for a permanent border
wall with $5.7 billion and a political
asylum system that is worse than the
current one.
If you are really serious, President
Trump, why not make the changes for
our Dreamers and TPS refugees perma-
nent, much like the wall you are ask-
ing for?
Now the House Democrats have a
counteroffer. We already put in a $1.3
billion increase for border security in a
bipartisan Homeland Security budget.
This was the budget passed by the last
GOP Congress. Now we are adding an
additional $1.5 billion to improve our
security in a three-part border and se-
curity plan: one, more security for our
ports of entry where most of the drugs
are coming in; two, more technology at
the border so we know when people are
coming across it; and, three, more per-
sonnel.
Mr. President, reopen this Federal
Government.
I ask the Senate to get a backbone
and act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair and not to a per-
ceived viewing audience.
f
END THE SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. KELLY) for 5 minutes.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today because 800,000
Federal workers—7,400 of who live and
work in Illinois—are furloughed or
working without pay because of this
unnecessary Trump shutdown.
Today I want to talk about two of
them. The first is a constituent from
the south suburbs of my district. Be-
fore joining the Federal Government
workforce, he proudly served our Na-
tion during the Vietnam war. He
fought for his country. He risked his
life for this country.
When he came back from the war, he
continued to serve. In fact, he served 46
years in the government working to
help his fellow Americans find opportu-
nities and bridges to a better life. After
46 years and because of the declining
health of his wife, he decided that it
was time to retire. Given his career, I
would say it is a well-deserved retire-
ment. So he filed his paperwork, but,
sadly, it was 2 days before the Trump
shutdown started. His retirement ap-
plication has yet to be processed. He
has yet to receive his final paycheck
and cannot access his TSP or 401(k) be-
cause he doesn’t have his official re-
tirement documents.
Madam Speaker, this is insane. It is
insane that this President—a five-time
draft dodger—would treat a Vietnam
veteran with such outright disdain.
But, honestly, I am not sure he cares.
While this story is especially upset-
ting, it is not the only story. Another
of my constituents was featured yes-
terday on ‘‘CBS This Morning.’’ His
family has three kids; two of them are
autistic. After years of dedicated gov-
ernment service, his family was denied
his paycheck and likely won’t receive
his next scheduled paycheck either. In
order to make ends meet, they are dip-
ping into their savings—savings meant
to provide for the long-term care of
their children.
Is this really the way we want to
treat Americans—let alone Americans
who have dedicated their careers to
serving our great country?
Madam Speaker, these are just two
stories of many. Right now there are
dozens of Active Duty Coast Guard at
Station Calumet Harbor risking their
lives to save others and to protect the
homeland who aren’t getting paid.
These are Active Duty servicemembers,
and they were told to hold yard sales
or babysit to make ends meet without
paychecks.
Are you serious?
President Trump wants Active Duty
Coast Guardsmen to sell their families’
memories because he is throwing a
temper tantrum and shut down the
government. It is just madness, plain
and simple.
I have a message to President Trump
about his border wall: You have lost.
This game is over, and you are hurting
people like this Vietnam war veteran.
You have lost, and you are not going to
get it. End this Trump shutdown and
then have a real serious conversation
on border security and comprehensive
immigration reform.
In fact, I will promise right here and
right now, Mr. President, if you are se-
rious about solving issues—and there
are definitely issues that need to be
solved—I will be the first one at the
table. Reopen the government, Mr.
President. I will be there to talk about
real bipartisan reforms that will en-
hance border security and prevent
more families from being cruelly torn
apart by a broken immigration system.
Madam Speaker, while this is a
Trump shutdown, he has dangerous
enablers in Congress. The biggest one
is just a few steps away in the Senate,
the Senate majority leader.
I also have a message for the Senate
majority leader, the gentleman from
Kentucky: Call a vote on any of the bi-
partisan funding bills that this House—
the people’s House—has sent over to
the Senate. Call a vote and reopen the
government. Call a vote for the 6,400
Kentuckians working without pay or
not working in your State. You were
elected to serve the people of Ken-
tucky, not the whims of the man in the
White House. Mr. Majority Leader, it is
time to do your job.
In closing, Madam Speaker, I want to
thank my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle who have joined our efforts
to reopen government. Each vote gets a
few more. These are hardworking, com-
monsense men and women who want to
do their job. They want to serve their
constituents and make America a bet-
ter place.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.010 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1007
January 23, 2019
Together with House Democrats,
they are standing up to President
Trump and his illogical wall. Together
with House Democrats they are saying:
reopen the government. Together with
House Democrats, they know that we
can’t secure our border if border agents
aren’t being paid and if Active Duty
Coast Guardsmen are not being paid,
and we can’t secure public safety if FBI
agents aren’t being paid.
Madam Speaker, my constituents
and hundreds of thousands of other
families are suffering because of this
Trump shutdown. I am proud to have
voted with every House Democrat to
reopen the government to pay our Ac-
tive Duty servicemembers and restore
government services. It is time for the
Senate and President Trump to show
the same commitment to our economy,
our national security, and the hard-
working men and women who serve
this Nation as Federal Government em-
ployees.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to direct their re-
marks to the Chair and to refrain from
engaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
LET’S COME TOGETHER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. WOODALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I
remember standing in your chair over
these last couple of Congresses reading
out that very same card at the end.
Whether the Obama administration or
the Trump administration, folks come
down to the floor, they get caught up
in the passions of the moment, and we
do have opportunities to come to-
gether.
I had not planned on coming down. I
was actually in the Cloakroom making
some telephone calls, and I heard my
colleague speaking. I heard her with
sincerity implore the President to
come to his senses, come to the negoti-
ating table, and end this shutdown.
Then I heard her with sincerity im-
plore the leaders of the Senate to come
to the negotiating table, to come to
their senses, and to end this shutdown.
Then in about an hour and a half, I will
be down here leading the debate on the
rule for the minority, and we will bring
yet another of the exact same bills we
have brought to the floor that have
gone absolutely nowhere in an effort to
reopen the government.
I would say to my friends that the se-
cret to finding common ground isn’t to
ask everybody else to come to where
you are standing. That is the new defi-
nition of compromise in this town. I
have seen that, that gravitate in the
five terms that I have been here.
The definition of compromise is:
Well, why don’t you agree with me?
The truth is the only movement I
have seen in this debate over these last
32 days is the President this past week-
end when he said: Do you know what?
We have called on every single Member
in every single Chamber to find a solu-
tion to the young men and women
trapped in a DACA status, those fami-
lies who come here with temporary
protective status, and they are uncer-
tain about their future—folks on both
sides of the aisle have called for that—
he said: Do you know what? Maybe we
can broaden this debate, Madam
Speaker. Maybe we can broaden the
definition of what success looks like,
and maybe we can break this logjam.
Madam Speaker, I would just say to
my colleagues: I will come back down
to the House floor as often as you all
want me to come back down to the
House floor, and we can do exactly the
same thing every single day knowing
we are going to get exactly the same
result from the White House and the
Senate. Or, we can try to do something
different.
Candidly, my constituents didn’t
send me here to do the same thing over
and over and over again with the same
failed result. They sent me here to get
success. They don’t care if I win. They
care if I succeed on their behalf. They
don’t care about Republican and Demo-
cratic priorities. They care about their
family priorities.
And I have to believe—though I don’t
know all of my freshman colleagues as
well as I would like—I have to believe
that even with all the new Members in
this institution there is still more that
unites us than divides us in this coun-
try. I love that about this institution.
I love that about the men and women
who are here.
So, Madam Speaker, I ask this: Let’s
try to do a little more listening and a
little less talking. Here in the rank and
file, golly, I have to believe if I could
pick out a few colleagues here, I am
pretty sure that we could sit down at
the table and solve this. I confess it is
beyond our reach as we sit here today.
This is a White House decision. This is
a MITCH MCCONNELL decision. And this
is a NANCY PELOSI decision. We ought
to all as rank-and-file Members be out-
raged when it does rise to that level be-
cause we lose control. Our constituents
lose their voice.
I am encouraging my leadership to be
as open and honest and to be as flexible
and creative as they possibly can in
finding a solution. Every single one of
us bears responsibility in this Chamber
of what is going on.
If Senate Democrats had let these ap-
propriations bills move last fall, then
we wouldn’t be in this mess. If Repub-
licans had passed a continuing resolu-
tion in December, we wouldn’t be in
this mess. There are 1,000 different de-
cisionmaking points where we could
have done things differently. We can-
not change those, but we can change
what is happening here today.
I tell my constituents back home: If
you want to understand what is hap-
pening in Congress, listen to the 5 min-
utes in the morning, listen to the 1
minutes at noon, and find out if the
folks who are coming to the floor are
celebrating opportunities for success or
simply condemning their colleagues for
not being invested in solutions.
I believe in the men and women of
this Chamber. I believe in the U.S.
House of Representatives. I believe in
self-governance in this Nation. Failing
the American people, Madam Speaker,
undermines that confidence. We have
an opportunity to succeed, and I hope
we will say yes to that opportunity.
f
VIRGINIA’S EIGHTH DISTRICT IS
SUFFERING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. BEYER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, my
Northern Virginia district includes
more Federal workers—almost 87,000—
than any other, and my people are suf-
fering.
This week we entered the second
month of a shutdown which President
Trump began by rejecting a Republican
bill which passed overwhelmingly in
the Senate after promising that he
would, in fact, shut down the govern-
ment.
The undeniable fact is that if the
President told Senate Republicans
today to vote for the exact same bill
they already passed, the exact same
bill he promised to sign, then this shut-
down would end. But he refuses to do so
because his demands are unmet.
President Trump’s complaints of a
crisis, Madam Speaker, are correct in
one respect: they are a crisis for the
people I represent and for people in
every district across this country.
The President has said many things
since he promised that he would shut
down the government, but few of his
comments are directed to the Federal
workforce. I have gotten many hun-
dreds of calls, emails, and letters, and
they are overwhelmingly opposed to
the shutdown. They are about tuition
they can’t pay, rent, healthcare pre-
miums, insulin and other drugs, and
groceries.
I am particularly concerned because
so many of the folks who work in
northern Virginia have security clear-
ances, and the number one reason peo-
ple are denied a security clearance is
because of a financial blot on their
record. It is the number one reason
their security clearance is taken away.
If they are late on car payments and
mortgage payments, they can actually
lose their jobs.
I am concerned about the impact on
contractors. These are the folks like
guards at the Smithsonian or food
service workers or people in cleaning
crews. They tend to be minimum wage.
They tend not to have savings, and
often no benefits. They are not getting
paid, and they have nothing to fall
back on. All the people who serve in
our community—waiters, dental hy-
gienists, auto mechanics, and
hairstylists—are seeing their ability to
make money day after day disappear.
President Trump says his shutdown
is about making the country safer, but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.012 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1008 January 23, 2019
that doesn’t make any sense if you
talk to the people who are suffering
today. I have heard from furloughed
FBI agents, air traffic controllers,
State Department officials, workers at
TSA, the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, the Coast Guard, and even Cus-
toms and Border Patrol, and they all
vehemently oppose the shutdown.
Madam Speaker, we all support effec-
tive border security, but keeping these
people furloughed or making them
work unpaid doesn’t make us any safer.
But on the positive side, as the pain
has gotten worse for our community, I
have also seen something else, which is
that communities are coming together
to make sure that no one gets left be-
hind. Business after business through-
out the country and throughout north-
ern Virginia are helping with free sand-
wiches, free meals, and free services.
Nonprofits are stepping up their ef-
forts to meet the worsening conditions
created by the shutdown, and govern-
ment officials, furloughed and
unfurloughed, are doing everything
they can to pitch in and lighten the
blow on their unpaid colleagues.
b 1100
Yesterday, I was helping serve food
to Federal employees at Chef Jose An-
dres’ World Central Kitchen. There was
a line around the block, and it was D.C.
police officers on their lunch break
who came to help serve.
By the way, Madam Speaker, I think
I handed out more than 300 meals, and
not a single person said: Open up the
government. Give Trump his wall.
We are better than this. We are good,
kind, and industrious. The American
people don’t deserve this shutdown.
It is axiomatic that we shouldn’t ne-
gotiate with hostage takers, but the
President has taken our government
hostage. If we give him what he wants,
he may well use this tactic again and
again and again.
President Reagan said: ‘‘Mr. Gorba-
chev, tear down this wall.’’
We say: President Trump, tear down
your wall—your unreasonable obses-
sion with an obsolete, medieval, inef-
fective way to secure our borders—and
open up our government.
f
NEED FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. MALINOWSKI) for 5
minutes.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to introduce the Transpor-
tation Funding Fairness Act and to ex-
press my hope that, after we have come
to our senses and reopened the govern-
ment, this year Congress will come to-
gether to fund the bridges, tunnels,
railroads, airports, and roads that we
all understand America needs to pros-
per and grow.
In the first decade of the 20th cen-
tury, commuters in New Jersey towns
like Summit, Union, and Westfield
could hop on a steam-powered train,
ride right up to a terminal on the dock
in Jersey City, change seamlessly to a
ferry, and be in Manhattan within 50
minutes to an hour, if there wasn’t too
much fog or ice on the Hudson River.
A hundred years of magical, techno-
logical progress later, and we have
managed to shave that trip by maybe a
few minutes, if the trains are running
on time that day.
Decades of underinvestment in public
infrastructure have taken its toll on
American greatness. Anyone who has
traveled the world and has seen the
modern airports and seaports and fast
rail networks that our competitors are
building would understand that.
Just in the last 2 months, as we have
not even been able to open our govern-
ment, the Chinese Government has
been busy approving over $125 billion in
new rail projects—$125 billion.
No State suffers more from our lack
of attention to infrastructure than
New Jersey, where twice as many peo-
ple use public transportation than the
national average. To get to and from
New York, 200,000 of us a day still de-
pend on just two rail tracks across the
Portal Bridge and through a Hudson
River tunnel that our great-grand-
parents built in 1910 because they
thought those 50-minute, turn-of-the-
century commute times were unaccept-
ably long.
When the Portal Bridge opens to let
boats pass today, a worker with a ham-
mer must sometimes lock it back into
place while stranded commuters wait,
and that Hudson River tunnel has just
a few years of life left. If we fail to re-
place it in time, we will be dealing a
crippling blow to the economy of our
region and our country.
That is why it is so urgent and im-
portant that we get the Gateway Tun-
nel project built.
Madam Speaker, in New Jersey, when
we say we want to build bridges, not
walls, that is not just a metaphor. We
mean it literally. The $5.7 billion that
would be wasted to wall off America
from Mexico happens to be almost ex-
actly the Federal share of building a
new Hudson River tunnel that would
keep Americans connected to each
other and, ultimately, to the world.
These are the real choices that we
face. Is there any doubt what the vot-
ers who sent us here would have us
choose: building something that mil-
lions of people living in my State and
neighboring States say they des-
perately need, or something people liv-
ing on the border say they do not need?
A symbol of national progress, or a
symbol of national fear? Is there any
question at all?
That is one reason why I am intro-
ducing this bipartisan bill today, which
is meant to clear one of the artificial
obstacles the Department of Transpor-
tation has placed in the path of the
Gateway Tunnel.
The Department has argued that
when States take advantage of Federal
transportation loans to pay some of
their share of projects jointly funded
by the Federal Government, like Gate-
way, those loans don’t count as part of
the State contribution to the project.
It makes no sense. State taxpayers,
after all, are 100 percent obligated to
pay back those loans. It is like saying
that I am not actually paying for my
house because I have taken out a mort-
gage.
Our bill makes crystal clear that
States can use Federal loans to cover
all or part of their share of these
projects.
Speaking of taxpayers, Madam
Speaker, I represent a State where we
get only 74 cents back from Wash-
ington for every dollar we pay in taxes.
That is the worst ratio in the country.
The average American gets $1.12 back
for every dollar he or she pays, cour-
tesy of the Federal deficit.
What we ask, with strong justifica-
tion, is that Washington give a bit
more back in the form of investment in
the infrastructure that powers States
like New Jersey and, in turn, enables
us to power the American economy.
I hope we will make progress on that
this year and that this bill will make
the task a little bit easier.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. SCHRIER) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Speaker, yes-
terday marked 1 full month of this un-
necessary government shutdown, and
800,000 Federal employees are set to
miss their second paycheck later this
week.
The shutdown is not only affecting
those workers, but we are seeing ripple
effects of agencies being closed or staff
being downsized. Food banks are seeing
massive increases, some almost twelve-
fold, in demand from Federal employ-
ees, but also people who rely on help
like Section 8 housing checks or SNAP
benefits.
Here is some of what I am hearing. I
heard from a constituent who is a ca-
reer employee at the FAA that ‘‘it is
frustrating that thousands of hard-
working Federal employees have be-
come innocent pawns in the current
Washington standoff between Congress
and the President over funding for bor-
der security. As an integral part of the
Nation’s air traffic control system, my
focus has always been and will always
be on safety.’’
He goes on: ‘‘My dedicated colleagues
and I at the FAA work tirelessly in fur-
therance of the agency’s mission of
providing the safest, most efficient
aerospace system in the world, despite
some of us now doing so without pay.’’
I have also heard from a woman
whose husband is a Federal agent at
the FDA. ‘‘My question,’’ she says, ‘‘is
how are we going to make ends meet
without a paycheck from my husband
this Friday? We adopted our sweet son
a year and a half ago, draining our sav-
ings account to do so. We currently do
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.013 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1009
January 23, 2019
not have savings to fall back on during
this time.
‘‘How are we supposed to pay our
rent, our bills, keep food on the table
for our family, or pay for an emergency
should it arise? I do have a full-time
job that will at least bring us some in-
come during this shutdown, and I am
sure we are luckier than most Federal-
employed families, but I can assure you
that our family is in true panic mode.
‘‘We have been doing everything in
our power to ensure our family would
be able to purchase a home this sum-
mer. How do we explain to creditors
that we don’t have the money to pay
them right now without it affecting
our credit?’’
I have also heard from a constituent
who is a furloughed Federal worker
who is ‘‘forced to come to work every
day without pay due to the partial gov-
ernment shutdown.
‘‘Every day that goes by, the stress
and anxiety about not having a pay-
check and having to support my fam-
ily, all the while having to incur the
costs of going to work every day,
mounts. To top this all off, as an ‘ex-
cepted,’ or an ‘exempt,’ employee,
under current Federal law, I am not al-
lowed to apply for nor can I receive un-
employment compensation.’’
I have also heard from a local busi-
ness owner who contracts with Federal
entities. He says: ‘‘My work has ground
to a halt. I won’t be compensated for
any downtime, and I will have to re-
duce my workforce. We don’t need a
wall; we don’t need to waste money;
and we don’t need symbolic racism. We
need an open government that manages
land, services, travel, and commerce.
Please apply pressure to get the gov-
ernment open and our district’s Fed-
eral employees, contractors, and pri-
vate-sector partners back to work.’’
I have heard from a constituent who
served 40 years in the Coast Guard,
under many different administrations,
who said: ‘‘Worst of all, it is negatively
impacting the most junior members of
our workforce. These are the people
you will meet if you ever take your
family out boating on Puget Sound or
the navigable waters of this country
and experience some form of distress.
As a retiree, I will not be paid at the
end of this month, a statement I once
believed I would never have to say.’’
I have heard from a social worker
whose client left a domestic violence
situation and recently received a letter
about discontinuation of Section 8
housing benefits: ‘‘This family, without
this support, will be homeless once
again, let alone the emotional strain
that this is causing. Please do what
you can,’’ she says, ‘‘to prevent the
stress on our most vulnerable.’’
The shutdown must end now. Federal
employees and their families should
not be held hostage for a wasteful and
ineffective wall. People who rely on as-
sistance from the Federal Government
are now caught in the fray.
The House now has voted nine times
to reopen the government with bipar-
tisan bills that have similar language
to what the Republican Senate passed
in December, and we will introduce
similar legislation today, giving Re-
publicans in the Senate yet another op-
portunity to open the government.
I will not support reopening the gov-
ernment in exchange for the Presi-
dent’s wall. This hostage-taking strat-
egy must not be a successful one, or we
will see it again.
The wall, as he defines it, is a monu-
ment to racism and xenophobia, an en-
vironmental disaster, and a huge waste
of hard-earned taxpayer dollars.
Let’s be clear that what Mr. Trump
offered as a ‘‘compromise’’ on Saturday
doesn’t even undo the damage he alone
has caused. That is no compromise;
that is lip service.
Get the government open, and then
we can have an informed, evidence-
based discussion about the best way to
protect our borders without holding
the American people hostage.
f
HOSTAGE TAKING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, I rise once again as a proud Amer-
ican. I love my country. I love what it
stands for, in terms of its great ideals.
And, Madam Speaker, as a proud Amer-
ican, I rise today to address the ques-
tion of hostage taking.
One of the principles that we employ
in international diplomacy—and I am
being a little bit euphemistic by saying
‘‘international diplomacy’’—is that of
not negotiating with hostage takers.
If you take one of our planes,
highjack one of our planes, and you de-
mand a ransom, we will not negotiate
with you. Grab an American off the
streets in some distant place, and we
will not negotiate with you.
It doesn’t matter that you start out
at $50 million and then reduce your de-
sire to have a ransom to $10 million,
maybe. We don’t negotiate with you.
You are a hostage taker.
The United States of America, the
greatest and richest country in the
world, which can pay the price, refuses
to negotiate with hostage takers.
Madam Speaker, this is bigger than
the President. This is about whether or
not we will allow any President to take
hostages and demand a ransom that
must be paid or else the hostages will
continue to suffer. This is about wheth-
er we will allow any President to do
this—not just a Republican President,
any President.
It is un-American to take persons
hostage within this country and de-
mand a ransom when we wouldn’t
allow it on the international stage.
I am a person who decided that it was
appropriate to meet with the hostages,
and I did. I met with the hostages who
work with the IRS. I heard their clar-
ion call for help, their appeal for some
understanding.
When I met with them, it became
very clear to me that there is pain be-
yond the pain of not having the check
to pay the bills.
Some of these persons literally indi-
cated that they were having some men-
tal concerns that would have to be ad-
dressed because they played by the
rules. They have come to work; they
have done their jobs; and now they find
themselves in this most tenuous posi-
tion of being denied the wages they
have earned.
b 1115
There is something wrong when a
President will hold people hostage to
the extent that they have mental
issues as a result of the hostage taking.
One of the things called to my atten-
tion was that they don’t believe that
this all ends with them the moment
they are allowed to go back to work
and receive the wages that they have
earned. They believe that they may
have to have some additional coun-
seling to help them through and to bet-
ter cope with the experience that they
never contemplated they would have as
a result of being employed by the
United States of America, the richest
country in the world.
This is bigger than this President. It
is about him, but it is bigger than him.
It is about whether or not we will allow
hostage taking within the country and
yield to it, or will we demand that we
do what we continue to say is our bed-
rock principle when it comes to negoti-
ating with hostages on the inter-
national stage, and that is, you release
our people; you let them go.
Mr. President, let our people go. You
have become a modern-day pharaoh.
You are holding people hostage, Mr.
President. Don’t you see what you are
doing to the fiber and fabric of this
country? Don’t you see how you are
ripping it apart? You are a modern-day
pharaoh. Let our people go.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to direct their re-
marks to the Chair and to refrain from
engaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 16
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God of wisdom and peace, thank You
for giving us another day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1010 January 23, 2019
As this partial government shutdown
continues, help the Members of this as-
sembly to open their hearts to Your
love and to surrender their hopes and
desires to Your purposes.
Pour out Your spirit of wisdom on
each Member that today’s delibera-
tions might best respond to the press-
ing issues of the day. While disagree-
ment abounds in Washington, thou-
sands are in need of relief.
Bless those Americans who locally
are stepping forward to assist those
charged with serving to secure our safe
travel and our borders and who are
missing their second paycheck.
May humility and compassion be
manifest among those who have the
power to bring this impasse to an end.
Lord, have mercy on us.
May everything we do be for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8,
rule XX, further proceedings on this
question will be postponed.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. WILSON)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. Under clause 5(d) of
rule XX, the Chair announces to the
House that, in light of the resignation
of the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. MARINO), the whole number of the
House is 433.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to 15 requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
46TH ANNIVERSARY OF ROE V.
WADE
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, yesterday was the 46th anni-
versary of Roe v. Wade, the landmark
Supreme Court decision that affirmed
the constitutional right to an abortion.
This decision allowed millions of
women to come out of the shadows and
access lifesaving reproductive care, yet
antiabortion laws and sustained at-
tacks on women’s access to the full
range of reproductive healthcare con-
tinues to push abortion coverage out of
the reach for too many people.
Since 2011, State lawmakers have
passed more than 400 laws that restrict
abortion, and policies like the Hyde
amendment have pushed coverage out
of reach for millions of women, espe-
cially low-income women and women
of color. That is why I have been proud
to be the lead cosponsor of the EACH
Woman Act, along with Congress-
woman Jan Schakowsky and Congress-
woman DIANA DEGETTE.
This legislation will end the harmful
Hyde amendment and make sure that
all people, regardless of where they live
or how much they make, have access to
a full range of reproductive healthcare.
Madam Speaker, I remember the
days of back-alley abortions, and we
cannot allow this administration to
turn back the clock on women’s access
to abortion. It is time to be bold and
end Hyde and lift all the bans that
deny a full range of reproductive
healthcare to all women.
f
IRANIAN PROXIES
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, the murderous regime in
Tehran has a very clear policy: death
to America, death to Israel. That is
why Iran trains, arms, and funds mili-
tia groups to fight its proxy wars
throughout the Middle East.
In Iraq, these militias destabilize the
country, weaken Baghdad’s central au-
thority, and do Iran’s bidding. These
militias directly threaten American in-
terests in Iraq.
Many of them have American blood
on their hands, but they are not being
held accountable for their actions by
our government. That is why I intro-
duced H.R. 361, the Iranian Proxies
Terrorist Sanctions Act, with my col-
leagues on the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, BRAD SHERMAN, STEVE CHABOT,
and TOM SUOZZI.
This bill will finally sanction two no-
torious Iranian-controlled proxy
groups in Iraq, including those respon-
sible for the September 2018 attacks on
the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad and U.S.
Consulate Mosul. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues to support this bipar-
tisan bill.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
GERTRUDE AND SOL SLOAN—
INTERNATIONAL HOLOCAUST RE-
MEMBRANCE DAY
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I recently met with an ex-
traordinary American by the name of
Gertrude Sloan. Today, I rise to share
her story and that of her late husband,
Sol, both Holocaust survivors.
Sol and Gertrude were born in Roma-
nia into Jewish families, and both were
taken by the Nazi regime and held in a
camp in Auschwitz. In an oral history,
Sol tells the horrors of the concentra-
tion camps: starvation, beatings, and
family separations with fatal endings.
Of the 1.3 million people taken to
Auschwitz, an estimated 1.1 million
were killed. Sol and Gertrude made it
out alive. They met at a displaced per-
son’s camp and were later sponsored by
relatives to come to America. In 1955,
they opened Sloan’s Antiques on Buf-
falo’s east side, which continues to be
operated by their son Max today.
I share the Sloans’ story as we pre-
pare to recognize International Holo-
caust Remembrance Day. May it be a
reminder of the unspeakable grief for
the Holocaust and for the inspirational
stories of those who survived.
f
GLOBAL TRADE ACCOUNTABILITY
(Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
international trade is essential to
America’s economy and to American
leadership. Today, I introduce the
Global Trade Accountability Act,
which seeks to establish this principle.
As a private-sector manufacturing
business owner, I experienced the
harmful effects of bad trade practices
firsthand.
On trade, as with many other issues,
Congress needs to work with President
Trump to restore power to the Amer-
ican people. This bill does that by en-
suring that the President has flexi-
bility to change tariffs as needed in ne-
gotiations, but if the President wants
the tariff to continue beyond 90 days,
Congress would need to vote approving
that action.
President Trump’s commitment to
put America first in trade is commend-
able in fulfilling his promise to Amer-
ican workers; however, the President
should not be in this fight alone. Con-
gress needs to join the fight to ensure
these efforts are effectively moved for-
ward for the entire country.
The Constitution clearly gives the
legislative branch the responsibility to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.018 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1011
January 23, 2019
regulate commerce and lay taxes and
duties with foreign nations, yet Con-
gress has surrendered this Article I au-
thority. Mr. Speaker, it is time to re-
store it.
f
STOP HOLDING OUR FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES HOSTAGE
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, today, I want to share the
story of one of my constituents. Her
name is Trisha.
In December of 2017, Trisha and her
family lost their home and all of their
belongings in the devastating Thomas
fire. Since then, the family has been
working hard to rebuild their home and
their lives while supporting their two
young children.
Now, because of the Trump shut-
down, Trisha and her husband, who
both work as air traffic controllers,
have gone weeks without paychecks,
facing very extreme hardship.
President Trump is holding them and
800,000 other Federal employees hos-
tage, making an already stressful time
even worse.
I welcome an honest, bipartisan dis-
cussion on border security, but we can-
not have a full and transparent legisla-
tive process while the American people
are being held hostage. It is time to
open up our government now.
f
MENNONITE COLLEGE OF NURSING
CELEBRATING 100 YEARS
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
Illinois State University’s Mennonite
College of Nursing on celebrating 100
years of excellence in nursing edu-
cation.
Founded on January 23, 1919, the
Mennonite Sanitarium Training School
had a vision of training the Nation’s
best nurses. In 1982, they grew to be-
come the Mennonite College of Nurs-
ing, thereby offering undergraduate de-
grees for the very first time.
In 1995, they added a graduate degree;
and in 1999, the college became part of
Illinois State University, where it has
expanded to include even more aca-
demic offerings, including a doctorate
degree.
Today, the ISU Mennonite College of
Nursing boasts a state-of-the-art sim-
ulation lab and a 10,000-square-foot fa-
cility to provide students with hands-
on experience in real-life situations
with patient simulators.
As the husband of a nurse who is a
former nurse educator, I am proud of
the strong legacy of ISU’s Mennonite
College of Nursing and their commit-
ment to educating future generations
of nurses just like these students here.
I commend them on their century of
leadership and look forward to the
many achievements to come.
f
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS
AFFECTED BY THE SHUTDOWN
(Ms. SCHAKOWSKY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to share with you a letter
from Antonio, a constituent of mine af-
fected by this shutdown. He says:
I am an air traffic controller at O’Hare
Airport. This is already a stressful job, but a
job that I love. This shutdown is adding an
extra layer of stress to all of the controllers
working around the country. With the shut-
down going past a month, we are all stress-
ing about bills, how to put food on the table,
how to pay for childcare, et cetera. We don’t
have the luxury of escaping from the stress
of this job because, when we go home, the
stress just continues as worrying.
Finding out that our vision and dental ben-
efits would be billed to us with the expecta-
tion that we pay those bills out of our own
pockets, despite having no paycheck for over
a month, has only added to that stress. This
shutdown is going to be a massive safety risk
for the flying public if it doesn’t end soon.
I have more from Antonio, which I
will include in the RECORD later.
f
BRAVE MEN AND WOMEN OF
FEMA
(Mr. RIGGLEMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker,
today I rise to commend the work of
our hardworking FEMA employees and
the fantastic job they do with disaster
relief.
In October, my district, and many on
the East Coast, were hit by Hurricane
Florence and Tropical Storm Michael.
I visited the town of Drakes Branch in
Charlotte County to offer support after
those storms. The damage was dev-
astating, and there was work to be
done all over the East Coast.
In my district alone, FEMA applica-
tions were filed in Charlotte County,
Danville city, Franklin County, Hali-
fax County, Lunenburg County, Meck-
lenburg County, Prince Edward Coun-
ty, and many others.
I commend the hard work done by
FEMA in helping these areas recover,
because we are recovering and are con-
tinuing to work to rebuild these areas.
I also commend the brave fire and
rescue workers in all these areas, espe-
cially Meherrin Volunteer Fire and
Rescue and the Drakes Branch VFD.
This is not an easy task, but for our
work so far, we have been a success,
and I thank the brave men and women
of FEMA for their efforts.
f
b 1215
END SHUTDOWN AND PAY
AMERICAN WORKERS
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, as we
stand here today, 33 days into the long-
est shutdown in our history, hundreds
of thousands of Federal employees are
being forced to work on our Nation’s
behalf without pay.
We are all able to confidently shop
for groceries and eat in restaurants be-
cause FDA food inspectors are on the
job. We are able to pass through air-
port security and fly across the Nation
because TSA agents and air traffic con-
trollers continue to do their jobs. We
can all sleep soundly at night knowing
our shores are protected because the
men and women wearing the uniform of
the Coast Guard remain resolutely at
their posts, on the job.
The list goes on and on, and all of
these Federal workers, these Ameri-
cans, are working without pay.
Mr. Speaker, this situation is uncon-
scionable. It is unjust. It is immoral.
This past weekend, Jason, an 8-year-
old boy from my district, presented me
an impassioned letter, remarkable for
its wisdom. He writes: ‘‘Dear Mr. Presi-
dent. . . . All of us work hard for our
money. . . . I hope you see my point of
view and end this shutdown.’’
Mr. Speaker, I ask the President to
listen to Jason and the majority of the
American people. End this shutdown
and pay the American workers who
every day keep our Nation safe, secure,
and strong.
f
MARCH FOR LIFE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, last Friday, more than
100,000 Americans came to Washington
for the 46th annual March for Life.
This year’s theme was ‘‘Unique from
Day One.’’
Those who march envision a world
where the beauty, dignity, and unique-
ness of every human life are valued and
protected.
Thanks to the pro-life movement,
abortion rates across the country are
at the lowest since 2013. Proudly, the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania re-
mains one of the top protective States
in the Nation to provide legal protec-
tions for human life from conception to
natural death, according to the Ameri-
cans United for Life.
Many of my colleagues have intro-
duced legislation in this Congress to
advance the pro-life cause and to pro-
tect the unborn. I am proud to cospon-
sor many of these bills, including the
Defund Planned Parenthood Act, the
No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act,
the Sanctity of Human Life Act, the
Protecting the Dignity of Unborn Chil-
dren Act, and the Life at Conception
Act.
Mr. Speaker, we must always be a
voice for the voiceless, and we must
continue to build a culture that values
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.020 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1012 January 23, 2019
life and respects mothers and their
children, both born and yet to be born.
f
SHUTDOWN HARMS VETERANS
(Mr. CROW asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
speak out against the great harm this
shutdown has on our Nation’s veterans.
I have often said, when politicians talk
tough, real people get hurt.
Today, over 150,000 veterans are fur-
loughed or working without pay. In
Colorado, over 20,000 veterans who rely
on SNAP food assistance are left won-
dering if they will be able to afford to
feed their families.
This is more than just a delayed pay-
check. It is about the denial of dignity
and respect.
As one furloughed veteran in Colo-
rado told me, when he took off the uni-
form, he wanted to continue serving
our country by working for the govern-
ment. We owe it to him and all others
to honor that service by getting them
back to work. There is a sacred prom-
ise in America that, if you step up to
serve, we will be there for you when
you take off the uniform.
After I returned from my third tour
of duty, I was grateful that my country
was there for me, and today, I stand be-
fore you to make sure we are there for
them. It is time for the Senate to vote.
It is time to reopen the government.
And it is time to end this travesty.
f
SHUTDOWN IMPACTS
(Ms. UNDERWOOD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, this
week, we will vote for the tenth time
to end the shutdown. I sincerely hope
that this is the last time.
For the people in the 14th Congres-
sional District of Illinois, the effects of
this shutdown are real and they are
painful.
This weekend, I visited a family shel-
ter for survivors of domestic violence
that does incredible work serving my
community. This shelter would like to
expand to serve more people, but fund-
ing uncertainty around reauthorization
of the Violence Against Women Act
makes that impossible for them. Do-
mestic violence survivors are a cas-
ualty of this senseless shutdown.
This weekend, I met an entrepreneur
who is working to open a pet care com-
pany with her husband. He even left his
job so they could realize their dream.
They are currently waiting on a Small
Business Administration loan they
need to open their business. It is sit-
ting on a furloughed worker’s desk. En-
trepreneurs are a casualty of this shut-
down.
This week, I met with air traffic con-
trollers in my district, people who keep
passengers and freight moving safely
through the skies. They are working 6
days a week and about to miss a second
paycheck. They told me they look after
their colleagues by asking: How long
do you have left?
How long do they have left before
they miss a mortgage payment, a
healthcare bill, or max out their credit
cards?
Mr. Speaker, I sincerely hope the
Senate will take up one of these bills
and reopen the government.
f
PRESERVE DIGNITY OF OUR
CITIZENRY
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, today, I
rise to lay bare the calamity that is
the shutdown. From phones ringing off
the hook, to folks I talked to at my
townhall meeting on Monday, we have
heard from far too many of our fellow
citizens struggling because of govern-
ment inaction.
Take the Coast Guard, who I met
with in Saugerties last Friday. They
are providing an invaluable service to
our community up and down the Hud-
son River, not only search and rescue,
but ice cutting, which is critical to our
local economy.
They are out there working in the
freezing cold and not being paid. This
is the first time in history U.S. Armed
Forces servicemembers are not being
paid during a lapse in government
funding.
I repeat: Because of the shutdown,
members of the U.S. military are work-
ing without pay.
Government dysfunction of any kind
is not good for the well-being of our
democratic order. We are now ap-
proaching levels of dysfunction that
ought not be tolerable for anyone who
cares to preserve the dignity of our
citizenry. We must open the govern-
ment now.
f
HONORING LIFE OF DR. RONALD
MERTHIE
(Mrs. MURPHY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of a spiritual
leader in my central Florida commu-
nity, Dr. Ronald Merthie, who recently
passed away.
A proud son of Seminole County, Dr.
Merthie attended what is now known
as Crooms Academy of Information
Technology, where he was elected class
president. He went to Texas Southern
University on an athletic scholarship
and, upon graduation, returned home
to become an educator.
Dr. Merthie struggled with substance
abuse for a period of time, but he found
strength through faith, overcoming
personal hardship and becoming a pil-
lar of his community.
Dr. Merthie’s life was filled with ac-
tion and achievement. He established
the New Life Word Center Church, of-
fered spiritual guidance on a weekly
broadcast, and founded a K–12 school.
It was Dr. King who said, ‘‘Life’s
most persistent and urgent question is,
‘What are you doing for others?’ ’’ Dr.
Merthie devoted his life to serving oth-
ers, and he will be deeply missed.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in honoring this exceptional
man and offer our condolences to his
family and to all of those whose lives
he touched.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 648, CONSOLIDATED AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019; PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.J. RES. 31, FURTHER CON-
TINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY, 2019; PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES; AND
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 61 and ask for
its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 61
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 648) making appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. The bill shall be considered as read.
All points of order against provisions in the
bill are waived. Clause 2(e) of rule XXI shall
not apply during consideration of the bill.
The previous question shall be considered as
ordered on the bill and on any amendment
thereto to final passage without intervening
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee on
Appropriations or their respective designees;
and (2) one motion to recommit.
SEC. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it
shall be in order to consider in the House the
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31) making further
continuing appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for fiscal year
2019, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the joint reso-
lution are waived. The joint resolution shall
be considered as read. All points of order
against provisions in the joint resolution are
waived. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the joint resolution
and on any amendment thereto to final pas-
sage without intervening motion except: (1)
one hour of debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Appropriations
or their respective designees; and (2) one mo-
tion to recommit.
SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time
through the legislative day of February 1,
2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions
that the House suspend the rules as though
under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or
her designee shall consult with the Minority
Leader or his designee on the designation of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.022 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1013
January 23, 2019
any matter for consideration pursuant to
this section.
SEC. 4. The requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a
report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House is
waived with respect to any resolution re-
ported through the legislative day of Janu-
ary 30, 2019, relating to a measure making or
continuing appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
HUFFMAN). The gentleman from Massa-
chusetts is recognized for 1 hour.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. WOODALL),
pending which time I yield myself such
time as I may consume. During consid-
eration of this resolution, all time
yielded is for the purpose of debate
only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on
Tuesday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 61,
providing for consideration of H.R. 648,
the Consolidated Appropriations Act of
2019, under a closed rule.
The rule provides 1 hour of debate
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations. It also pro-
vides for consideration of H.J. Res. 31,
which makes further continuing appro-
priations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019 under
a closed rule. The rule provides 1 hour
of debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking mem-
ber of the Appropriations Committee.
Additionally, it extends same-day au-
thority for appropriations measures
through January 30 and suspension au-
thority through February 1.
Mr. Speaker, we are on day 33 of the
Trump shutdown, the longest govern-
ment shutdown in American history.
Hundreds of thousands of Federal
workers will miss a paycheck for the
second time since the President
plunged us into this mess.
The very people who keep our Nation
safe are struggling to put food on the
table, people like men and women in
the Coast Guard, FBI agents, Border
Patrol officers, and TSA agents.
Makeshift food banks are being
opened across the country to help these
workers and their families get by.
Right outside our Nation’s Capital, in
Northern Virginia, some Federal work-
ers waited more than an hour recently
at a local food bank. Demand was so
high that a tenth of the food was gone
in the first 5 minutes.
Because of the President’s shutdown,
15 million households could see a gap in
their monthly SNAP benefits that lasts
more than 40 days. Four million low-in-
come households could see a gap that
lasts more than 50 days.
This program is their lifeline, Mr.
Speaker. These families don’t have a
plan B.
I have given weekly end-hunger-now
speeches on this floor since February of
2013, and I have made it clear time and
time again that hunger is not only un-
acceptable in this country, the richest
country in the history of the world, but
it is a political condition.
We have the resources. We have what
it takes. What we need to muster is the
political will to do something about it.
But here we are, and as I said, it is em-
barrassing enough that the wealthiest
nation on the planet has an ongoing
hunger crisis, but I never, ever imag-
ined that a President of the United
States would exacerbate it like this.
This is disgusting. This is unaccept-
able. This is unconscionable.
Let us be clear: It is the President’s
bruised ego that keeps a quarter of our
government closed today.
Now, his latest so-called compromise
proposal isn’t really a compromise at
all. In fact, it brings new meaning to
the word ‘‘cruel.’’
b 1230
Not only does it fail to provide a per-
manent solution for the Dreamers or
TPS recipients, it only covers a frac-
tion of eligible Dreamers, it excludes
TPS holders from Asia and Africa, and
it rewrites the law for future DACA re-
cipients, TPS holders, and asylum
seekers that will make it all but im-
possible for anyone to qualify.
These are the same old, tired, and ex-
tremist ideas the President and his ad-
visers floated last year. They were re-
jected by both the Republican-con-
trolled House and the Republican-con-
trolled Senate. This is not a com-
promise. This is called backwards.
Now, if this administration wants to
target refugees, people fleeing persecu-
tion, people fleeing for their life, if
that is what he wants to do, then at
least he should have the guts to do it
in an open hearing for the world to see.
Now, President Trump is treating
this like some reality show. He doesn’t
want to look bad in the right-wing
press despite the fact that Members of
both parties are refusing to fund his in-
effective wall. If the President really
wants to reach a real compromise, then
he should log off Twitter and actually
sit down with us and be willing to actu-
ally negotiate; no more storming out of
the Situation Room and no more of his
my-way-or-the-highway approach.
Work with us for a change.
For whatever reason, Mr. Speaker, he
has been unwilling to do that. Presi-
dent Trump may not have the fortitude
to get us out of this mess that he cre-
ated, but this majority does. So instead
of following the President who got us
into this mess, we have an opportunity
to lead. Passing these bipartisan, bi-
cameral bills is what leadership looks
like.
Now, many of my Republican friends
have asked to consider a plan that
doesn’t cede the House’s will by consid-
ering a Senate bill. Well, today is their
day because we are considering a bipar-
tisan, bicameral compromise. This six-
bill package is the result of real nego-
tiations between the Appropriations
Committees in the House and Senate.
It is a true compromise that would re-
open the entire government apart from
the Department of Homeland Security.
In fact, these negotiated bills are ex-
actly what my good friends on the
other side of the aisle have been asking
us over the past week to take up.
Again, this is all last year’s work in
the last session.
I recognize that we don’t have a simi-
lar agreement on the Homeland Secu-
rity measure included here, but this
short-term CR will get our TSA agents
paid while all other parties get back to
the negotiating table.
The minibus includes $328 million in
new dollars for border security that we
know will actually work. The funding
will increase infrastructure invest-
ments at our ports of entry; install new
technology that will scan for drugs,
weapons, and contraband; put in place
technology to detect unauthorized
crossings; and fund more immigration
judges. This is what smart security
looks like in the 21st century, Mr.
Speaker, not some medieval wall.
Now, these details have already been
agreed to by Democrats and Repub-
licans on both sides of the Capitol. The
majority is standing by our word. I
urge my Republican friends: Take yes
for an answer.
The President may be proud to have
shut down this government, but this is
nothing to be proud of.
How can anybody be proud that
800,000 Federal workers are about to
miss a second paycheck, that our TSA
workers are calling in sick so they can
work another job that actually helps
them pay the bills, or the economy is
losing growth at twice the speed origi-
nally estimated?
I could go on and on and on and on,
Mr. Speaker, but I know each of us has
heard from people in our districts. Our
offices are getting these calls every
day, in fact, every hour and every
minute now. We are all hearing from
struggling constituents. Their message
is the same: End this shutdown. End
this shutdown.
This doesn’t seem, unfortunately, to
be a priority for President Trump. He
is out there tweeting about which play-
er should be in the Baseball Hall of
Fame. Give me a break. Maybe he
doesn’t know what it is like in the real
world. After all, the President got his
start through what he has called a
small loan from his dad that reports
now estimate could have totaled more
than $60 million. That is the world he
lives in.
But families are struggling and left
to wonder how they are going to afford
to put food on the table or how they
are going to pay for medicine without
a paycheck.
Enough of the games. Congress has
the power to end this shutdown.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.002 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1014 January 23, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this rule and give the
underlying legislation the strong veto-
proof vote it deserves. Let’s finally
turn the lights back on. Listen to your
constituents, I say to my friends on the
other side of the aisle. Listen to what
they are saying. Turn the lights back
on.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my
friend from Massachusetts for yielding
me the customary 30 minutes, and I ap-
preciated the first 60 seconds of his
comments where he went through that
kind of policy work and that kind of
procedural work, the work that we do.
We are on opposite sides of this issue.
The Rules Committee is the single
most partisan committee on Capitol
Hill, and, yet, we always find a way to
come together and share the debate to
move forward. But after that first 60
seconds of process, we went into 4 min-
utes of the President and accusations,
one after another after another.
Now, I have only been in this institu-
tion for five terms, Mr. Speaker, but
that is long enough to understand that
there is only one way to turn a bill
into a law, and that is if Congress pro-
poses it, Congress passes it, and the
President signs it. Now, my good friend
from Massachusetts knows as well as I
do the President has not vetoed one
single spending bill that the Congress
has sent to him. The government is not
shut down because the President is re-
jecting bills that Congress has passed.
The government is shut down because
Congress hasn’t passed a bill.
Mr. Speaker, if you would just listen
to that opening statement, your blood
pressure probably gets as high as mine
does: failure after failure after failure,
disappointment after disappointment
after disappointment, embarrassing
event after embarrassing event. I will
remind my colleagues that we are
where we are because we came together
and passed more spending bills on time
before the end of the fiscal year than
any other Congress in 22 years.
Now, we could have gotten them all
done. My Democratic friends in the
Senate didn’t want to move those
along. They had perfectly legitimate
policy reasons for doing that. I am not
going to question their motives; I will
question their wisdom.
We have got more done together than
we ever have before, and we could build
on that, I tell my friend. We could
build on that or we could go into our
corners, we could put on our jerseys,
and we can throw accusations out as
fast as we can invent them in our head.
That is where we are.
It is the month of January, Mr.
Speaker, the very first month of this
new Congress. We have new leadership.
It has been more than a decade since I
have seen a face like yours in the
Speaker’s chair. We have spent 338
hours in this Chamber—338 hours in
this Chamber—this month working on
appropriations bills. Not one has gone
to the President’s desk for his consid-
eration.
My friend from Massachusetts is
right when he talks about pain in
American families. My friend from
Massachusetts is right when he talks
about the expectations folks have of
Congress and how we should do better.
My friend from Massachusetts is right
when he says that this is not what any
one of us was sent here to do. We were
sent here to solve problems.
I promise you, unless your family is
different from mine, Mr. Speaker, un-
less your relationships are different
from mine, I have never solved a prob-
lem in my family by telling my loved
ones how much it is their fault, how
much they need to change, how much
they are on the wrong side of an issue
and we are not going to do anything
until they come around to my way of
thinking. It hasn’t been a particularly
successful method for me.
Now, I look back over these last 33
days. The President sent the Vice
President to Capitol Hill. He came with
the OMB director, Mick Mulvaney.
He said: I told you what I needed to
pass the bill. I told you what I needed
and what I thought was important for
America and for national security. But
I will tell you what; I don’t have to
have exactly that. I can come off that.
I can negotiate down from that. I can
move away from that. Let’s talk about
what the other options may be.
No response.
The President this past weekend: I
want to break this impasse; I want to
find a way we can move forward; it is
not about who wins. We all need to win
as Americans. We all want to do better
as Americans. I am going to offer to do
something that no President has been
able to do. I am going to offer to put
into statute protection for the young
men and women in the DACA program.
I am going to offer to put into statute
protections for those men and women
in temporary protected status that has
since expired. I am going to put that
into statute for the first time.
As the press release is dated, Mr.
Speaker, Speaker of the House NANCY
PELOSI rejected that offer 7 minutes be-
fore it was made.
I am not saying that that is the right
answer. I am not saying that that is
the best we can do. I am not saying
that is where the conversation ends. I
am asking my friends: When does the
conversation begin?
More than 300 hours we have spent
talking amongst ourselves and pro-
duced nothing to go to the President’s
desk. Sadly, I know that this issue has
elevated beyond where my friend from
Massachusetts, even as chairman of the
powerful Rules Committee—and it is
the powerful Rules Committee, it can
move absolutely any measure through
this House, and the Rules Committee
has been incredibly successful. The
House is moving appropriations bills
like nobody’s business, Mr. Speaker,
because when you are in the majority
you can do that. You can do my way or
the highway.
That is the way my friend described
President Trump’s attitude. I will just
remind my friend that is actually what
we have today in this bill. My ranking
member asked if we could consider
some amendments to this bill, and he
was told no. My friend didn’t say: Let’s
just come down here and have amend-
ments willy-nilly. We will have a
preprinting requirement, we will do
what we call a modified open rule, just
so some of our new Members can have
their voices heard, their constituents’
voices heard in some way.
The answer was no; straight party-
line vote. All the Democrats said: no,
we are not going to allow any other
voices to be heard; and all the Repub-
licans said: yes.
I don’t fault my friend for that. That
is not a personal slight of any kind,
Mr. Speaker. The Rules Committee is
the Speaker’s committee. It does the
work of the Speaker. As powerful and
talented as my friend from Massachu-
setts is, it is his job to implement the
Speaker’s will. Now, to his credit, he
has been very bold in terms of trying
to open that committee up. He has
been very bold in trying to make sure
more voices have been heard. But we
find ourselves trapped in this appro-
priations cycle. We haven’t actually
gotten to where my friend is going to
be able to do his very best work. We
are still trapped in trying to do the
business of last year.
But my friend’s pointing out that the
President’s my way or the highway—
which is inaccurate—is not helpful. My
pointing out that this bill is Speaker
PELOSI’s way or the highway may be
accurate, but it still isn’t helpful. We
have got to have a conversation with
one another. I can go down the list of
the ways that the President has said he
is willing to come to the table, but he
is sitting at the table alone.
I am a vote counter, Mr. Speaker. I
know how to count votes in this Cham-
ber. I have no doubt that the rule that
my friend from Massachusetts is pro-
posing is going to pass this floor today.
I have no doubt that the underlying ap-
propriations bill is going to pass this
floor. This rule includes something
called martial law, Mr. Speaker, which
means they can bring up anything they
want to any time they want to, no
preprinting, and no opportunity to re-
view it, none of those activities that
we would say bring out the very best in
transparency here. If any of those bills
come up, they are going to pass.
There is no confusion in this Cham-
ber about who has the votes to win.
The confusion in this Chamber is how
it is we get from where we are to where
our constituents want us to be and
doing the same thing over and over and
over again isn’t going to get it done.
It is my first time carrying a rule in
the minority, Mr. Speaker. I knew
when I walked down here this morning
my job was to lose. I don’t mind losing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.025 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1015
January 23, 2019
But I do mind when the American peo-
ple lose, and the American people are
losing right now. There are no winners
right now.
I know the men and women of this
Chamber. There are some talented ora-
tors here. We can absolutely trade in-
sults and accusations until the sun
goes down. But there are some talented
policymakers here, too. There are some
talented negotiators here, too. As long
as the President is sitting at that nego-
tiating table alone, we are not going to
get to a solution. But he doesn’t have
to be there alone. I appreciate his mak-
ing the invitation, and I hope, as my
friend from Massachusetts said, we will
learn to take yes for an answer.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1245
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me just remind my colleague
that the bills that we are taking up
here today were the result of a robust
amendment process and robust debate
in the last Congress. This is all last
year’s work.
I also remind the gentleman he is
right about one thing, that we haven’t
sent the President a bill from both
Chambers, but we almost did. If he re-
members correctly, in December, when
the Republicans controlled the House
and the Republicans controlled the
Senate and they, obviously, controlled
the White House, we actually came to-
gether and the Senate passed a bill
that would keep the government run-
ning and open, unanimously.
I even supported the gentleman’s
martial law rule to be able to bring up
that legislation expeditiously so we
could do our work and so that nobody
would have to be anxious over the holi-
days as to whether or not they were
going to get paid.
We were about to vote on it, and it
was agreed on by Democrats and Re-
publicans. There was no controversy.
And then the President turned on
rightwing TV or was listening to right-
wing radio, and Ann Coulter and some
of these other rightwing extremists
said: No, you can’t do that.
And he changed his mind, and every-
thing came to a standstill. So all this
bipartisan work was for naught.
What we are bringing up here today
is all the bipartisan work that many of
my Republican colleagues on the Ap-
propriations Committee, Democrats
and Republicans, worked hard on to
come up with a compromise that is
good. It is good. Yet my friends say:
Well, no. Let’s start all over again.
The bottom line is the other side left
us with a mess. When they controlled
everything, they weren’t able to get
the job done.
Let me just say, here are some facts:
This is the longest shutdown in his-
tory, but it is historic for another rea-
son. This is the first time in history
that a Congress has ended in a govern-
ment shutdown. Never before has a
Congress left it to the next Congress to
reopen the government. With all due
respect to my friends, that is what my
friends left us with.
On top of that, Republicans had con-
trol of the White House, the Senate,
and the House last year, and they
couldn’t keep the lights on. Then Re-
publicans went home for Christmas and
New Year’s and every day in between. I
know because I was on the floor mul-
tiple times begging to be recognized to
offer solutions, and I was denied even
the ability to offer a solution.
Since we took charge, we have non-
stop offered options. Now some Mem-
bers want to complain about how we
are cleaning up the mess that was left
to us.
Imagine this. Imagine if someone
dumped a bunch of garbage on your
lawn and then started complaining
about how you weren’t cleaning it up.
That is what is happening here.
I would suggest that my friends kind
of save their criticisms for a time when
we aren’t cleaning up after all of them.
I just want to make one other point.
The gentleman said that we have mar-
tial law, same-day authority in this
rule to bring up anything we want. No,
that is not the case.
When my friends were in charge, they
did. They had martial law to bring up
anything they wanted to, and they
were trying to bring up a cheese bill, if
I remember correctly, instead of a bill
to keep the government open in the
last days of December.
No. We limit it to appropriations
matters, and we want to be able to, if
we can come to a deal, if we come to
some sort of solution, to be able to
bring something up immediately to be
able to get everybody the paychecks to
which they are entitled.
I know the gentleman was home over
the holiday weekend, and I was, too.
My constituents asked me the question
over and over: I get it that there is a
disagreement over the President’s bor-
der wall, but why do you have to shut
the entire government down over that
issue? Why can’t you just continue in
negotiation? Why do you have to deny
TSA workers a paycheck? Why is that
okay? Why is that acceptable? Why are
they pawns in this? Or men and women
who serve in our Coast Guard, why is
that okay to say: You don’t get paid
because the President is having a tem-
per tantrum and he is not getting his
way? All of a sudden, we have to deny
them a paycheck?
People don’t understand why my Re-
publican friends think this is accept-
able. The gentleman from Georgia
knows that the reason why a bill is not
on the President’s desk is because the
Senate majority leader, Mr. MCCON-
NELL, is basically doing the President’s
bidding. He said: I am not going to
bring anything to the floor that the
President doesn’t want to sign.
We have another option here, too: We
can actually pass bipartisan bills that
should win overwhelming support. We
should pass them with veto-proof mar-
gins and basically say to the President:
We don’t believe in government by
blackmail. That is not the way we do
things around here. That is not the
way this government is supposed to
work.
We ought to reopen the government,
and we ought to engage in serious dis-
cussions about how we improve our
border security. We have some great
ideas on how to do that. We have some
ideas that I mentioned in my opening
speech on ways we can improve our
border security.
We think a border wall is a ridiculous
idea. But if you want to talk about a
wall, fine, but don’t—don’t—hold hun-
dreds of thousands of workers hostage.
We have an opportunity now to set
these hostages that the President has
taken free. Let’s do it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume,
and I appreciate that admonition from
the Chair.
I was looking aggressively at all the
words my friend had to say for what
that thing was that was going to break
this logjam, what that thing was that
was going to bring people together,
what that olive branch was that he was
extending to succeed where others had
failed.
I heard that if we only come together
and do it his way, that we could all just
get along, and I have no doubt that
that is true. That is not what a nego-
tiation is. That is not the way this
Chamber works.
We have got to send a bill to the
President’s desk. When the President
starts vetoing bills, then start accusing
the President of being the grit in the
cog in this legislative wheel. We don’t
have agreement amongst ourselves.
We were up in the Rules Committee
last night, Mr. Speaker, and one of my
appropriator friends was celebrating
the bills that were coming to the floor
today and celebrating how pleased she
was that so many of the pro-life provi-
sions had been stripped out, cele-
brating that so many of the dollars
that we would be sending overseas
would no longer be encumbered by pro-
life provisions, that folks would be able
to use them in any way that they
wanted.
Well, I have no doubt that she was
pleased by those things, but we are not
all pleased by those things, Mr. Speak-
er. This doesn’t represent the com-
promise solution that everybody is on
board with, as my friend would have
you believe.
The financial services language in
this bill, that never made it through
conference. We couldn’t agree, not
amongst ourselves in the House and
the Senate, not in a bicameral way.
My friend who is the ranking member
of the Financial Services and General
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.027 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1016 January 23, 2019
Government Appropriations Sub-
committee, Mr. Speaker, shared last
night that there were 20 different
pieces of bipartisan legislation that
were in the original bill, 6 pieces of bi-
partisan legislation that had been
signed off on by the then-ranking mem-
ber and, now, chairwoman of the Fi-
nancial Services Committee that we
could have moved forward, that we
could have made a difference—again,
stripped out for reasons beyond my un-
derstanding.
This isn’t complicated if folks are
sincere about coming together around
the table. It is impossible if folks
would rather trade insults than solu-
tions.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. MITCH-
ELL), a friend who has been dedicated
entirely to solutions in his short time
in the House.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, we
have three crises in our country right
now: We have a humanitarian crisis at
the southern border. We could talk
about the dynamics of that, but let’s be
honest about it—we truly do. We need
to secure our Nation’s borders, and we
need to reopen our government and pay
our Federal workers, something I have
been committed to since I joined Con-
gress.
So far, we have wasted more than 338
hours working on dead-end bills that
will not pass the Senate, the President
won’t sign, because my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle, or their
leadership, won’t get in a room and ne-
gotiate with the President, with MITCH
MCCONNELL, with the majority leader,
with the minority leader—all in the
same room—and negotiate on the pack-
age that the President has put forward.
I spoke on that package last week. I
held up this letter, which was a Janu-
ary 6 letter from the President, from
the administration, to the chair of the
Appropriations Committee and all the
members. The other side of the aisle
was astonished. They didn’t know what
this letter was.
That is a little bit demoralizing, if
you think about it, why the letter
wasn’t shared with all Members on the
other side of the aisle.
You see, compromise means you
don’t get 100 percent of what you want,
but you move the ball forward. You
move the ball down the road, and you
keep making progress.
Those same people who are calling it
a border wall or a barrier or whatever
you want to call it—I do stress to my
colleagues on the other side of the
aisle, call it about anything you want,
short of a moat. If you make progress,
we move forward.
These same people who are now call-
ing it immoral voted for border secu-
rity, border barriers, when there was a
different President. Now that it has
President Trump’s name on it, sud-
denly it has become evil.
Since January 3, President Trump
has made two detailed proposals to
Congress on how to solve this prob-
lem—it shows that the President is
prepared to negotiate on it—a package
of things that include border security,
technology at the border, strength-
ening our points of entry, humani-
tarian aid, additional immigration
judges, and, let me stress this, pro-
viding assistance for people to apply
for asylum from their home countries
rather than take that dangerous and
treacherous journey to the Mexican
border.
Doctors Without Borders says that 31
percent of the women who make that
journey are sexually assaulted. The
President wants to address that. Nei-
ther of those proposals have even got-
ten a moment of discussion from the
other side of the aisle.
Anyone who spent 35 years in busi-
ness, or even a few years in business, as
I have, would know that compromise
means you deal with the entirety of
the problem. You negotiate the prob-
lem, and you get an answer that moves
it forward rather than say: Some
things are out of bounds; we are not
going to talk about that.
The part I like now, lately, is: We
will talk about it later; we promise we
will.
There is a song about that. It is
called, ‘‘Tomorrow, Tomorrow.’’
Sorry. Now is the time to deal with
it. Now is the time. And I agree: Hav-
ing people not paid—my dad was an
autoworker. He was laid off multiple
times. Missing two paychecks is brutal.
There is an answer to that. It is called
negotiate.
It is important that Members of the
House and Senate and the leadership
take seriously the President’s pro-
posals, go to a room, close the door,
and negotiate rather than say, as has
been said by the current Speaker: zero
dollars for the wall, maybe a dollar.
I don’t care if you call it a wall. I
don’t care if you call it a steel slat. I
don’t care if you call it a barrier. But
we need security at the southern bor-
der. Why is it we can’t have that now?
Further, we have to end this and pay
our Federal workers. We must end this
crisis and pay the workers. There is a
route there.
Rather than spend 338 hours on the
floor—in this whole posturing, this
whole profiling—sit in a room and
spend 10 percent of that time, 33 hours,
in one room. My guess is you would
come to an answer on the problem.
Why are we not doing that? Why are
we not doing that? Our Democrats on
the other side of the aisle obstruct peo-
ple being paid.
Last week, we proposed an amend-
ment that would have, in fact, retro-
actively opened the government to pay
Federal employees. Six Democrats
joined us in that—only six—and it was
defeated.
Again, if you want to pay the em-
ployees, pay them; don’t use them as
hostages, as you have.
A couple summaries I wish to make:
First, these are not the same bills that
you claim were bipartisan bills that
passed appropriations. As my colleague
has noted, significant items have been
pulled out of that—life protections. I
will go through a list. So they are not
the same bills.
Let’s be honest on the floor and at
least call them what they are. They are
Democratic versions of the previous
bills that they put through.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Michigan an addi-
tional 2 minutes.
Mr. MITCHELL. One of the questions
I posed for my colleagues: Why is it
okay to begin running reelection cam-
paigns now for an election to go 2 years
from now? Why is it okay for the Presi-
dential campaigns to start on the
backs of these workers and the south-
ern border?
Someone answer that question for
me, because that is what is happening.
That is what is happening all over the
country. That is what is happening on
TV.
b 1300
This is now the cause for which peo-
ple are going to run campaigns. And,
frankly, as a result, yeah, we have gov-
ernment by blackmail, but the black-
mail is going on by the other side of
the aisle that insists they will only
talk about certain components of this,
but not all of it, because they have now
decided it is not politically expedient
as they are getting ready to run for of-
fice—some getting ready, apparently,
to run for President—and they want to
use this as leverage.
We can solve this problem in 1 day. I
encourage my colleagues to do so. Get
the Speaker of the House, the minority
leader, majority leader of the Senate,
the minority leader of the Senate, and
the President in a room, close the door,
and don’t come out until you have an
answer that they all agree to. How
hard is it to understand that concept?
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me say, I think we have agree-
ment here. We all want to open the
government. We all want to reopen the
government. I think the difference here
is that we have no preconditions on re-
opening the government. My Repub-
lican friends do have preconditions,
and it is whatever the President de-
cides he wants to tack on at the last
minute.
So there is a difference here. We have
no preconditions. Open the government
up, start paying all of our Federal
workers, let’s get our country back to
normal here in terms of the Federal
workforce, but my Republican friends
have all these strings that they want
to attach to it.
The gentleman from Michigan said,
you know, he refers to one of the
‘‘gotcha’’ amendments that the Repub-
licans offered on backpay for Federal
workers. I should remind him that we
actually passed a law here, S. 24, which
created an entitlement to backpay for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.029 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1017
January 23, 2019
Federal workers who aren’t getting
paid during the shutdown. So we actu-
ally dealt with that here. We actually
passed a law, and, that, he may not
have known that.
I should also say to my Republican
friends, understand that the American
people are not on your side on this.
There is a recent ‘‘CBS News’’ poll—7
in 10 Americans do not think the issue
of a border wall is worth a government
shutdown—7 in 10.
Now, I know there is this—you know,
the President is worried about that 25,
30 percent of his base, but the vast ma-
jority of the people in this country
aren’t with him on this. They are not
with you on this by not stepping up
and saying we ought to reopen our gov-
ernment.
You want to have a negotiation on
border security, we have lots of ideas
to enhance border security, and that is
based on conversations with people on
the border who talk about increased
technology, who talk about better in-
frastructure, who talk about more per-
sonnel, you know, more asylum judges.
I can go on and on and on. We are all
for that. Let’s continue that conversa-
tion.
But why in the world does this Presi-
dent insist on shutting the government
down until he gets his way on this bor-
der wall? This is not the way you do a
negotiation. And, again, if you want to
reopen the government, and we do, we
have no conditions. Reopen the govern-
ment. It is that simple.
And the bills—the gentleman from
Michigan talked about bills that the
Senate would pass. Some of the bills
that we are sending over to the Senate
passed unanimously. Boy, I mean, if
that is not a signal that they over-
whelmingly agree with the substance
of these bills, I don’t know what is, but
they did. They voted unanimously, in
some cases, for some of these bills we
are sending over here.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
an article from ‘‘The Washington Post’’
titled: ‘‘Unacceptable: Coast Guard’s
top officer criticizes lack of payment
in government shutdown.’’
[From the Washington Post, Jan. 22, 2019]
‘UNACCEPTABLE’: COAST GUARD’S TOP OFFICER
CRITICIZES LACK OF PAYMENT IN GOVERN-
MENT SHUTDOWN
(By Dan Lamothe)
The Coast Guard’s top admiral said Tues-
day that members of the armed forces should
not be expected to shoulder the burden of the
partial government shutdown, citing the
‘‘anxiety and stress’’ it is causing military
families as their pay is withheld.
Adm. Karl Schultz, the Coast Guard com-
mandant, said he is heartened by the out-
pouring of support Coast Guard personnel
have received across the country but expects
more.
‘‘Ultimately, I find it unacceptable that
Coast Guard men and women have to rely on
food pantries and donations to get through
day-to-day life as service members,’’ he said,
speaking on a video posted to his Twitter ac-
count.
The comments marked the admiral’s most
forceful remarks about the shutdown since it
began 32 days ago amid a dispute over Presi-
dent Trump’s demands for funding for a
southern border wall. While the majority of
the U.S. military is part of the Defense De-
partment and has funding, the Department
of Homeland Security and is agencies, in-
cluding the Coast Guard, are affected by the
shutdown.
About 41,000 active-duty service members
and 2,100 civilians who are considered ‘‘essen-
tial personnel’’ are working without a pay-
check under the promise they will get back
pay when the shutdown is resolved, said Lt.
Cmdr. Scott McBride, a service spokesman.
That situation grew more urgent Jan. 15,
when service members missed a paycheck.
An additional 6,000 civilians working for the
service are furloughed.
Overall, about 800,000 federal workers are
not receiving paychecks amid the shutdown,
with nearly half furloughed.
Schultz, appearing alongside the service’s
top enlisted man, Master Chief Petty Officer
of the Coast Guard Jason M. Vanderhaden,
noted that civilian employees will miss an-
other paycheck Friday and called it a ’sober-
ing’’ situation.
Senior Coast Guard officials and the Amer-
ican public, he said, ‘‘stand in awe’’ of the af-
fected service members’ ’continued dedica-
tion to duty and resilience’’ and that of their
families.
The admiral, in keeping with the mili-
tary’s tradition of not commenting directly
on politics, did not blame anyone specific for
the shutdown. He and Homeland Security
Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen are making their
case for the service on Capitol Hill, Schultz
said.
The Coast Guard has continued to carry
out operations across the globe during the
shutdown.
On Sunday, the Coast Guard Cutter
Bertholf departed from Alameda, Calif., with
about 170 people aboard for a deployment to
the Pacific that will last up to six months.
The Defense Department will reimburse the
service for the deployment, but Coast Guard
personnel still will not be paid until the
shutdown is resolved.
‘‘The crew, like all other [Coast Guard]
members, are affected by the lapse of appro-
priations, and are not being paid,’’ said Lt.
Cmdr. Steve Brickey, a service spokesman.
‘‘It is always difficult to deploy for months
and leave behind family and loved ones. That
stress is of course magnified when you add
on the uncertainly of the shutdown.’’
Mr. MCGOVERN. Admiral Schultz,
the Coast Guard’s commandant said:
‘‘Ultimately, I find it unacceptable
that Coast Guard men and women have
to rely on food pantries and donations
to get through day-to-day life as serv-
icemembers.’’
In total, 41,000 Active Duty service-
members and 2,100 civilians are essen-
tial personnel and working without pay
and have been for 33 days now. An addi-
tional 6,000 are furloughed. As of this
Friday, these brave men and women
will have missed two paychecks. That
is unacceptable.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
an article titled: ‘‘America’s veterans
said to be disproportionately affected
by government shutdown.’’
[From ABC News, Jan. 9, 2019]
AMERICA’S VETERANS SAID TO BE DISPROPOR-
TIONATELY AFFECTED BY GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN
(By Elizabeth McLaughlin)
As the partial government shutdown con-
tinues for a third week, veterans groups are
sounding the alarm because of what they say
is the disproportionate impact on America’s
veterans and a growing fear that financial
uncertainty could lead to self-harm.
An estimated one-third of the federal
workforce is made up of veterans, according
to the Office of Personnel Management,
meaning that more than 250,000 veterans are
not currently receiving paychecks.
‘‘This shutdown has consequences that go
beyond loss of pay,’’ the Union Veterans
Council said in a statement this week. ‘‘Fi-
nancial instability is one of the main cause
of suicides among the veterans’ community.
These hard-working men and women who
sacrificed so much for their country should
not have their families held hostage by law-
makers that cannot relate to living pay-
check to paycheck.’’
Edward M. Canales is a local union presi-
dent with the American Federation of Gov-
ernment Employees and a veteran liaison of-
ficer who serves as a resource to veterans
working in the U.S. Bureau of Prisons west
of the Mississippi River.
He told ABC News that he’s received nu-
merous calls from veterans who aren’t able
to support their families during the shut-
down and express ‘‘no positive outlook on
the future.’’
‘‘If this shutdown does not stop, we are
going to have fatalities. We’re going to have
suicides,’’ he said.
Canales, a U.S. Army veteran himself who
deployed to Iraq during Operation Desert
Storm, said he is referring calls to the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs hotline out of
concern that a veteran will self-harm.
He called the shutdown ‘‘shameful,’’ saying
its ‘‘slapping every veteran in the face who
has served their country.’’
As a special investigative service techni-
cian who worked in the federal prison system
for 26 years, Canales is currently not receiv-
ing his retirement pay.
Toby Hauck, a six-year Air Force veteran,
is an air traffic controller in Aurora, Illinois,
who has gone without a paycheck since Dec.
31. He told ABC News that his father and
grandfather served in the U.S. military and
now his son and daughter-in-law are deploy-
ing overseas at the end of the month.
Hauck and his wife, a neonatal intensive
care unit nurse, will be looking after their
two-and-a-half-year-old granddaughter dur-
ing the ten-month deployment, and the con-
tinued lack of pay causes added stress to
their already hectic jobs, he said.
‘‘We are hardworking, proud American em-
ployees doing a job for the American public
that is essential as an air traffic controller,’’
said Hauck, who is also a representative for
the National Air Traffic Controllers Associa-
tion. ‘‘It’s not acceptable as a veteran, as a
federal employee, as an air traffic controller
to use my profession and my livelihood as a
political football.’’
‘‘[Veterans] are very proud of our heritage
and what we’ve done for the country. And
those of us who continue to serve the federal
government as a federal employee continue
that pride throughout their careers,’’ he
added.
Mr. MCGOVERN. The Union Veterans
Council said in a statement this week,
‘‘Financial instability is one of the
main causes of suicide among the vet-
erans’ community. These hardworking
men and women who sacrificed so
much for their country should not have
their families held hostage by law-
makers that cannot relate to living
paycheck to paycheck.’’
According to the Office of Personnel
Management, one-third of the Federal
workforce is made up of veterans. That
means 250,000 veterans are not receiv-
ing paychecks right now during this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.031 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1018 January 23, 2019
Trump shutdown. That is an absolute
disgrace.
Mr. Speaker, as the Trump shutdown
continues, hundreds of Internal Rev-
enue Service employees have received
permission to skip work due to finan-
cial hardships, and absences are only
expected to grow.
I would like to share a story about
Marissa Scott, an IRS employee who is
gravely affected by this Trump shut-
down. Ms. Scott lives outside of Kansas
City, Missouri. She drives 98 miles
roundtrip to work each day. Right now,
she cannot afford to fill her gas tank
and has stopped going to work.
She shared that she typically helps 50
people a day with their tax returns and
fears that this shutdown may cause
delays in tax refunds for months as
more employees like her are unable to
continue working without a paycheck.
These are tax refunds that Americans
rely on and are eagerly waiting to be
processed.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
an article from ‘‘The Washington Post’’
titled: ‘‘Hundreds of IRS employees are
skipping work. That could delay tax re-
funds.’’ It also details Ms. Scott’s
story.
[From the Washington Post, Jan. 22, 2019]
HUNDREDS OF IRS EMPLOYEES ARE SKIPPING
WORK. THAT COULD DELAY TAX REFUNDS
(By Danielle Paquette, Lisa Rein, Jeff Stein
and Kimberly Kindy)
Hundreds of Internal Revenue Service em-
ployees have received permission to skip
work during the partial government shut-
down due to financial hardship, and union
leaders said Tuesday that they expected ab-
sences to surge as part of a coordinated pro-
test that could hamper the government’s
ability to process taxpayer refunds on time.
The Trump administration last week or-
dered at least 30,000 IRS workers back to
their offices, where they have been working
to process refunds without pay. It was one of
the biggest steps the government has taken
to mitigate the shutdown’s impact on Ameri-
cans’ lives.
But IRS employees across the country—
some in coordinated protest, others out of fi-
nancial necessity—won’t be clocking in, ac-
cording to Tony Reardon, president of the
National Treasury Employees Union, and
several local union officials. The work action
is widespread and includes employees from a
processing center in Ogden, Utah, to the
Brookhaven campus on New York’s Long Is-
land.
The move is the leading edge of pushback
from within the IRS, and it signals the po-
tential for civil servants to take actions that
could slow or cripple government functions
as the shutdown’s political stalemate con-
tinues in Washington. U.S. Department of
Agriculture meat inspectors have begun to
call in sick, Transportation Security Admin-
istration sickouts at airports have been ris-
ing, and federal law enforcement agencies
say the shutdown is increasing stress among
agents and affecting investigations.
‘‘They are definitely angry that they’re
not getting paid, and maybe some of them
are angry enough to express their anger this
way,’’ said Reardon, whose union represents
150,000 employees at 33 federal agencies and
departments. ‘‘But these employees live pay-
check to paycheck, and they can’t scrape up
the dollars to get to work or pay for child
care.’’
Not receiving pay for more than a month
has taken a toll on employees across the
government, but especially on those who are
not in high-salary jobs. The employees sum-
moned back from furlough to process tax re-
funds are paid between $25,800 and $51,000 a
year, depending on their seniority. IRS em-
ployees will miss a second paycheck Monday
if the government does not reopen this week.
‘‘I’m at the point where I cannot afford to
go to work,’’ said Marissa Scott, 31, an IRS
customer service representative who is out
on hardship leave. Scott lives outside Kansas
City, Mo., and drives 98 miles round trip to
work each day. ‘‘I cannot afford to fill my
gas tank.’’
Scott, who has worked at the IRS for four
years, says she typically helps as many as 50
people a day with their returns during tax
season, including U.S. troops stationed over-
seas. She said the shutdown could delay re-
funds for months, and without employees
like her on the job, ‘‘it’s going to be a dis-
aster all around.’’
Many of the IRS employees who are choos-
ing not to come to work despite getting
called back are taking advantage of a provi-
sion in the union contract that allows them
to miss work if they suffer a ‘‘hardship’’ dur-
ing a shutdown, according to the labor
groups.
That could mean a blown car tire, an
empty gas tank or a child-care bill.
‘‘I have fielded no less than 30 to 40 calls,
emails or text messages about hardship re-
quests from employees daily since Thurs-
day,’’ said Shannon Ellis, president of the
NTEU’s Chapter 66 in Kansas City.
In Andover, Mass., more than 100 customer
service representatives, electronic filing
workers and other IRS employees plan to use
the hardship exemption and won’t report to
work, said Gary Karibian, chapter president
of a local union.
‘‘I would say a majority of employees are
calling out under hardship,’’ Karibian said.
‘‘I’m getting reports whole teams are re-
questing out. One person told me, ‘I’m the
only one on my team here.’ ’’
The union lacks an official head count of
absent workers—the IRS declined to share
data on hardship exemptions—but staffers in
Fresno, Calif.; Austin; Andover; Kansas City
and Atlanta, among other locations, say
they won’t be showing up for work, Reardon
said.
Duncan Giles, who has worked for 24 years
at an IRS call center in Indianapolis, said
more workers are requesting hardship leave
as they learn it exists.
‘‘The more this goes on and the tougher it
is to get to work—they simply cannot afford
it,’’ said Giles, president of NTEU Chapter
49, noting that about 30 of the 170 employees
who have been called back to work in Indian-
apolis have requested the exemption. ‘‘Every
single person wants to be at work. They
want to help the American taxpayer. But we
have to pay for gas and child care.’’
The hardship exemption allows IRS em-
ployees not to have to use sick days to be ab-
sent from work, and managers must approve
the exemptions.
Lawmakers also have heard reports of IRS
staffers intending to miss work and are plan-
ning to ask Treasury, Secretary Steven
Mnuchin for details when he testifies on Cap-
itol Hill this Thursday, a House aide said.
The IRS declined to say how many workers
are on hardship leave, and spokesman Matt
Leas said the IRS is continuing its work to
prepare for the beginning of filing season
next week.
‘‘We are continuing our recall operations,
and we continue to assess the situation at
this time,’’ Leas said.
The IRS employees’ moves come amid
broad uncertainty about the Trump adminis-
tration’s attempts to minimize the impact of
the shutdown. On Sunday, the number of
TSA agents who failed to show up for work
hit a record 10 percent, resulting in long wait
times. Guards at federal prisons also are
calling out at high rates, with union officials
at 10 prisons contacted by The Washington
Post this month saying the number of em-
ployees skipping work has doubled.
As a result, officers who report for duty
often are working 16–hour shifts, and prison
secretaries and janitors are being forced to
patrol the halls and yards.
‘‘All I have is pepper spray and a radio to
call for help,’’ said 52-year-old Opal Brown,
who works as a secretary at Hazelton Fed-
eral Correctional Institution in West Vir-
ginia.
The FBI Agents Association said in a re-
port Tuesday that the shutdown is ham-
pering the ability of agents to perform their
‘‘duties and fund necessary operations and
investigations.’’
USDA meat inspectors also have begun
calling in sick—in numbers large enough to
trigger an agency crackdown. The inspectors
were told Jan. 11 to bring in a doctor’s note,
even if they were ill for a single day, records
show.
Six days later, after protests from union
leaders, agency officials reverted to existing
policy, which calls for a doctor’s note after
three days.
Some front-line managers at the IRS have
threatened their employees and said they
could lose their jobs if they put in for the ex-
emption, but Reardon, the union leader, said
most have been instructed by senior manage-
ment to approve the requests.
IRS employees are some of the most
impactful federal workers caught in the mid-
dle of the shutdown, as the tax filing season
begins and millions of Americans are ex-
pected to seek tax refunds in February. Last
year, more than $140 billion in tax refunds
was paid out through early March, according
to IRS data.
Trump has expressed an interest in making
sure that tax refunds are paid out next
month, believing that if they are delayed he
could face major public backlash. His budget
office took the unprecedented step this
month of ordering thousands of unpaid IRS
workers back to the office, saying that proc-
essing refunds was an ‘‘essential’’ govern-
ment function even if the workers weren’t
paid.
As much as 75 percent of the roughly 4,000
furloughed IRS employees in Kansas City
could qualify for hardship leave, said Chris-
tina Bennett, executive vice president of the
local National Treasury Employees Union
chapter.‘‘Right now, they’re being lenient,’’
Bennett said.
Employees who process tax refunds, she
said, are among the lowest-paid IRS workers.
Some are worried about losing their cars.
Bennett, 63, who has worked nearly four
decades at the IRS, most recently as an ac-
countant, said she, too, can no longer afford
her commute. She plans to request hardship
leave if the government calls her back to
work.
‘‘I just don’t have it,’’ she said. ‘‘I’d have
to walk a half-hour to get to a bus stop. And
it’s so cold. We’ve got rain, snow, rain,
snow.’’
Sakeya Cooks, 24, another IRS worker who
guides taxpayers through the refund process,
said she might never report back to work.
She already has applied for a new job at a
Kansas City bank.
‘‘How am I supposed to live like this?’’ she
said. ‘‘I’m worried about losing my apart-
ment.’’
John Koskinen, a former IRS commis-
sioner, said federal employees are dedicated
to the agency’s mission but might be reach-
ing their breaking point.
‘‘As you put more and more pressure on
the system, you increase the risk of a signifi-
cant glitch,’’ Koskinen said. ‘‘If I were the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.033 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1019
January 23, 2019
administration, I’d be troubled. The pressure
is going to mount.’’
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I wasn’t kidding when I
said I was looking for the olive branch
in what my friend had to say. I genu-
inely believe, if you lock me and the
gentleman from Massachusetts in a
room together for 24, 48, maybe 72 or 96
hours, we could come to a solution and
get us out of this box. But it does take
sitting down with people that you trust
to get a hard negotiation done.
I shared in the Rules Committee the
other night, Mr. Speaker, and I will
share with you today, the story of one
of my constituents. His name is Doug
Jenkins, and this is his story:
Jeanette Jenkins, age 76, of
Lawrenceville, Georgia, passed away on
Saturday, April 28, 2018. Jeanette was a
member of Hebron Baptist Church for
over 25 years and currently a member
of First Baptist Church of Atlanta.
Jeanette had a passion for serving in
many capacities of the ministry, as a
Sunday school teacher and volun-
teering in various activities. She was
an avid reader and enjoyed sewing. She
is survived by her loving husband of 57
years, Doug.
Jeanette didn’t die of natural causes
on April 28, Mr. Speaker. She was just
running out to pick up some drugs at
the drugstore. Her husband stayed at
home. She was leaving the subdivision,
waited for the light to turn green, and
pulled out, when a van full of gentle-
men who should not have been in this
country, who were not in this country
legally, ran that red light and killed
her. She never recovered consciousness;
died in the hospital later on that
evening.
We can describe the President of the
United States and his commitment to
border security as a temper tantrum,
but it is not true. We can describe the
President of the United States and his
commitment to border security as
some sort of political fixation, but it is
not true.
The stories that my friends tell
about Federal employees missing pay-
checks, those are painful, those are
hard, and we can do better. But the sto-
ries that each and every one of us have
about members in our community who
have lost loved ones, not for a week,
not for 2 weeks, but forever, because we
didn’t do our job protecting American
borders—I want to do better.
I was pleased to see the President
talk about agricultural visas and how
he wanted to expand those programs. It
is important to us in Georgia. I am ex-
cited about EB visas, trying to get
more investment in this country. We
need more. I come from a community
of immigrants. America’s history is
founded in immigration, and our future
is founded there, too.
But nobody else could have protected
Jeanette Jenkins. Nobody. My local
law enforcement can’t do it. My gov-
ernor can’t do it. That responsibility
falls to the national government and
the national government alone. The
President campaigned on it; the Presi-
dent was elected on it; and we have an
opportunity to come together and do
it.
I don’t want to kick the can down the
road for another year. I don’t want to
kick the can down the road for another
decade. I don’t want to have another
Jenkins family come into my office
and say: Rob, where were you? What
did you do when you had an oppor-
tunity to make a difference?
I regret that we are in the box that
we are in. It is a box of our own mak-
ing. But we can get out of it, and we
can make America better as a result of
it. It doesn’t have to be a lose-lose. It
can be a win-win.
Nobody is winning today. Nobody has
benefited by the shutdown today. I can-
not negotiate by myself. The President
cannot negotiate by himself. We need
folks to say ‘‘yes’’ to the invitation.
Take the gentleman from Michigan’s
advice: Ask your leadership, as we have
asked ours, to lock yourself in that
room together and don’t come out
until you have an answer.
My friend from Massachusetts says
he has no preexisting stipulations
about what the package has to look
like. I hope that is true. It has not been
my experience—stripping out all the
pro-life provisions, for example. That
was something that your conference
wanted. Not working on the CFPB pro-
visions that the Financial Services
Committee had done, not including
those 20 bipartisan bills, there are con-
ditions that folks have, as they should,
because they were elected to this
House, and they are obligated to serve
their constituents.
We can get this done, Mr. Speaker,
but I commit to you, we are not going
to get it done by pointing the finger of
blame at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. We
are going to get it done by coming to-
gether right here and doing our job, the
task the Constitution assigns to us,
and, that is, agreeing on a provision
amongst ourselves and sending it to
the President for him to accept or to
reject.
I believe in what we can do together,
Mr. Speaker, and I hope my colleagues
will again take ‘‘yes’’ to an invitation
to the negotiating table as an answer.
Mr. Speaker, with that, I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me just say, at the outset here,
that if we all agree that the govern-
ment should be reopened, then what is
there to negotiate about? We should
just open up the government.
We have no preconditions about
opening up the government. We have
none. The gentleman from Georgia ap-
parently has a precondition: whatever
the President’s whim is on a particular
day. Yeah, the President did campaign
on building a wall, but he didn’t get up
there and say: We want to build a wall
and you pay for it, American tax-
payers. What he campaigned on was
saying: I want to build a wall, and Mex-
ico is going to pay for it.
Well, he has had 2 years, and, obvi-
ously, he can’t get Mexico to pay for it,
so he wants to saddle the American
taxpayers with that bill.
So, look, the bottom line is, we be-
lieve that border security is an impor-
tant issue, and we, on this side, have
been more than willing to invest in
border security, and we are going to
continue to do that.
As I mentioned before to the gen-
tleman, President Trump’s shutdown
has put a strain on local and Federal
law enforcement, undermining co-
operation between them that helps
keep our communities safe. While he is
having his temper tantrum, you know,
our local law enforcement officials are
feeling the strain. That is why local
law enforcement leaders across the
country, including those serving in
border States, are calling for an end to
the shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter to President Trump and Mem-
bers of Congress.
[From the Law Enforcement Immigration
Task Force, Jan. 22, 2019]
LAW ENFORCEMENT LEADERS CALL FOR AN
END TO SHUTDOWN
DEAR PRESIDENT TRUMP AND MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS: As law enforcement leaders who
support commonsense immigration reforms
consistent with public safety, we write to ex-
press our deep concern with the partial shut-
down of the federal government.
State and local law enforcement work con-
structively with federal law enforcement to
combat drug trafficking, gangs, organized
crime, and other threats. In addition, the
federal government provides needed training,
equipment, and funding to state and local
law enforcement agencies—support that is
now threatened by the ongoing shutdown. A
prolonged shutdown threatens this coopera-
tion and strains local resources. It also nega-
tively impacts our colleagues in federal law
enforcement, forcing essential law enforce-
ment personnel to work without pay. These
circumstances threaten public safety and
cannot continue.
Instead, we call on Congress and the
Trump administration to reopen the federal
government without delay and work to-
gether on bipartisan solutions to improve
our immigration system. We believe there is
room for compromise.
While there are partisan disagreements
over the need for a border wall across our en-
tire southern border, there is widespread
agreement over commonsense steps that can
improve border security. A bipartisan deal
can build on these areas of agreement, im-
proving border security by focusing on ports
of entry, strategically deploying and using
technology and ensuring that CBP has clear
sight lines all along the Rio Grande. With
nearly 700 miles of physical barriers already
in place along the southern border, these tar-
geted investments in border security can
contribute to improving public safety and re-
assuring the American people that the bor-
der is a priority.
Similarly, bipartisan immigration reform
will benefit the United States as a whole. We
believe that immigrants should feel safe in
their communities and comfortable calling
upon law enforcement to report crimes, serv-
ing as witnesses, and calling for help in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.007 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1020 January 23, 2019
emergencies. By reforming our immigration
system to bring undocumented immigrants
into the legal immigration system, immi-
grants are incentivized to become construc-
tive partners with local police in public safe-
ty initiatives. Bipartisan immigration re-
form can provide undocumented immigrants
with an opportunity to earn citizenship, re-
quiring them to pay a fine and back taxes
and pass a background check, encouraging
further civic responsibility. This would im-
prove community policing and safety for ev-
eryone.
The current impasse is an opportunity for
Congress and the Trump administration to
strike a bipartisan agreement to end the
shutdown and fix our immigration system.
The shutdown prevents state and local law
enforcement agencies from having access to
needed federal resources, strains federal law
enforcement personnel, and undermines co-
operation between state, federal, and local
law enforcement.
We urge Congress and the Trump adminis-
tration to break this deadlock and improve
public safety by reopening the government
without delay and working to reach a bipar-
tisan compromise that includes common-
sense border security as part of a comprehen-
sive reform of the immigration system.
Thank you,
Chief Art Acevedo, LEITF Co-Chair, Hous-
ton, TX; Chief J. Thomas Manger, LEITF Co-
Chair, Montgomery County, MD; Executive
Director Dwayne Crawford, National Organi-
zation of Black Law Enforcement Executives
(NOBLE); Executive Director Chuck Wexler,
Police Executive Research Forum (PERF);
Chief Ramon Batista, Mesa, AZ; Chief Roy
Bermudez, Nogales, AZ; Sheriff Tony
Estrada, Santa Cruz County, AZ; Chief Chris
Magnus, Tucson, AZ; Chief Steve Stahl, Mar-
icopa, AZ; Chief Roberto Villasenor, Retired,
Tucson, AZ; Chief David Valentin, Santa
Ana, CA; Sheriff Joe DiSalvo, Pitkin County,
CO; Chief Dwight Henninger, Vail, CO; Chief
Peter Newsham, Washington, DC; Chief Or-
lando Rolon, Orlando, FL; Sheriff Paul H.
Fitzgerald, Story County, IA; Chief Wayne
Jerman, Cedar Rapids, IA; Director of Public
Safety Mark Prosser, Storm Lake, IA; Chief
Mike Tupper, Marshalltown, IA; Sheriff John
Idleburg, Lake County, IL.
Chief Michael Diekhoff, Bloomington, IN;
Chief Scott Ruszkowski, South Bend, IN;
Chief Ron Teachman, Retired, South Bend,
IN; Chief James Hawkins, Retired, Garden
City, KS; Commissioner William Gross, Bos-
ton, MA; Chief Brian Kyes, Chelsea, MA;
Sheriff Kevin Joyce, Cumberland County,
ME; Sheriff Jerry Clayton, Washtenaw Coun-
ty, MI; Chief Ron Haddad, Dearborn, MI;
Chief Todd Axtell, Saint Paul, MN; Sheriff
Mike Haley, Retired, Washoe County, NV;
Chief Cel Rivera, Lorain, OH; Public Safety
Commissioner Steven Pare, Providence, RI;
Chief Fred Fletcher, Retired, Chattanooga,
TN; Chief Frank Dixon, Denton, TX; Sheriff
Ed Gonzalez, Harris County, TX; Chief Andy
Harvey, Palestine, TX; Sheriff Sally Her-
nandez, Travis County, TX; Chief Mike
Markle, Corpus Christi, TX; Sheriff Lupe
Valdez, Retired, Dallas County, TX.
Chief Mike Brown, Salt Lake City, UT;
Chief Chris Burbank, Retired/FBI National
Executive Institute Associates President,
Salt Lake City, UT; Sheriff Dana Lawhorne,
Alexandria, VA; Chief Carmen Best, Seattle,
WA; Sheriff Mitzi Johanknecht, King Coun-
ty, WA; Sheriff David J. Mahoney, Dane
County, WI.
Mr. MCGOVERN. ‘‘The New York
Times’’ reported yesterday that the
Trump shutdown has also impacted the
FBI’s efforts to crack down on child
trafficking, violent crime, and ter-
rorism, needlessly putting our commu-
nities and constituents at risk. I say to
my friends: Look at what you are doing
here. Look what is happening. This has
to end.
For example, a long-term MS–13 in-
vestigation that has resulted in 23 gang
indictments has been constrained be-
cause of the inability—get this—the in-
ability to pay for interpreters needed
to communicate with informants. That
is insane, Mr. Speaker.
b 1315
Mr. Speaker, I include that article
from The New York Times in the
RECORD.
[From the New York Times, Jan. 22, 2019]
REPORT SAYS SHUTDOWN IS IMPEDING F.B.I.’S
LAW ENFORCEMENT EFFORTS
(By Katie Benner)
WASHINGTON.—As the partial government
shutdown enters its fifth week, the funding
freeze has impeded F.B.I. efforts to crack
down on child trafficking, violent crime and
terrorism, according to a report issued Tues-
day by the group that represents the bu-
reau’s 13,000 special agents.
‘‘The resources available to support the
work of F.B.I. agents are currently stretched
to the breaking point and are dwindling day
by day,’’ said Thomas O’Connor, the presi-
dent of the group, the F.B.I. Agents Associa-
tion.
The report reflected the scope and serious-
ness of the shutdown’s effects, and came as
President Trump and the leaders of the two
parties on Capitol Hill maneuvered to find a
path out of the impasse. The Senate sched-
uled procedural votes for Thursday on com-
peting Republican and Democratic proposals,
although neither appears likely to win suffi-
cient support to pass.
The Justice Department, which oversees
the F.B.I., is one of the government agencies
affected by the partial shutdown, along with
the State Department, Transportation De-
partment, Agriculture Department, Interior
Department and others.
Mr. O’Connor said that national security
was directly related to the bureau’s financial
security. ‘‘It is critical to fund the F.B.I. im-
mediately,’’ he said.
Because of the shutdown, the F.B.I. has
been unable to issue grand jury subpoenas
and indictments in several cases cited in the
report.
An agent working on an MS–13 investiga-
tion that has gone on for more than three
years and resulted in 23 gang indictments for
racketeering, murder and money laundering
has been hamstrung by his inability to pay
for an interpreter who can communicate
with his Spanish-speaking informants, the
report said.
The bureau has also not been able to pay
its informants, an important source of intel-
ligence in terrorism, narcotics, gang, illegal
firearm and other national security cases.
The F.B.I. could lose those informants.
‘‘It is not a switch that we can turn on and
off,’’ the report said.
The 72-page report described how field of-
fices in some cases have run out of basic sup-
plies like tires for vehicles, copy paper and
forensic supplies like DNA swab kits, and do
not have the funds to buy replacements.
The F.B.I. is not the only part of the Jus-
tice Department struggling during the fund-
ing lapse. The department has had to ask the
federal courts to postpone some major civil
litigation, including a lawsuit over the law-
fulness of the Affordable Care Act, which the
department no longer defends in court.
The federal courts that hear Justice De-
partment cases are also running out of
money. The nation’s legal system could soon
be hobbled if Congress and the Trump admin-
istration cannot come to an agreement to re-
open the portions of government that have
been closed since last month. The federal
courts will run out of money by around Feb.
1, requiring them to cut back to essential
services at that point and furlough some
workers.
The F.B.I. Agents Association has been
warning of the negative effects of the shut-
down for nearly two weeks.
On Jan. 10, the association and representa-
tives from all of the F.B.I. field offices
signed a petition that said the shutdown
could create financial issues for agents that
would make it hard for them to pass the rou-
tine financial background checks necessary
for them to obtain certain security clear-
ances. They also said the pay freeze would
make it hard to retain and attract agents.
The latest report from the association,
which is based on the accounts of scores of
agents, outlines more dire consequences. The
group allowed the agents to speak anony-
mously to protect them from retaliation and
other negative repercussions.
Correction: Jan. 22, 2019—An earlier
version of this article incorrectly described
the F.B.I. Agents Association. It is a profes-
sional association, not a union.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, 40 mil-
lion Americans struggle with hunger
and food insecurity, and the Trump
shutdown has needlessly made this ter-
rible problem worse. Without funding
for USDA in place, access to SNAP
benefits for hungry families is threat-
ened. Millions and millions of people
will be affected.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a report from the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities titled ‘‘Many SNAP
Households Will Experience Long Gap
Between Monthly Benefits Even If
Shutdown Ends.’’
[From the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, Jan. 22, 2019]
MANY SNAP HOUSEHOLDS WILL EXPERIENCE
LONG GAP BETWEEN MONTHLY BENEFITS
EVEN IF SHUTDOWN ENDS
(By Dorothy Rosenbaum)
The Administration and states’ efforts to
issue February Supplemental Nutrition As-
sistance Program (SNAP, or food stamp)
benefits early to avoid deep benefit cuts in
that month that might otherwise have oc-
curred as a result of the partial government
shutdown have created a new problem: a
lengthy delay between February benefits
(which most beneficiaries received by Janu-
ary 20) and March benefits.
In turn, this will place additional strain on
the emergency food network and other com-
munity resources, which already are
stretched.
MOST HOUSEHOLDS RECEIVING FEBRUARY SNAP
BENEFITS IN JANUARY; MARCH SNAP BENEFITS
REMAIN UNCERTAIN AND AT RISK
The Department of Agriculture (USDA) an-
nounced on January 8 that it would work
with states to pay the vast majority of Feb-
ruary SNAP benefits early, by January 20, to
ensure that SNAP has the funding to stay
open through February 2019. Despite the
operational challenges of this approach, it
appears that every state was able to issue
benefits early, and in combination with
SNAP’s contingency reserve, there will be
sufficient federal funding to cover all Feb-
ruary SNAP benefits as a result.
These recent actions that USDA and states
have taken protect millions of low-income
households—including millions of poor chil-
dren, parents, elderly people, and people with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.008 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1021
January 23, 2019
disabilities—from having their basic food as-
sistance cut back substantially in February.
With a continuing shutdown, USDA would
have to issue additional guidance to states
explaining whether it has other options
available to cover all of March benefits, or if
not, how deep a benefit cut will be required
in March and how states should implement
it.
Ending the shutdown, and funding and re-
opening the Agriculture Department and
other parts of the government that now are
shuttered, would be the best way to avoid
cutting millions of households’ SNAP food
assistance. For the remainder of this paper,
we assume that SNAP will receive funding so
that full SNAP benefits can continue in
March and subsequent months—an assump-
tion that is far from assured.
MANY HOUSEHOLDS WILL HAVE A LONG SNAP
BENEFIT GAP EVEN IF THE SHUTDOWN ENDS
Some states may be able to adjust their
March issuance schedules to partly address
this issue, but if all states paid February
SNAP benefits on January 20 and don’t make
changes to their March issuance schedules,
we estimate that about 90 percent of SNAP
households that receive ongoing SNAP bene-
fits—about 15 million low-income house-
holds—will experience a more than 40-day
gap between issuances. Almost 60 percent
will experience a gap of more than 45 days,
and 25 percent will experience more than a
50-day gap.
States have long had the option to pay
SNAP benefits to different SNAP households
on different days of the month. Spreading
payments across multiple days evens state
workloads across the month and helps to en-
sure that retailers that participate in SNAP
do not face a severe increase in demand for
food and staffing on the day that SNAP ben-
efits become available. Any given household,
however, must receive its SNAP benefits on
or about the same day of the month, usually
resulting in only 28 to 31 days between SNAP
issuance dates. Only seven states issue SNAP
to all households in the state on the first day
of the month. Most others spread issuance
out, often over ten or 20 days, and usually
based on households’ Social Security or case
numbers or the first letter of the head of
household’s last name.
In fact, SNAP law requires that ‘‘no house-
hold experience an interval between
issuances of more than 40 days. It is not
clear whether USDA will waive this require-
ment in response to the unusual cir-
cumstances resulting from the shutdown—as
seems likely—or whether the agency will re-
quire states to develop an alternative
issuance schedule to avoid gaps of longer
than 40 days One possibility would be for
states to change March issuance to occur on
March 1, and to stagger the adjustment back
to households’ normal issuance cycle over
several months, as needed to stay within the
40-day maximum interval between issuances.
HOUSEHOLDS IN ALMOST ALL STATES WILL SEE
GAPS LONGER THAN 40 DAYS
The length of the gaps between February
and March issuances will vary by state, but
the vast majority will be longer than 40
days.
States where all households will have 40
days between SNAP issuances: Seven states,
accounting for about 2 percent of SNAP
issuances nationally, issue SNAP benefits to
all households on the first day of the month.
In these states, the gap for ongoing SNAP
households that received the early February
issuance on January 20 would be exactly 40
days, as households would receive their
March benefits on March 1. Those states are:
Alaska, Guam, Nevada, North Dakota, Rhode
Island, Vermont, and Virgin Islands.
States where households will have 40–49
days between SNAP issuances: Another 21
states issue all (or almost all) of their ongo-
ing SNAP benefits within the first ten days
of the month. In these states, SNAP house-
holds will experience a 40- to 49-day gap in
benefits. Those states are: California, Colo-
rado, Connecticut, District of Columbia, Ha-
waii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Montana,
Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey,
Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Da-
kota, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia,
and Wyoming.
States where some households will have 50
days or more between SNAP issuances:
About half the states have some households
that will have more than 50 days between
SNAP issuances if the states do not change
their issuance schedules. In states that issue
some SNAP benefits for ongoing SNAP
households after the 10th day of the month,
those households will have at least a 50-day
gap; households that typically receive their
benefits after the 15th day of the month will
have a gap of 55 days or more. These house-
holds account for much of these states’ ongo-
ing SNAP benefits: in 17 states, 50 percent or
more of benefits will be issued with at least
a 50-day gap.
LONG PERIOD BETWEEN SNAP ISSUANCES WILL
CAUSE HARDSHIP FOR SOME SNAP HOUSEHOLDS
Assuming SNAP has full funding to con-
tinue in March, SNAP households should
have available the same total amount of
SNAP benefits over the three-month period
(January through March) that they other-
wise would have. However, the change in the
timing of February’s issuance and the long
interval between January 20 and a March
SNAP issuance is likely to cause hardship
for some households and, as a result, in-
crease the demands for emergency food as-
sistance and other community services.
It’s well documented that SNAP benefits
normally run out for most households before
the end of the month. Within a week of re-
ceiving SNAP, households redeem over half
of their SNAP allotments. By the end of the
second week, SNAP households have re-
deemed over three-quarters of their benefits,
and by the end of the third week they have
redeemed 90 percent.
SNAP benefits are not intended to cover
the entire month for most households. The
SNAP benefit formula assumes that families
will spend 30 percent of their available cash
income for food. Many households spend
their SNAP benefits quickly because they
can only be spent on food. Cash income from
other sources is needed to pay for other ex-
penses, such as rent or mortgage, utilities,
essential non-food items, clothing, gasoline,
and car repairs. As a result, families use
their SNAP benefits first to make food pur-
chases, saving cash for other needed ex-
penses.
Moreover, SNAP benefits are low. SNAP is
intended to provide additional benefits to
meet the cost of the Thrifty Food Plan
(TFP), the Agriculture Department’s esti-
mate of a bare-bones, nutritionally adequate
diet. But substantial research has found that
the TFP, which currently provides at most
$1.85 per person per meal for a family of
three (the average benefit is about $1.40 per
person per meal), is not sufficient to meet
the needs of most low-income households.
Because SNAP benefits often fall short of
meeting basic monthly food needs, and be-
cause struggling households have to use
available cash to meet non-food expenses,
families can find themselves at the end of
their 30-day SNAP benefit payment cycle
without enough food or the resources avail-
able to buy more food. Research has found
that food spending, food consumption, and
diet quality fall and that food insecurity,
hospital admissions, and school disciplinary
problems rise after households have ex-
hausted their monthly SNAP benefits. SNAP
families often have to turn to social net-
works, food pantries, and others to get
through the month.
Given the experience of the strain on low-
income households’ budgets and community
resources under normal SNAP issuance pat-
terns—when the gap between SNAP
issuances is no more than 31 days—stretch-
ing that gap to 40 to 50 days or longer could
create substantial hardship and hunger and
sharply increase demand for local emergency
food providers and other community social
services providers.
Many SNAP households may find ways to
weather this disruption. In general, house-
holds that participate in SNAP demonstrate
a capacity to manage limited budgets. But
extending the time between monthly benefit
payments for the vast majority of SNAP
households will certainly cause difficulty for
some substantial number of poor families.
Many families may not be able to budget the
advance food-assistance benefit over an ex-
tended period of time for several reasons, in-
cluding:
Lack of information. USDA, state officials,
retailers, and state and local nonprofit
groups and charities are working to educate
SNAP households about the early issuance of
February benefits and the fact that those
households will not receive another issuance
in February. States are urging households to
factor the early payment and the delay until
a March payment into their February food
budget. But USDA did not require states to
send SNAP households individual notices
about the change in February benefits. In-
stead, states are trying to use newspaper sto-
ries, posts on their websites, fliers in local
welfare offices, and their partners’ networks
to spread the news about the changes in the
timing of SNAP benefit delivery. Many
households likely won’t understand that the
benefits they received around January 20 are
an early issuance of their February benefit
and that a lengthy gap will ensue before they
receive their next benefit insurance.
Confusion and misinformation. Reports are
emerging that there is considerable confu-
sion about why households are receiving
early SNAP benefits for February and what
to expect in the future, especially given the
uncertainty resulting from the government
shutdown. The confusion may result in some
SNAP households spending their SNAP bene-
fits relatively quickly, exacerbating their
food shortages in the latter part of February
and the first part of March.
Household income fluctuations or unex-
pected expenses. Households living with very
low incomes experience shocks to their
monthly income on a routine basis. Workers
can see their hours and pay reduced with lit-
tle warning. Individuals with monthly in-
come below the poverty line rarely have sav-
ings to manage unexpected expenses. If their
income drops or expenses spike unexpectedly
during this timeframe, perhaps because of a
high winter heating bill, households gen-
erally will use available cash to manage
their non-food needs, leaving less money to
buy food at the end of the SNAP payment
cycle.
Differing abilities among SNAP partici-
pants. Even with advance warning and ro-
bust information, some SNAP households
can struggle to manage a significant shift in
their budget, particularly those with cog-
nitive limitations. Managing a major month-
ly budget shift like this could be difficult for
some individuals with mental impairments
who do not receive assistance to manage
their benefits.
CONCLUSION
Even if the government shutdown is re-
solved quickly, the disruption in the timing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.010 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1022 January 23, 2019
of February SNAP benefits is likely to make
it hard for many SNAP households to meet
their basic food needs as they wait for their
March SNAP benefit payment. Some 30 mil-
lion people in about 15 million households—
the vast majority of SNAP households—will
not get their March benefit until at least 40
days after they received their February pay-
ment. Of these, 8 million people in more than
4 million households will need to wait more
than 50 days. This benefit disruption will
likely cause hardship for a substantial num-
ber of these households. We expect more
households to try to turn to emergency food
networks and other social services for help
as they seek to stretch their benefits across
more days.
Mr. MCGOVERN. The crisis already
has started. Access to food for SNAP
beneficiaries also is being threatened
by the shutdown, as reports indicate
that 2,500 retailers around the country
are unable to take any form of SNAP
EBT payments.
As PBS reported over the weekend,
the licenses for these retailers are on
hold due to the shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the transcript of the PBS story.
PBS NEWS HOUR: WHY MANY STORES CAN’T
ACCEPT FOOD STAMPS DURING THE SHUTDOWN
(Jan 17, 2019)
While so far there have been no major
lapses in benefits for the nearly 39 million
people who depend on food stamps amid the
partial government shutdown, 2,500 retailers
around the country are unable to take any
form of SNAP EBT payments.
Judy Woodruff:
With the government shutdown now in its
27th day, many federal programs have been
affected, including food stamps.
So far, there is no major lapse in benefits
used by nearly 39 million people each month.
That’s because of the U.S. Department of Ag-
riculture. It found a way to pay SNAP bene-
fits, as they are called, earlier than normal.
February benefits, awarded through a
debit-style card used at stores, are being
paid out this week. Several states, including
California and Florida, are warning users to
be careful and make sure they manage to
make the money last longer.
For 2,500 retailers, the problem is already
here. That’s because those stores needed to
renew a license for the Electronic Benefit
Transfer, or EBT debit card program, and
they failed to meet a deadline before the
shutdown. Those renewals, required every
five years, are on hold.
Sarah Jackson is an employee at one store
in Northern Arkansas.
Sarah Jackson:
We have been completely unable to take
any form of SNAP EBT payments. Grocery
stores need a license to process EBT pay-
ments, and ours expired and was unable to be
renewed on schedule because of the govern-
ment shutdown.
Because of an argument about a wall, I
have to look people in the eyes every day
and tell them they can’t pay for their food,
for their children’s food.
Judy Woodruff:
Sarah Jackson in Arkansas.
We reached out to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture for a response. A spokesperson
wrote back—quote—‘‘Over 99 percent of
SNAP retailers are able to accept benefits as
usual. There is a small percentage of stores
that failed to complete a required reauthor-
ization process that was due on December 21.
These stores can take steps to update their
status once funding is restored’’—end quote.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I
could go on and on and on about the
impacts here. If we all agree we should
end the shutdown, let’s just end the
shutdown.
Maybe my Republican friends should
be calling Senate Majority Leader
MITCH MCCONNELL to say, you know,
let’s come together and pass a bill to
reopen the government without any
conditions. That is what the American
people overwhelmingly want.
Mr. Speaker, I have heard my friends
on the other side of the aisle rushing to
congratulate the President for his so-
called compromise plan over the week-
end. Let me repeat: This is no com-
promise at all. Just read the fine print.
The Washington Post said simply:
‘‘The proposal on the Dreamers was
whittled down to the point where it
only undoes the disaster Trump him-
self is orchestrating.’’
That would be like an arsonist offer-
ing you a fire extinguisher to put out
the wildfire that they created. That is
a compromise? Are you kidding me?
I have an idea. Mr. President, stop
causing disasters. Congress should be
more than a cleanup crew for your
messes and failed policies.
Let me close with this, Mr. Speaker.
When I think of the best of the United
States, I think of the Statue of Lib-
erty. It wasn’t built from within our
borders. It was gifted to us by friends
from abroad, the French, to represent
the freedom that we stand for, to wel-
come all those immigrants who come
to this country, not to transport drugs
or crime, as the President portrays,
but to live a better life that they can
find only here in the United States.
When President Trump thinks of the
best of America, he dreams about a
concrete wall, something to prevent
immigrants from coming here, some-
thing that offends our allies, that
would make our country, a global lead-
er, turn away from the rest of the
world at a time when American leader-
ship is badly needed.
On top of all of that, a wall will not
work. It would be ineffective. If we
built a 50-foot wall, someone would
build a 51-foot ladder.
As I said, it is a medieval idea when
we have better solutions here in the
21st century: cameras, sensors, radar,
and drones. If anyone doubts that they
work, go visit the border, as I have.
Democrats are for border security.
The minibus includes $328 million in
new funding to help secure the border.
This is what professionals are asking
us for. A concrete wall is being dis-
cussed as a viable option only at the
President’s rallies and in the right-
wing media.
Here in the real world, hundreds of
thousands of people are struggling.
They need us to reopen the government
today, right now, not years from now,
as the President has suggested.
These bipartisan, bicameral bills will
get us there. This continuing resolu-
tion to fund the Department of Home-
land Security will get us there. Let’s
end this shutdown and reopen this gov-
ernment.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
this rule and the underlying bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time, and I move the previous
question on the resolution.
The previous question was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Passage of H.J. Res. 28;
Adoption of House Resolution 61; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
FURTHER ADDITIONAL CON-
TINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX and the order
of the House of January 17, 2019, the
unfinished business is the vote on pas-
sage of the joint resolution (H.J. Res.
28) making further continuing appro-
priations for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 229, nays
184, not voting 19, as follows:
[Roll No. 46]
YEAS—229
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jan 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H23JA9.REC H23JA9
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1023
January 23, 2019
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—184
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—19
Abraham
Cartwright
DeLauro
Duffy
Gibbs
Hartzler
Hastings
Jones
Kind
McNerney
Neal
Payne
Perry
Rooney (FL)
Sánchez
Sensenbrenner
Velázquez
Wilson (FL)
Wright
b 1344
Messrs. YOHO, ARRINGTON, Ms.
GRANGER, and Mr. GROTHMAN
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
So the joint resolution was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 648, CONSOLIDATED AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019; PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.J. RES. 31, FURTHER CON-
TINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY, 2019; PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES; AND
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on adoption
of the resolution (H. Res. 61) providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 648)
making appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; providing for consider-
ation of the joint resolution (H.J. Res.
31) making further continuing appro-
priations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019, and
for other purposes; providing for con-
sideration of motions to suspend the
rules; and waiving a requirement of
clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to
consideration of certain resolutions re-
ported from the Committee on Rules,
on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 223, nays
190, not voting 19, as follows:
[Roll No. 47]
YEAS—223
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—190
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.004 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1024 January 23, 2019
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—19
Abraham
Cartwright
DeLauro
Duffy
Gibbs
Hartzler
Hastings
Jones
Kind
McNerney
Neal
Payne
Perry
Rooney (FL)
Sánchez
Sensenbrenner
Velázquez
Wilson (FL)
Wright
b 1356
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably
detained and not able to be present on the
floor at the time of the vote.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 46 and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 47.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
HORSFORD). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the unfinished business is the
question on agreeing to the Speaker’s
approval of the Journal, which the
Chair will put de novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
ELECTING MEMBERS TO CERTAIN
STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the House Democratic Cau-
cus, I offer a privileged resolution and
ask for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 67
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing committees of the House of Rep-
resentatives:
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY: Ms.
Jackson Lee, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Richmond,
Mr. Payne, Miss Rice of New York, Mr.
Correa, Ms. Torres Small of New Mexico, Mr.
Rose of New York, Ms. Underwood, Ms.
Slotkin, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Green of Texas,
Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Titus, Mrs.
Watson Coleman, Ms. Barragán, and Mrs.
Demings.
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM:
Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms.
Norton, Mr. Clay, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Cooper,
Mr. Connolly, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr.
Raskin, Mr. Rouda, Ms. Hill of California,
Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr.
Welch, Ms. Speier, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr.
DeSaulnier, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Plaskett,
Mr. Khanna, Mr. Gomez, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez,
Ms. Pressley, and Ms. Tlaib.
COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND TECH-
NOLOGY: Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lipinski, Ms.
Bonamici, Mr. Bera, Mr. Lamb, Mrs. Fletch-
er, Ms. Stevens, Ms. Kendra S. Horn of Okla-
homa, Ms. Sherrill, Mr. Sherman, Mr.
McNerney, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Tonko, Mr.
Foster, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Crist, Mr. Casten of
Illinois, Ms. Hill of California, Mr. McAdams,
and Ms. Wexton.
Mr. JEFFRIES (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be considered as
read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 61, I call up the
bill (H.R. 648) making appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes, and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 61, the bill is
considered read.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 648
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Explanatory statement.
Sec. 5. Statement of appropriations.
Sec. 6. Availability of funds.
DIVISION A—AGRICULTURE, RURAL DE-
VELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Agricultural Programs
Title II—Farm Production and Conservation
Programs
Title III—Rural Development Programs
Title IV—Domestic Food Programs
Title V—Foreign Assistance and Related
Programs
Title VI—Related Agency and Food and Drug
Administration
Title VII—General Provisions
DIVISION B—COMMERCE, JUSTICE,
SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of Commerce
Title II—Department of Justice
Title III—Science
Title IV—Related Agencies
Title V—General Provisions
DIVISION C—FINANCIAL SERVICES AND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of the Treasury
Title II—Executive Office of the President
and Funds Appropriated to the
President
Title III—The Judiciary
Title IV—District of Columbia
Title V—Independent Agencies
Title VI—General Provisions—This Act
Title VII—General Provisions—Government-
wide
Title VIII—General Provisions—District of
Columbia
DIVISION D—DEPARTMENT OF THE INTE-
RIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of the Interior
Title II—Environmental Protection Agency
Title III—Related Agencies
Title IV—General Provisions
DIVISION E—DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED
PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of State and Related
Agency
Title II—United States Agency for Inter-
national Development
Title III—Bilateral Economic Assistance
Title IV—International Security Assistance
Title V—Multilateral Assistance
Title VI—Export and Investment Assistance
Title VII—General Provisions
Title VIII—Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism
DIVISION F—TRANSPORTATION, HOUS-
ING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND
RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
Title I—Department of Transportation
Title II—Department of Housing and Urban
Development
Title III—Related Agencies
Title IV—General Provisions—This Act
DIVISION G—OTHER MATTERS
Title I—Technical Corrections
Title II—Extensions of Authorities
Title III—Medicaid Extenders
Title IV—Budgetary Effects
SEC. 3. REFERENCES TO ACT.
Except as expressly provided otherwise,
any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ contained in any
division of this Act shall be treated as refer-
ring only to the provisions of that division.
SEC. 4. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.
The explanatory statement regarding this
Act, printed in the House section of the Con-
gressional Record on or about January 17,
2019, and submitted by the Chairwoman of
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House, shall have the same effect with re-
spect to the allocation of funds and imple-
mentation of divisions A through F of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.005 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1025
January 23, 2019
Act as if it were a joint explanatory state-
ment of a committee of conference.
SEC. 5. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.
The following sums in this Act are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019.
SEC. 6. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
Each amount designated in this Act by the
Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable)
only if the President subsequently so des-
ignates all such amounts and transmits such
designations to the Congress.
DIVISION A—AGRICULTURE, RURAL DE-
VELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINIS-
TRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH, AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $46,603,000, of which not to exceed
$5,051,000 shall be available for the imme-
diate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed
$800,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Assistant to the Secretary for Rural De-
velopment: Provided, That funds made avail-
able by this Act to an agency in the Rural
Development mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office; not
to exceed $1,496,000 shall be available for the
Office of Homeland Security; not to exceed
$4,711,000 shall be available for the Office of
Partnerships and Public Engagement; not to
exceed $23,176,000 shall be available for the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Admin-
istration, of which $22,301,000 shall be avail-
able for Departmental Administration to
provide for necessary expenses for manage-
ment support services to offices of the De-
partment and for general administration, se-
curity, repairs and alterations, and other
miscellaneous supplies and expenses not oth-
erwise provided for and necessary for the
practical and efficient work of the Depart-
ment: Provided further, That funds made
available by this Act to an agency in the Ad-
ministration mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office; not
to exceed $3,869,000 shall be available for the
Office of Assistant Secretary for Congres-
sional Relations to carry out the programs
funded by this Act, including programs in-
volving intergovernmental affairs and liai-
son within the executive branch; and not to
exceed $7,500,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Communications: Provided further,
That the Secretary of Agriculture is author-
ized to transfer funds appropriated for any
office of the Office of the Secretary to any
other office of the Office of the Secretary:
Provided further, That no appropriation for
any office shall be increased or decreased by
more than 5 percent: Provided further, That
not to exceed $22,000 of the amount made
available under this paragraph for the imme-
diate Office of the Secretary shall be avail-
able for official reception and representation
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the amount made available under this
heading for Departmental Administration
shall be reimbursed from applicable appro-
priations in this Act for travel expenses inci-
dent to the holding of hearings as required
by 5 U.S.C. 551–558: Provided further, That
funds made available under this heading for
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Con-
gressional Relations may be transferred to
agencies of the Department of Agriculture
funded by this Act to maintain personnel at
the agency level: Provided further, That no
funds made available under this heading for
the Office of Assistant Secretary for Con-
gressional Relations may be obligated after
30 days from the date of enactment of this
Act, unless the Secretary has notified the
Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress on the allocation of these
funds by USDA agency.
EXECUTIVE OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Economist, $21,286,000, of which
$5,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative
agreements for policy research under 7
U.S.C. 3155.
OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Hearings and Appeals, $15,222,000.
OFFICE OF BUDGET AND PROGRAM ANALYSIS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Budget and Program Analysis, $9,525,000.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Information Officer, $55,630,000, of
which not less than $38,000,000 is for cyberse-
curity requirements of the department.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer, $6,028,000.
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, $901,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Civil Rights mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $24,206,000.
AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For payment of space rental and related
costs pursuant to Public Law 92–313, includ-
ing authorities pursuant to the 1984 delega-
tion of authority from the Administrator of
General Services to the Department of Agri-
culture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and
activities of the Department which are in-
cluded in this Act, and for alterations and
other actions needed for the Department and
its agencies to consolidate unneeded space
into configurations suitable for release to
the Administrator of General Services, and
for the operation, maintenance, improve-
ment, and repair of Agriculture buildings
and facilities, and for related costs,
$59,967,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Department
of Agriculture, to comply with the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.) and the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,503,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That ap-
propriations and funds available herein to
the Department for Hazardous Materials
Management may be transferred to any
agency of the Department for its use in
meeting all requirements pursuant to the
above Acts on Federal and non-Federal
lands.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, including employment pur-
suant to the Inspector General Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $98,208,000,
including such sums as may be necessary for
contracting and other arrangements with
public agencies and private persons pursuant
to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.),
and including not to exceed $125,000 for cer-
tain confidential operational expenses, in-
cluding the payment of informants, to be ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General pursuant to the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.)
and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food
Act of 1981 (Public Law 97–98).
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
General Counsel, $45,146,000.
OFFICE OF ETHICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Ethics, $4,136,000.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND ECONOMICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Research, Education,
and Economics, $800,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Research, Education, and Economics
mission area for salaries and expenses are
available to fund up to one administrative
support staff for the Office.
ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the Economic
Research Service, $86,757,000.
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the National Ag-
ricultural Statistics Service, $174,517,000, of
which up to $45,300,000 shall be available
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:
Provided, That amounts made available for
the Census of Agriculture may be used to
conduct Current Industrial Report surveys
subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Research Service and for acquisition of lands
by donation, exchange, or purchase at a
nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land
exchanges where the lands exchanged shall
be of equal value or shall be equalized by a
payment of money to the grantor which
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total value
of the land or interests transferred out of
Federal ownership, $1,303,266,000, of which
$10,600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be used to carry out the science
program at the National Bio- and Agro-de-
fense Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas:
Provided, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available for the operation and
maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of
not to exceed one for replacement only: Pro-
vided further, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250
for the construction, alteration, and repair
of buildings and improvements, but unless
otherwise provided, the cost of constructing
any one building shall not exceed $500,000,
except for headhouses or greenhouses which
shall each be limited to $1,800,000, except for
10 buildings to be constructed or improved at
a cost not to exceed $1,100,000 each, and ex-
cept for two buildings to be constructed at a
cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, and the
cost of altering any one building during the
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the
current replacement value of the building or
$500,000, whichever is greater: Provided fur-
ther, That appropriations hereunder shall be
available for entering into lease agreements
at any Agricultural Research Service loca-
tion for the construction of a research facil-
ity by a non-Federal entity for use by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1026 January 23, 2019
Agricultural Research Service and a condi-
tion of the lease shall be that any facility
shall be owned, operated, and maintained by
the non-Federal entity and shall be removed
upon the expiration or termination of the
lease agreement: Provided further, That the
limitations on alterations contained in this
Act shall not apply to modernization or re-
placement of existing facilities at Beltsville,
Maryland: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available for grant-
ing easements at the Beltsville Agricultural
Research Center: Provided further, That the
foregoing limitations shall not apply to re-
placement of buildings needed to carry out
the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Pro-
vided further, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available for granting easements at
any Agricultural Research Service location
for the construction of a research facility by
a non-Federal entity for use by, and accept-
able to, the Agricultural Research Service
and a condition of the easements shall be
that upon completion the facility shall be
accepted by the Secretary, subject to the
availability of funds herein, if the Secretary
finds that acceptance of the facility is in the
interest of the United States: Provided fur-
ther, That funds may be received from any
State, other political subdivision, organiza-
tion, or individual for the purpose of estab-
lishing or operating any research facility or
research project of the Agricultural Re-
search Service, as authorized by law.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For the acquisition of land, construction,
repair, improvement, extension, alteration,
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities
as necessary to carry out the agricultural re-
search programs of the Department of Agri-
culture, where not otherwise provided,
$381,200,000 to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $247,700,000 shall be allo-
cated for ARS facilities co-located with uni-
versity partners.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE
RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ACTIVITIES
For payments to agricultural experiment
stations, for cooperative forestry and other
research, for facilities, and for other ex-
penses, $927,649,000, which shall be for the
purposes, and in the amounts, specified in
the table titled ‘‘National Institute of Food
and Agriculture, Research and Education Ac-
tivities’’ in the joint explanatory statement
accompanying this Act: Provided, That funds
for research grants for 1994 institutions, edu-
cation grants for 1890 institutions, capacity
building for non-land-grant colleges of agri-
culture, the agriculture and food research
initiative, veterinary medicine loan repay-
ment, multicultural scholars, graduate fel-
lowship and institution challenge grants,
and grants management systems shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That each institution eligible to receive
funds under the Evans-Allen program re-
ceives no less than $1,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That funds for education grants for
Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving
institutions be made available to individual
eligible institutions or consortia of eligible
institutions with funds awarded equally to
each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii: Pro-
vided further, That funds for education grants
for 1890 institutions shall be made available
to institutions eligible to receive funds
under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222: Provided further,
That not more than 5 percent of the amounts
made available by this or any other Act to
carry out the Agriculture and Food Research
Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) may be re-
tained by the Secretary of Agriculture to
pay administrative costs incurred by the
Secretary in carrying out that authority.
NATIVE AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS ENDOWMENT
FUND
For the Native American Institutions En-
dowment Fund authorized by Public Law
103–382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to re-
main available until expended.
EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
For payments to States, the District of Co-
lumbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Is-
lands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas,
and American Samoa, $505,692,000, which
shall be for the purposes, and in the
amounts, specified in the table titled ‘‘Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture, Ex-
tension Activities’’ in the joint explanatory
statement accompanying this Act: Provided,
That funds for facility improvements at 1890
institutions shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That institutions
eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221
for cooperative extension receive no less
than $1,000,000: Provided further, That funds
for cooperative extension under sections 3(b)
and (c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C.
343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) of Public
Law 93–471 shall be available for retirement
and employees’ compensation costs for ex-
tension agents.
INTEGRATED ACTIVITIES
For the integrated research, education,
and extension grants programs, including
necessary administrative expenses,
$38,000,000, which shall be for the purposes,
and in the amounts, specified in the table ti-
tled ‘‘National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture, Integrated Activities’’ in the joint
explanatory statement accompanying this
Act: Provided, That funds for the Food and
Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided
further, That notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, indirect costs shall not be
charged against any Extension Implementa-
tion Program Area grant awarded under the
Crop Protection/Pest Management Program
(7 U.S.C. 7626).
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
MARKETING AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Marketing and Regu-
latory Programs, $901,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Marketing and Regulatory Pro-
grams mission area for salaries and expenses
are available to fund up to one administra-
tive support staff for the Office.
ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION
SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, including
up to $30,000 for representation allowances
and for expenses pursuant to the Foreign
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085),
$1,011,136,000, of which $470,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant
diseases, animal diseases and for control of
pest animals and birds (‘‘contingency fund’’)
to the extent necessary to meet emergency
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used for
the cotton pests program for cost share pur-
poses or for debt retirement for active eradi-
cation zones; of which $37,857,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for Animal
Health Technical Services; of which $705,000
shall be for activities under the authority of
the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended
(15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $62,840,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be used
to support avian health; of which $4,251,000,
to remain available until expended, shall be
for information technology infrastructure; of
which $186,013,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of
which, $11,826,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for field crop and range-
land ecosystem pests; of which $16,523,000, to
remain available until expended, shall be for
zoonotic disease management; of which
$40,966,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for emergency preparedness
and response; of which $60,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for tree
and wood pests; of which $5,725,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the Na-
tional Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for the scrapie program for
indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the
wildlife damage management program for
aviation safety: Provided, That of amounts
available under this heading for wildlife
services methods development, $1,000,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That of amounts available
under this heading for the screwworm pro-
gram, $4,990,000 shall remain available until
expended; of which $13,600,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used to
carry out the science program at the Na-
tional Bio- and Agro-defense Facility located
in Manhattan, Kansas: Provided further, That
no funds shall be used to formulate or ad-
minister a brucellosis eradication program
for the current fiscal year that does not re-
quire minimum matching by the States of at
least 40 percent: Provided further, That this
appropriation shall be available for the oper-
ation and maintenance of aircraft and the
purchase of not to exceed five, of which two
shall be for replacement only: Provided fur-
ther, That in addition, in emergencies which
threaten any segment of the agricultural
production industry of the United States,
the Secretary may transfer from other ap-
propriations or funds available to the agen-
cies or corporations of the Department such
sums as may be deemed necessary, to be
available only in such emergencies for the
arrest and eradication of contagious or infec-
tious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or
plants, and for expenses in accordance with
sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal Health
Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and
sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection
Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any unex-
pended balances of funds transferred for such
emergency purposes in the preceding fiscal
year shall be merged with such transferred
amounts: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available pursuant
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alter-
ation of leased buildings and improvements,
but unless otherwise provided the cost of al-
tering any one building during the fiscal
year shall not exceed 10 percent of the cur-
rent replacement value of the building.
In fiscal year 2019, the agency is authorized
to collect fees to cover the total costs of pro-
viding technical assistance, goods, or serv-
ices requested by States, other political sub-
divisions, domestic and international organi-
zations, foreign governments, or individuals,
provided that such fees are structured such
that any entity’s liability for such fees is
reasonably based on the technical assistance,
goods, or services provided to the entity by
the agency, and such fees shall be reim-
bursed to this account, to remain available
until expended, without further appropria-
tion, for providing such assistance, goods, or
services.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, preventive
maintenance, environmental support, im-
provement, extension, alteration, and pur-
chase of fixed equipment or facilities, as au-
thorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and acquisition of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1027
January 23, 2019
land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000,
to remain available until expended.
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE
MARKETING SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Marketing Service, $159,095,000, of which
$4,000,000 shall be available for the purposes
of section 12306 of Public Law 113–79; and of
which $1,500,000 shall be available for mar-
keting activities authorized under section
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of
1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)) to provide to State de-
partments of agriculture, State cooperative
extension services, institutions of higher
education, and nonprofit organizations
grants to carry out programs and provide
technical assistance to promote innovation,
process improvement, and marketing relat-
ing to dairy products: Provided, That this ap-
propriation shall be available pursuant to
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and re-
pair of buildings and improvements, but the
cost of altering any one building during the
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the
current replacement value of the building.
Fees may be collected for the cost of stand-
ardization activities, as established by regu-
lation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $61,227,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for administrative expenses: Pro-
vided, That if crop size is understated and/or
other uncontrollable events occur, the agen-
cy may exceed this limitation by up to 10
percent with notification to the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress.
FUNDS FOR STRENGTHENING MARKETS, INCOME,
AND SUPPLY (SECTION 32)
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Funds available under section 32 of the Act
of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), shall be
used only for commodity program expenses
as authorized therein, and other related op-
erating expenses, except for: (1) transfers to
the Department of Commerce as authorized
by the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C.
742a et seq.); (2) transfers otherwise provided
in this Act; and (3) not more than $20,705,000
for formulation and administration of mar-
keting agreements and orders pursuant to
the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 1961 (Pub-
lic Law 87–128).
PAYMENTS TO STATES AND POSSESSIONS
For payments to departments of agri-
culture, bureaus and departments of mar-
kets, and similar agencies for marketing ac-
tivities under section 204(b) of the Agricul-
tural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)),
$1,235,000.
LIMITATION ON INSPECTION AND WEIGHING
SERVICES EXPENSES
Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for inspection and weighing serv-
ices: Provided, That if grain export activities
require additional supervision and oversight,
or other uncontrollable factors occur, this
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 per-
cent with notification to the Committees on
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD
SAFETY
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food Safety, $800,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Food Safety mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION SERVICE
For necessary expenses to carry out serv-
ices authorized by the Federal Meat Inspec-
tion Act, the Poultry Products Inspection
Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act,
including not to exceed $10,000 for represen-
tation allowances and for expenses pursuant
to section 8 of the Act approved August 3,
1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,049,344,000; and in addi-
tion, $1,000,000 may be credited to this ac-
count from fees collected for the cost of lab-
oratory accreditation as authorized by sec-
tion 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conserva-
tion and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Pro-
vided, That funds provided for the Public
Health Data Communication Infrastructure
system shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That no fewer than
148 full-time equivalent positions shall be
employed during fiscal year 2019 for purposes
dedicated solely to inspections and enforce-
ment related to the Humane Methods of
Slaughter Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.): Provided
further, That the Food Safety and Inspection
Service shall continue implementation of
section 11016 of Public Law 110–246 as further
clarified by the amendments made in section
12106 of Public Law 113–79: Provided further,
That this appropriation shall be available
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alter-
ation and repair of buildings and improve-
ments, but the cost of altering any one
building during the fiscal year shall not ex-
ceed 10 percent of the current replacement
value of the building.
TITLE II
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FARM
PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Farm Production and
Conservation, $901,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Farm Production and Conservation mis-
sion area for salaries and expenses are avail-
able to fund up to one administrative sup-
port staff for the Office.
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
BUSINESS CENTER
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Farm Pro-
duction and Conservation Business Center,
$216,350,000: Provided, That $60,228,000 of
amounts appropriated for the current fiscal
year pursuant to section 1241(a) of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 1985
(16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) shall be transferred to and
merged with this account.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Farm Serv-
ice Agency, $1,081,655,000, of which not less
than $20,000,000 shall be for the hiring of new
employees to fill vacancies at Farm Service
Agency county offices and farm loan officers
and shall be available until September 30,
2020: Provided, That not more than 50 percent
of the funding made available under this
heading for information technology may be
obligated until the Secretary submits to the
Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress, and receives written or
electronic notification of receipt from such
Committees of, a plan for expenditure that
(1) identifies for each project/investment
over $25,000 (a) the functional and perform-
ance capabilities to be delivered and the mis-
sion benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated
lifecycle cost for the entirety of the project/
investment, including estimates for develop-
ment as well as maintenance and operations,
and (c) key milestones to be met; (2) dem-
onstrates that each project/investment is, (a)
consistent with the Farm Service Agency In-
formation Technology Roadmap, (b) being
managed in accordance with applicable
lifecycle management policies and guidance,
and (c) subject to the applicable Depart-
ment’s capital planning and investment con-
trol requirements; and (3) has been reviewed
by the Government Accountability Office
and approved by the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided further, That the agency shall submit a
report by the end of the fourth quarter of fis-
cal year 2019 to the Committees on Appro-
priations and the Government Account-
ability Office, that identifies for each
project/investment that is operational (a)
current performance against key indicators
of customer satisfaction, (b) current per-
formance of service level agreements or
other technical metrics, (c) current perform-
ance against a pre-established cost baseline,
(d) a detailed breakdown of current and
planned spending on operational enhance-
ments or upgrades, and (e) an assessment of
whether the investment continues to meet
business needs as intended as well as alter-
natives to the investment: Provided further,
That the Secretary is authorized to use the
services, facilities, and authorities (but not
the funds) of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion to make program payments for all pro-
grams administered by the Agency: Provided
further, That other funds made available to
the Agency for authorized activities may be
advanced to and merged with this account:
Provided further, That funds made available
to county committees shall remain available
until expended: Provided further, That none
of the funds available to the Farm Service
Agency shall be used to close Farm Service
Agency county offices: Provided further, That
none of the funds available to the Farm
Service Agency shall be used to permanently
relocate county based employees that would
result in an office with two or fewer employ-
ees without prior notification and approval
of the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress.
STATE MEDIATION GRANTS
For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the
Agricultural Credit Act of 1987, as amended
(7 U.S.C. 5101–5106), $3,904,000.
GRASSROOTS SOURCE WATER PROTECTION
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out well-
head or groundwater protection activities
under section 1240O of the Food Security Act
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb–2), $6,500,000, to re-
main available until expended.
DAIRY INDEMNITY PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses involved in making
indemnity payments to dairy farmers and
manufacturers of dairy products under a
dairy indemnity program, such sums as may
be necessary, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such program is car-
ried out by the Secretary in the same man-
ner as the dairy indemnity program de-
scribed in the Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001
(Public Law 106–387, 114 Stat. 1549A–12).
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSURANCE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed farm own-
ership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7
U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), Indian tribe land acquisi-
tion loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans (7
U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans
(7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), and Indian highly
fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be
available from funds in the Agricultural
Credit Insurance Fund, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1028 January 23, 2019
$2,750,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership
loans and $1,500,000,000 for farm ownership di-
rect loans; $1,960,000,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans and $1,530,000,000
for direct operating loans; emergency loans,
$37,668,000; Indian tribe land acquisition
loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation
loans, $150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated
land loans, $10,000,000; and for boll weevil
eradication program loans, $30,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall deem the
pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the
purpose of boll weevil eradication program
loans.
For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans
and grants, including the cost of modifying
loans as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows:
farm operating loans, $59,670,000 for direct
operating loans, $21,168,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans, emergency
loans, $1,567,000 and $2,134,000 for Indian high-
ly fractionated land loans to remain avail-
able until expended.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $317,068,000: Provided,
That of this amount, $290,917,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries
and Expenses’’: Provided further, That of this
amount $16,081,000 shall be transferred to and
merged with the appropriation for ‘‘Farm
Production and Conservation Business Cen-
ter, Salaries and Expenses’’.
Funds appropriated by this Act to the Ag-
ricultural Credit Insurance Program Ac-
count for farm ownership, operating and con-
servation direct loans and guaranteed loans
may be transferred among these programs:
Provided, That the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress are notified
at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Risk Man-
agement Agency, $58,361,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses,
as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
CONSERVATION OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16
U.S.C. 590a–f), including preparation of con-
servation plans and establishment of meas-
ures to conserve soil and water (including
farm irrigation and land drainage and such
special measures for soil and water manage-
ment as may be necessary to prevent floods
and the siltation of reservoirs and to control
agricultural related pollutants); operation of
conservation plant materials centers; classi-
fication and mapping of soil; dissemination
of information; acquisition of lands, water,
and interests therein for use in the plant ma-
terials program by donation, exchange, or
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100
pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7
U.S.C. 428a); purchase and erection or alter-
ation or improvement of permanent and tem-
porary buildings; and operation and mainte-
nance of aircraft, $819,492,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That appropriations hereunder shall be
available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for con-
struction and improvement of buildings and
public improvements at plant materials cen-
ters, except that the cost of alterations and
improvements to other buildings and other
public improvements shall not exceed
$250,000: Provided further, That when build-
ings or other structures are erected on non-
Federal land, that the right to use such land
is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, $5,600,000, shall
remain available until expended for the au-
thorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and 1007–
1009 for authorized ongoing watershed
projects with a primary purpose of providing
water to rural communities.
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to carry out pre-
ventive measures, including but not limited
to surveys and investigations, engineering
operations, works of improvement, and
changes in use of land, in accordance with
the Watershed Protection and Flood Preven-
tion Act (16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and 1007–1009)
and in accordance with the provisions of
laws relating to the activities of the Depart-
ment, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That for funds provided
by this Act or any other prior Act, the limi-
tation regarding the size of the watershed or
subwatershed exceeding two hundred and
fifty thousand acres in which such activities
can be undertaken shall only apply for ac-
tivities undertaken for the primary purpose
of flood prevention (including structural and
land treatment measures): Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $50,000,000 shall be allocated to
projects and activities that can commence
promptly following enactment; that address
regional priorities for flood prevention, agri-
cultural water management, inefficient irri-
gation systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or
watershed protection; or that address au-
thorized ongoing projects under the authori-
ties of section 13 of the Flood Control Act of
December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78–534) with a
primary purpose of watershed protection by
preventing floodwater damage and stabi-
lizing stream channels, tributaries, and
banks to reduce erosion and sediment trans-
port.
WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Under the authorities of section 14 of the
Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention
Act, $10,000,000 is provided: Provided, That of
the amounts made available under this head-
ing, $5,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for watershed rehabilitation projects
in states with high-hazard dams and other
watershed structures and that have recently
incurred flooding events which caused fatali-
ties.
CORPORATIONS
The following corporations and agencies
are hereby authorized to make expenditures,
within the limits of funds and borrowing au-
thority available to each such corporation or
agency and in accord with law, and to make
contracts and commitments without regard
to fiscal year limitations as provided by sec-
tion 104 of the Government Corporation Con-
trol Act as may be necessary in carrying out
the programs set forth in the budget for the
current fiscal year for such corporation or
agency, except as hereinafter provided.
FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORPORATION FUND
For payments as authorized by section 516
of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C.
1516), such sums as may be necessary, to re-
main available until expended.
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION FUND
REIMBURSEMENT FOR NET REALIZED LOSSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the current fiscal year, such sums as
may be necessary to reimburse the Com-
modity Credit Corporation for net realized
losses sustained, but not previously reim-
bursed, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of
August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a–11): Provided,
That of the funds available to the Com-
modity Credit Corporation under section 11
of the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the conduct of its
business with the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, up to $5,000,000 may be transferred to and
used by the Foreign Agricultural Service for
information resource management activities
of the Foreign Agricultural Service that are
not related to Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion business.
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
(LIMITATION ON EXPENSES)
For the current fiscal year, the Commodity
Credit Corporation shall not expend more
than $5,000,000 for site investigation and
cleanup expenses, and operations and main-
tenance expenses to comply with the require-
ment of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and section
6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6961).
TITLE III
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the administration and implementation of
Rural Development programs, including ac-
tivities with institutions concerning the de-
velopment and operation of agricultural co-
operatives; and for cooperative agreements;
$236,835,000: Provided, That no less than
$6,000,000 shall be for information technology
investments: Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated under this heading may be used
for advertising and promotional activities
that support Rural Development programs:
Provided further, That in addition to any
other funds appropriated for purposes au-
thorized by section 502(i) of the Housing Act
of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472(i)), any amounts col-
lected under such section, as amended by
this Act, will immediately be credited to
this account and will remain available until
expended for such purposes.
RURAL HOUSING SERVICE
RURAL HOUSING INSURANCE FUND PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by title V of the Housing Act of
1949, to be available from funds in the rural
housing insurance fund, as follows:
$1,000,000,000 shall be for direct loans and
$24,000,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guar-
anteed loans; $28,000,000 for section 504 hous-
ing repair loans; $40,000,000 for section 515
rental housing; $230,000,000 for section 538
guaranteed multi-family housing loans;
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family
housing acquired property; $5,000,000 for sec-
tion 523 self-help housing land development
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site devel-
opment loans.
For the cost of direct and guaranteed
loans, including the cost of modifying loans,
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502
loans, $67,700,000 shall be for direct loans;
section 504 housing repair loans, $3,419,000;
section 523 self-help housing land develop-
ment loans, $431,000; section 524 site develop-
ment loans, $176,000; and repair, rehabilita-
tion, and new construction of section 515
rental housing, $9,484,000: Provided, That to
support the loan program level for section
538 guaranteed loans made available under
this heading the Secretary may charge or ad-
just any fees to cover the projected cost of
such loan guarantees pursuant to the provi-
sions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2
U.S.C. 661 et seq.), and the interest on such
loans may not be subsidized: Provided further,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1029
January 23, 2019
That applicants in communities that have a
current rural area waiver under section 541
of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q)
shall be treated as living in a rural area for
purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans pro-
vided under this heading: Provided further,
That of the amounts available under this
paragraph for section 502 direct loans, no less
than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct
loans for individuals whose homes will be
built pursuant to a program funded with a
mutual and self-help housing grant author-
ized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949
until June 1, 2019: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall implement provisions to pro-
vide incentives to nonprofit organizations
and public housing authorities to facilitate
the acquisition of Rural Housing Service
(RHS) multifamily housing properties by
such nonprofit organizations and public
housing authorities that commit to keep
such properties in the RHS multifamily
housing program for a period of time as de-
termined by the Secretary, with such incen-
tives to include, but not be limited to, the
following: allow such nonprofit entities and
public housing authorities to earn a Return
on Investment on their own resources to in-
clude proceeds from low income housing tax
credit syndication, own contributions,
grants, and developer loans at favorable
rates and terms, invested in a deal; and allow
reimbursement of organizational costs asso-
ciated with owner’s oversight of asset re-
ferred to as ‘‘Asset Management Fee’’ of up
to $7,500 per property.
In addition, for the cost of direct loans,
grants, and contracts, as authorized by sec-
tions 514 and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949
(42 U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $16,853,000, to remain
available until expended, for direct farm
labor housing loans and domestic farm labor
housing grants and contracts: Provided, That
any balances available for the Farm Labor
Program Account shall be transferred to and
merged with this account.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $412,254,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed pursuant to the authority
under section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of
1949 or agreements entered into in lieu of
debt forgiveness or payments for eligible
households as authorized by section
502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949,
$1,331,400,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2020; and in ad-
dition such sums as may be necessary, as au-
thorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liq-
uidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992
to carry out the rental assistance program
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided,
That rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed during the current fiscal
year shall be funded for a one-year period:
Provided further, That any unexpended bal-
ances remaining at the end of such one-year
agreements may be transferred and used for
purposes of any debt reduction; mainte-
nance, repair, or rehabilitation of any exist-
ing projects; preservation; and rental assist-
ance activities authorized under title V of
the Act: Provided further, That rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2019 for a farm labor
multi-family housing project financed under
section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be re-
captured for use in another project until
such assistance has remained unused for a
period of 12 consecutive months, if such
project has a waiting list of tenants seeking
such assistance or the project has rental as-
sistance eligible tenants who are not receiv-
ing such assistance: Provided further, That
such recaptured rental assistance shall, to
the extent practicable, be applied to another
farm labor multi-family housing project fi-
nanced under section 514 or 516 of the Act:
Provided further, That except as provided in
the third proviso under this heading and not-
withstanding any other provision of the Act,
the Secretary may recapture rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2019 for a project that the
Secretary determines no longer needs rental
assistance and use such recaptured funds for
current needs.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVITALIZATION
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the rural housing voucher program as
authorized under section 542 of the Housing
Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection
(b) of such section, and for additional costs
to conduct a demonstration program for the
preservation and revitalization of multi-fam-
ily rental housing properties described in
this paragraph, $51,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of the
funds made available under this heading,
$27,000,000, shall be available for rural hous-
ing vouchers to any low-income household
(including those not receiving rental assist-
ance) residing in a property financed with a
section 515 loan which has been prepaid after
September 30, 2005: Provided further, That the
amount of such voucher shall be the dif-
ference between comparable market rent for
the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent
for such unit: Provided further, That funds
made available for such vouchers shall be
subject to the availability of annual appro-
priations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, administer such vouchers with cur-
rent regulations and administrative guid-
ance applicable to section 8 housing vouchers
administered by the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development:
Provided further, That if the Secretary deter-
mines that the amount made available for
vouchers in this or any other Act is not
needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use
such funds for the demonstration program
for the preservation and revitalization of
multi-family rental housing properties de-
scribed in this paragraph: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under this
heading, $24,500,000 shall be available for a
demonstration program for the preservation
and revitalization of the sections 514, 515,
and 516 multi-family rental housing prop-
erties to restructure existing USDA multi-
family housing loans, as the Secretary deems
appropriate, expressly for the purposes of en-
suring the project has sufficient resources to
preserve the project for the purpose of pro-
viding safe and affordable housing for low-in-
come residents and farm laborers including
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring
loan payments, subordinating, reducing or
reamortizing loan debt; and other financial
assistance including advances, payments and
incentives (including the ability of owners to
obtain reasonable returns on investment) re-
quired by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall as part of the pres-
ervation and revitalization agreement obtain
a restrictive use agreement consistent with
the terms of the restructuring: Provided fur-
ther, That if the Secretary determines that
additional funds for vouchers described in
this paragraph are needed, funds for the pres-
ervation and revitalization demonstration
program may be used for such vouchers: Pro-
vided further, That if Congress enacts legisla-
tion to permanently authorize a multi-fam-
ily rental housing loan restructuring pro-
gram similar to the demonstration program
described herein, the Secretary may use
funds made available for the demonstration
program under this heading to carry out
such legislation with the prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress: Provided further, That in
addition to any other available funds, the
Secretary may expend not more than
$1,000,000 total, from the program funds made
available under this heading, for administra-
tive expenses for activities funded under this
heading.
MUTUAL AND SELF-HELP HOUSING GRANTS
For grants and contracts pursuant to sec-
tion 523(b)(1)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1490c), $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
RURAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For grants for very low-income housing re-
pair and rural housing preservation made by
the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by
42 U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $45,000,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by section 306 and described in sec-
tion 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, $2,800,000,000 for di-
rect loans and $148,287,000 for guaranteed
loans.
For the cost of guaranteed loans, including
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974, $4,285,000, to remain available until
expended.
For the cost of grants for rural community
facilities programs as authorized by section
306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act, $45,778,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $6,000,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be available for a Rural Community
Development Initiative: Provided further,
That such funds shall be used solely to de-
velop the capacity and ability of private,
nonprofit community-based housing and
community development organizations, low-
income rural communities, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes to un-
dertake projects to improve housing, com-
munity facilities, community and economic
development projects in rural areas: Provided
further, That such funds shall be made avail-
able to qualified private, nonprofit and pub-
lic intermediary organizations proposing to
carry out a program of financial and tech-
nical assistance: Provided further, That such
intermediary organizations shall provide
matching funds from other sources, includ-
ing Federal funds for related activities, in an
amount not less than funds provided: Pro-
vided further, That $5,778,000 of the amount
appropriated under this heading shall be to
provide grants for facilities in rural commu-
nities with extreme unemployment and se-
vere economic depression (Public Law 106–
387), with up to 5 percent for administration
and capacity building in the State rural de-
velopment offices: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be available for commu-
nity facilities grants to tribal colleges, as
authorized by section 306(a)(19) of such Act:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
RURAL BUSINESS—COOPERATIVE SERVICE
RURAL BUSINESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the cost of loan guarantees and grants,
for the rural business development programs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1030 January 23, 2019
authorized by section 310B and described in
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $65,040,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of the amount
appropriated under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $500,000 shall be made available for one
grant to a qualified national organization to
provide technical assistance for rural trans-
portation in order to promote economic de-
velopment and $8,000,000 shall be for grants
to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C.
2009aa et seq.), the Northern Border Regional
Commission (40 U.S.C. 15101 et seq.), and the
Appalachian Regional Commission (40 U.S.C.
14101 et seq.) for any Rural Community Ad-
vancement Program purpose as described in
section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, of which not more
than 5 percent may be used for administra-
tive expenses: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for business grants to
benefit Federally Recognized Native Amer-
ican Tribes, including $250,000 for a grant to
a qualified national organization to provide
technical assistance for rural transportation
in order to promote economic development:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to funds
made available under this heading.
INTERMEDIARY RELENDING PROGRAM FUND
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b),
$18,889,000.
For the cost of direct loans, $4,157,000, as
authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of
which $557,000 shall be available through
June 30, 2019, for Federally Recognized Na-
tive American Tribes; and of which $1,072,000
shall be available through June 30, 2019, for
Mississippi Delta Region counties (as deter-
mined in accordance with Public Law 100–
460): Provided, That such costs, including the
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as de-
fined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan programs, $4,468,000
shall be transferred to and merged with the
appropriation for ‘‘Rural Development, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’.
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOANS
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized under section 313 of the Rural
Electrification Act, for the purpose of pro-
moting rural economic development and job
creation projects, $50,000,000.
The cost of grants authorized under sec-
tion 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for
the purpose of promoting rural economic de-
velopment and job creation projects shall
not exceed $10,000,000.
RURAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
For rural cooperative development grants
authorized under section 310B(e) of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
(7 U.S.C. 1932), $29,100,000, of which $2,800,000
shall be for cooperative agreements for the
appropriate technology transfer for rural
areas program: Provided, That not to exceed
$3,000,000 shall be for grants for cooperative
development centers, individual coopera-
tives, or groups of cooperatives that serve
socially disadvantaged groups and a major-
ity of the boards of directors or governing
boards of which are comprised of individuals
who are members of socially disadvantaged
groups; and of which $17,500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for value-
added agricultural product market develop-
ment grants, as authorized by section 231 of
the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000
(7 U.S.C. 1632a), of which $2,500,000 may be
used for Agriculture Innovation Centers au-
thorized pursuant to section 6402 of Public
Law 107–171.
RURAL ENERGY FOR AMERICA PROGRAM
For the cost of a program of loan guaran-
tees, under the same terms and conditions as
authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107), $334,500: Provided, That the cost
of loan guarantees, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974.
RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE
RURAL WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans as authorized by sec-
tion 306 and described in section 381E(d)(2) of
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $1,400,000,000. For loan guarantees
and grants for rural water, waste water,
waste disposal, and solid waste management
programs authorized by sections 306, 306A,
306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and described in
sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2)
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $548,690,000, to remain available
until expended, of which not to exceed
$1,000,000 shall be available for the rural util-
ities program described in section
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to
exceed $1,500,000 shall be available for the
rural utilities program described in section
306E of such Act: Provided, That not to ex-
ceed $15,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be for grants au-
thorized by section 306A(i)(2) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act in
addition to funding authorized by section
306A(i)(1) of such Act and such grants may
not exceed $1,000,000 notwithstanding section
306A(f)(1) of such Act: Provided further, That
$68,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for loans and grants in-
cluding water and waste disposal systems
grants authorized by section 306C(a)(2)(B)
and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes author-
ized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act: Provided fur-
ther, That funding provided for section 306D
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act may be provided to a consortium
formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law
105–83: Provided further, That not more than 2
percent of the funding provided for section
306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act may be used by the State of
Alaska for training and technical assistance
programs and not more than 2 percent of the
funding provided for section 306D of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
may be used by a consortium formed pursu-
ant to section 325 of Public Law 105–83 for
training and technical assistance programs:
Provided further, That not to exceed
$30,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for technical assistance
grants for rural water and waste systems
pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act, un-
less the Secretary makes a determination of
extreme need, of which $8,000,000 shall be
made available for a grant to a qualified
nonprofit multi-State regional technical as-
sistance organization, with experience in
working with small communities on water
and waste water problems, the principal pur-
pose of such grant shall be to assist rural
communities with populations of 3,300 or
less, in improving the planning, financing,
development, operation, and management of
water and waste water systems, and of which
not less than $800,000 shall be for a qualified
national Native American organization to
provide technical assistance for rural water
systems for tribal communities: Provided fur-
ther, That not to exceed $19,000,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be for contracting with qualified na-
tional organizations for a circuit rider pro-
gram to provide technical assistance for
rural water systems: Provided further, That
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid
waste management grants: Provided further,
That $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be transferred to,
and merged with, the Rural Utilities Service,
High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide
grants authorized under section 19 of the
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C.
918a): Provided further, That any prior year
balances for high-energy cost grants author-
ized by section 19 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the Rural Utilities
Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
The principal amount of direct and guaran-
teed loans as authorized by sections 305, 306,
and 317 of the Rural Electrification Act of
1936 (7 U.S.C. 935, 936, and 940g) shall be made
as follows: loans made pursuant to sections
305, 306, and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of
that Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guar-
anteed underwriting loans pursuant to sec-
tion 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural tele-
communications loans, cost of money rural
telecommunications loans, and for loans
made pursuant to section 306 of that Act,
rural telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:
Provided, That up to $2,000,000,000 shall be
used for the construction, acquisition, design
and engineering or improvement of fossil-
fueled electric generating plants (whether
new or existing) that utilize carbon sub-
surface utilization and storage systems.
For the cost of direct loans as authorized
by section 305 of the Rural Electrification
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost
of modifying loans, as defined in section 502
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, cost
of money rural telecommunications loans,
$1,725,000.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $33,270,000, which shall
be transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
DISTANCE LEARNING, TELEMEDICINE, AND
BROADBAND PROGRAM
For the principal amount of broadband
telecommunication loans, $29,851,000.
For grants for telemedicine and distance
learning services in rural areas, as author-
ized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $34,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That $3,000,000 shall be made available for
grants authorized by 379G of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act: Pro-
vided further, That funding provided under
this heading for grants under 379G of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act may only be provided to entities that
meet all of the eligibility criteria for a con-
sortium as established by this section.
For the cost of broadband loans, as author-
ized by section 601 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act, $5,830,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the cost of direct
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1031
January 23, 2019
loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for a grant program to fi-
nance broadband transmission in rural areas
eligible for Distance Learning and Telemedi-
cine Program benefits authorized by 7 U.S.C.
950aaa.
TITLE IV
DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD,
NUTRITION, AND CONSUMER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and
Consumer Services, $800,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Food, Nutrition and Consumer
Services mission area for salaries and ex-
penses are available to fund up to one admin-
istrative support staff for the Office.
FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE
CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21,
and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.
1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21;
$23,140,781,000 to remain available through
September 30, 2020, of which such sums as are
made available under section 14222(b)(1) of
the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–246), as amended by this
Act, shall be merged with and available for
the same time period and purposes as pro-
vided herein: Provided, That of the total
amount available, $17,004,000 shall be avail-
able to carry out section 19 of the Child Nu-
trition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):
Provided further, That of the total amount
available, $30,000,000 shall be available to
provide competitive grants to State agencies
for subgrants to local educational agencies
and schools to purchase the equipment, with
a value of greater than $1,000, needed to
serve healthier meals, improve food safety,
and to help support the establishment, main-
tenance, or expansion of the school breakfast
program: Provided further, That of the total
amount available, $28,000,000 shall remain
available until expended to carry out section
749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act
of 2010 (Public Law 111–80): Provided further,
That section 26(d) of the Richard B. Russell
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C.
1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by
striking ‘‘2010 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘2010 through 2019’’: Provided further, That
section 9(h)(3) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3))
is amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘For fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘For fis-
cal year 2019’’: Provided further, That section
9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is
amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘For fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘For fis-
cal year 2019’’.
SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM
FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN (WIC)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
special supplemental nutrition program as
authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,075,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2020: Provided, That notwithstanding section
17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), not less than $60,000,000
shall be used for breastfeeding peer coun-
selors and other related activities, and
$19,000,000 shall be used for infrastructure, of
which $5,000,000 shall be for telehealth com-
petitive grants to supplement the nutrition
education and breastfeeding support offered
in the WIC clinic, and to decrease barriers to
access to WIC services, particularly in rural
communities, and other populations facing
barriers to accessing support: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds provided in this
account shall be available for the purchase of
infant formula except in accordance with the
cost containment and competitive bidding
requirements specified in section 17 of such
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds
provided shall be available for activities that
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal
Government departments or agencies unless
authorized by section 17 of such Act: Pro-
vided further, That upon termination of a fed-
erally mandated vendor moratorium and
subject to terms and conditions established
by the Secretary, the Secretary may waive
the requirement at 7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the
request of a State agency.
SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.), $73,476,921,000, of which $3,000,000,000,
to remain available through December 31,
2020, shall be placed in reserve for use only in
such amounts and at such times as may be-
come necessary to carry out program oper-
ations: Provided, That funds provided herein
shall be expended in accordance with section
16 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds made avail-
able under this heading, $998,000 may be used
to provide nutrition education services to
State agencies and Federally Recognized
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution
Program on Indian Reservations: Provided
further, That this appropriation shall be sub-
ject to any work registration or workfare re-
quirements as may be required by law: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
Employment and Training under this head-
ing shall remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That funds
made available under this heading for sec-
tion 28(d)(1), section 4(b), and section 27(a) of
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2020:
Provided further, That none of the funds made
available under this heading may be obli-
gated or expended in contravention of sec-
tion 213A of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183A): Provided further,
That funds made available under this head-
ing may be used to enter into contracts and
employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations,
or to conduct activities related to program
integrity provided that such activities are
authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008.
COMMODITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out dis-
aster assistance and the Commodity Supple-
mental Food Program as authorized by sec-
tion 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note);
the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983;
special assistance for the nuclear affected is-
lands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of the
Compact of Free Association Amendments
Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–188); and the
Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program, as au-
thorized by section 17(m) of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966, $322,139,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2020: Provided,
That none of these funds shall be available
to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion for commodities donated to the pro-
gram: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, effective with
funds made available in fiscal year 2019 to
support the Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutri-
tion Program, as authorized by section 4402
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment
Act of 2002, such funds shall remain available
through September 30, 2020: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under sec-
tion 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use
up to 15 percent for costs associated with the
distribution of commodities: Provided fur-
ther, That $30,000,000 of prior year unobli-
gated balances of the Commodity Supple-
mental Food Program shall be transferred to
The Emergency Food Assistance Program to
be used for administrative expenses.
NUTRITION PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Food and Nutrition Service for carrying
out any domestic nutrition assistance pro-
gram, $164,688,000, of which $12,297,000 shall
remain available through September 30, 2021,
for the development and dissemination of the
Dietary Guidelines for Americans: Provided,
That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404
of Public Law 107–171, as amended by section
4401 of Public Law 110–246.
TITLE V
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR TRADE
AND FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL AFFAIRS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agri-
cultural Affairs, $875,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to any
agency in the Trade and Foreign Agricul-
tural Affairs mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CODEX ALIMENTARIUS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Codex Alimentarius, $3,976,000, including not
to exceed $40,000 for official reception and
representation expenses.
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Foreign Ag-
ricultural Service, including not to exceed
$250,000 for representation allowances and for
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act ap-
proved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766),
$213,890,000, of which no more than 6 percent
shall remain available until September 30,
2020, for overseas operations to include the
payment of locally employed staff: Provided,
That the Service may utilize advances of
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for ex-
penditures made on behalf of Federal agen-
cies, public and private organizations and in-
stitutions under agreements executed pursu-
ant to the agricultural food production as-
sistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the for-
eign assistance programs of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment: Provided further, That funds made
available for middle-income country training
programs, funds made available for the
Borlaug International Agricultural Science
and Technology Fellowship program, and up
to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural
Service appropriation solely for the purpose
of offsetting fluctuations in international
currency exchange rates, subject to docu-
mentation by the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, shall remain available until expended.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE I DIRECT CREDIT AND
FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the credit program of title I, Food for Peace
Act (Public Law 83–480) and the Food for
Progress Act of 1985, $142,000, shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriation
for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Ex-
penses’’.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE II GRANTS
For expenses during the current fiscal
year, not otherwise recoverable, and unre-
covered prior years’ costs, including interest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1032 January 23, 2019
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Pub-
lic Law 83–480), for commodities supplied in
connection with dispositions abroad under
title II of said Act, $1,500,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
MCGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR
EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 3107 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 1736o–1), $210,255,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $1,000,000 is for
the use of recently developed potable water
technologies in school feeding projects: Pro-
vided, That the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion is authorized to provide the services, fa-
cilities, and authorities for the purpose of
implementing such section, subject to reim-
bursement from amounts provided herein:
Provided further, That of the amount made
available under this heading, $15,000,000,
shall remain available until expended for
necessary expenses to carry out the provi-
sions of section 3207 of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 1726c).
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION EXPORT
(LOANS) CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the Commodity Credit Corporation’s Export
Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103,
$8,845,000; to cover common overhead ex-
penses as permitted by section 11 of the Com-
modity Credit Corporation Charter Act and
in conformity with the Federal Credit Re-
form Act of 1990, of which $6,382,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Foreign Agricultural Service,
Salaries and Expenses’’, and of which
$2,463,000 shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriation for ‘‘Farm Service
Agency, Salaries and Expenses’’.
TITLE VI
RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Food and
Drug Administration, including hire and pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles; for pay-
ment of space rental and related costs pursu-
ant to Public Law 92–313 for programs and
activities of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion which are included in this Act; for rent-
al of special purpose space in the District of
Columbia or elsewhere; in addition to
amounts appropriated to the FDA Innova-
tion Account, for carrying out the activities
described in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act (Public Law 114–255); for mis-
cellaneous and emergency expenses of en-
forcement activities, authorized and ap-
proved by the Secretary and to be accounted
for solely on the Secretary’s certificate, not
to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding sec-
tion 521 of Public Law 107–188; $5,584,965,000:
Provided, That of the amount provided under
this heading, $1,010,323,000 shall be derived
from prescription drug user fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to
this account and remain available until ex-
pended; $204,730,000 shall be derived from
medical device user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this ac-
count and remain available until expended;
$501,721,000 shall be derived from human ge-
neric drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–42, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$38,847,000 shall be derived from biosimilar
biological product user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j–52, and shall be credited to this
account and remain available until ex-
pended; $30,331,000 shall be derived from ani-
mal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–12, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$18,335,000 shall be derived from generic new
animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–21, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$712,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco
product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
387s, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That in addition to and not-
withstanding any other provision under this
heading, amounts collected for prescription
drug user fees, medical device user fees,
human generic drug user fees, biosimilar bio-
logical product user fees, animal drug user
fees, and generic new animal drug user fees
that exceed the respective fiscal year 2019
limitations are appropriated and shall be
credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
fees derived from prescription drug, medical
device, human generic drug, biosimilar bio-
logical product, animal drug, and generic
new animal drug assessments for fiscal year
2019, including any such fees collected prior
to fiscal year 2019 but credited for fiscal year
2019, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2019
limitations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may accept payment during fiscal
year 2019 of user fees specified under this
heading and authorized for fiscal year 2020,
prior to the due date for such fees, and that
amounts of such fees assessed for fiscal year
2020 for which the Secretary accepts pay-
ment in fiscal year 2019 shall not be included
in amounts under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That none of these funds shall be used
to develop, establish, or operate any program
of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount ap-
propriated: (1) $1,059,980,000 shall be for the
Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutri-
tion and related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs, of which no less than
$15,000,000 shall be used for inspections of for-
eign seafood manufacturers and field exami-
nations of imported seafood; (2) $1,879,927,000
shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research and related field activities in
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3)
$402,144,000 shall be for the Center for Bio-
logics Evaluation and Research and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (4) $223,611,000 shall be for the
Center for Veterinary Medicine and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (5) $556,179,000 shall be for the
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
and for related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $66,712,000 shall be
for the National Center for Toxicological Re-
search; (7) $666,832,000 shall be for the Center
for Tobacco Products and for related field
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs;
(8) $173,847,000 shall be for Rent and Related
activities, of which $50,587,000 is for White
Oak Consolidation, other than the amounts
paid to the General Services Administration
for rent; (9) $237,849,000 shall be for payments
to the General Services Administration for
rent; and (10) $317,884,000 shall be for other
activities, including the Office of the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs, the Office of
Foods and Veterinary Medicine, the Office of
Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of
Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of
Operations, the Office of the Chief Scientist,
and central services for these offices: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $25,000 of
this amount shall be for official reception
and representation expenses, not otherwise
provided for, as determined by the Commis-
sioner: Provided further, That any transfer of
funds pursuant to section 770(n) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made
available under this heading for other activi-
ties: Provided further, That of the amounts
that are made available under this heading
for ‘‘other activities’’, and that are not de-
rived from user fees, $1,500,000 shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriation
for ‘‘Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices—Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of the programs and operations of the
Food and Drug Administration and shall be
in addition to funds otherwise made avail-
able for oversight of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration: Provided further, That of the
total amount made available under this
heading, $3,000,000 shall be used by the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs, in coordination
with the Secretary of Agriculture, for con-
sumer outreach and education regarding ag-
ricultural biotechnology and biotechnology-
derived food products and animal feed, in-
cluding through publication and distribution
of science-based educational information on
the environmental, nutritional, food safety,
economic, and humanitarian impacts of such
biotechnology, food products, and feed: Pro-
vided further, That funds may be transferred
from one specified activity to another with
the prior approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress.
In addition, mammography user fees au-
thorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, export certifi-
cation user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381,
priority review user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed recall
fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary
qualified importer program fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379j–31, outsourcing facility fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j–62, prescription
drug wholesale distributor licensing and in-
spection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider li-
censing and inspection fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360eee–3(c)(1), third-party auditor fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), and med-
ical countermeasure priority review voucher
user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4a,
and, contingent upon the enactment of the
Over-the-Counter Monograph User Fee Act of
2018, fees relating to over-the-counter mono-
graph drugs authorized by part 10 of sub-
chapter C of Chapter VII of the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act shall be cred-
ited to this account, to remain available
until expended.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, improve-
ment, extension, alteration, demolition, and
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of
or used by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, where not otherwise provided,
$11,788,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FDA INNOVATION ACCOUNT, CURES ACT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
purposes described under section 1002(b)(4) of
the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to
amounts available for such purposes under
the heading ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’,
$70,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That amounts appropriated
in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant
to section 1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures
Act, are to be derived from amounts trans-
ferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act,
and may be transferred by the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs to the appropriation for
‘‘Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration Salaries and
Expenses’’ solely for the purposes provided in
such Act: Provided further, That upon a de-
termination by the Commissioner that funds
transferred pursuant to the previous proviso
are not necessary for the purposes provided,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1033
January 23, 2019
such amounts may be transferred back to
the account: Provided further, That such
transfer authority is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided by law.
INDEPENDENT AGENCY
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $74,600,000 (from assessments
collected from farm credit institutions, in-
cluding the Federal Agricultural Mortgage
Corporation) shall be obligated during the
current fiscal year for administrative ex-
penses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:
Provided, That this limitation shall not
apply to expenses associated with receiver-
ships: Provided further, That the agency may
exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent
with notification to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS AND TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS)
SEC. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed
by law, appropriations and authorizations
made for the Department of Agriculture for
the current fiscal year under this Act shall
be available for the purchase, in addition to
those specifically provided for, of not to ex-
ceed 71 passenger motor vehicles of which 68
shall be for replacement only, and for the
hire of such vehicles: Provided, That notwith-
standing this section, the only purchase of
new passenger vehicles shall be for those de-
termined by the Secretary to be necessary
for transportation safety, to reduce oper-
ational costs, and for the protection of life,
property, and public safety.
SEC. 702. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture
may transfer unobligated balances of discre-
tionary funds appropriated by this Act or
any other available unobligated discre-
tionary balances that are remaining avail-
able of the Department of Agriculture to the
Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of
plant and capital equipment necessary for
the delivery of financial, administrative, and
information technology services of primary
benefit to the agencies of the Department of
Agriculture, such transferred funds to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That none of the funds made available by
this Act or any other Act shall be trans-
ferred to the Working Capital Fund without
the prior approval of the agency adminis-
trator: Provided further, That none of the
funds transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to this section shall be avail-
able for obligation without written notifica-
tion to and the prior approval of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of both Houses of
Congress: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to make any changes to the De-
partment’s National Finance Center without
written notification to and prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress as required by section 717
of this Act: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, imple-
ment, or make any changes to remove or re-
locate any systems, missions, or functions of
the offices of the Chief Financial Officer or
any personnel from the National Finance
Center prior to written notification to and
prior approval of the Committee on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress and in
accordance with the requirements of section
717 of this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary of Agriculture and the offices of
the Chief Financial Officer shall actively
market to existing and new Departments and
other government agencies National Finance
Center shared services including, but not
limited to, payroll, financial management,
and human capital shared services and allow
the National Finance Center to perform
technology upgrades: Provided further, That
of annual income amounts in the Working
Capital Fund of the Department of Agri-
culture attributable to the amounts in ex-
cess of the true costs of the shared services
provided by the National Finance Center and
budgeted for the National Finance Center,
the Secretary shall reserve not more than 4
percent for the replacement or acquisition of
capital equipment, including equipment for
the improvement, delivery, and implementa-
tion of financial, administrative, and infor-
mation technology services, and other sys-
tems of the National Finance Center or to
pay any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of
the National Finance Center: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the amounts reserved
shall be available for obligation unless the
Secretary submits written notification of
the obligation to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided further, That the limitations on the ob-
ligation of funds pending notification to
Congressional Committees shall not apply to
any obligation that, as determined by the
Secretary, is necessary to respond to a de-
clared state of emergency that significantly
impacts the operations of the National Fi-
nance Center; or to evacuate employees of
the National Finance Center to a safe haven
to continue operations of the National Fi-
nance Center.
SEC. 703. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 704. No funds appropriated by this Act
may be used to pay negotiated indirect cost
rates on cooperative agreements or similar
arrangements between the United States De-
partment of Agriculture and nonprofit insti-
tutions in excess of 10 percent of the total di-
rect cost of the agreement when the purpose
of such cooperative arrangements is to carry
out programs of mutual interest between the
two parties. This does not preclude appro-
priate payment of indirect costs on grants
and contracts with such institutions when
such indirect costs are computed on a simi-
lar basis for all agencies for which appropria-
tions are provided in this Act.
SEC. 705. Appropriations to the Department
of Agriculture for the cost of direct and
guaranteed loans made available in the cur-
rent fiscal year shall remain available until
expended to disburse obligations made in the
current fiscal year for the following ac-
counts: the Rural Development Loan Fund
program account, the Rural Electrification
and Telecommunication Loans program ac-
count, and the Rural Housing Insurance
Fund program account.
SEC. 706. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Agriculture by this Act
may be used to acquire new information
technology systems or significant upgrades,
as determined by the Office of the Chief In-
formation Officer, without the approval of
the Chief Information Officer and the con-
currence of the Executive Information Tech-
nology Investment Review Board: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, none of the funds appropriated or other-
wise made available by this Act may be
transferred to the Office of the Chief Infor-
mation Officer without written notification
to and the prior approval of the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing section 11319 of title 40, United
States Code, none of the funds available to
the Department of Agriculture for informa-
tion technology shall be obligated for
projects, contracts, or other agreements over
$25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by
the Chief Information Officer: Provided fur-
ther, That the Chief Information Officer may
authorize an agency to obligate funds with-
out written approval from the Chief Informa-
tion Officer for projects, contracts, or other
agreements up to $250,000 based upon the per-
formance of an agency measured against the
performance plan requirements described in
the explanatory statement accompanying
Public Law 113–235.
SEC. 707. Funds made available under sec-
tion 524(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act
(7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year
shall remain available until expended to dis-
burse obligations made in the current fiscal
year.
SEC. 708. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any former RUS borrower that
has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936, or any not-for-profit utility
that is eligible to receive an insured or di-
rect loan under such Act, shall be eligible for
assistance under section 313(b)(2)(B) of such
Act in the same manner as a borrower under
such Act.
SEC. 709. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not more than $20,000,000 in
unobligated balances from appropriations
made available for salaries and expenses in
this Act for the Farm Service Agency shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for information technology expenses: Pro-
vided, That except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, unobligated balances from
appropriations made available for salaries
and expenses in this Act for the Rural Devel-
opment mission area shall remain available
through September 30, 2020, for information
technology expenses.
SEC. 710. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used for first-class travel by the employees
of agencies funded by this Act in contraven-
tion of sections 301–10.122 through 301–10.124
of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 711. In the case of each program estab-
lished or amended by the Agricultural Act of
2014 (Public Law 113–79) or by a successor to
that Act, other than by title I or subtitle A
of title III of such Act, or programs for
which indefinite amounts were provided in
that Act, that is authorized or required to be
carried out using funds of the Commodity
Credit Corporation—
(1) such funds shall be available for salaries
and related administrative expenses, includ-
ing technical assistance, associated with the
implementation of the program, without re-
gard to the limitation on the total amount
of allotments and fund transfers contained in
section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
(2) the use of such funds for such purpose
shall not be considered to be a fund transfer
or allotment for purposes of applying the
limitation on the total amount of allotments
and fund transfers contained in such section.
SEC. 712. Of the funds made available by
this Act, not more than $2,900,000 shall be
used to cover necessary expenses of activi-
ties related to all advisory committees, pan-
els, commissions, and task forces of the De-
partment of Agriculture, except for panels
used to comply with negotiated rule makings
and panels used to evaluate competitively
awarded grants.
SEC. 713. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available to pay indirect costs charged
against any agricultural research, education,
or extension grant awards issued by the Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1034 January 23, 2019
exceed 30 percent of total Federal funds pro-
vided under each award: Provided, That not-
withstanding section 1462 of the National Ag-
ricultural Research, Extension, and Teach-
ing Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds
provided by this Act for grants awarded com-
petitively by the National Institute of Food
and Agriculture shall be available to pay full
allowable indirect costs for each grant
awarded under section 9 of the Small Busi-
ness Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
SEC. 714. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 715. Notwithstanding subsection (b) of
section 14222 of Public Law 110–246 (7 U.S.C.
612c–6; in this section referred to as ‘‘section
14222’’), none of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act shall be used to pay the salaries
and expenses of personnel to carry out a pro-
gram under section 32 of the Act of August
24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred
to as ‘‘section 32’’) in excess of $1,299,600,000
(exclusive of carryover appropriations from
prior fiscal years), as follows: Child Nutri-
tion Programs Entitlement Commodities—
$485,000,000; State Option Contracts—
$5,000,000; Removal of Defective Commod-
ities—$2,500,000; Administration of Section 32
Commodity Purchases—$35,853,000: Provided,
That of the total funds made available in the
matter preceding this proviso that remain
unobligated on October 1, 2019, such unobli-
gated balances shall carryover into fiscal
year 2020 and shall remain available until ex-
pended for any of the purposes of section 32,
except that any such carryover funds used in
accordance with clause (3) of section 32 may
not exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obli-
gated until the Secretary of Agriculture pro-
vides written notification of the expendi-
tures to the Committees on Appropriations
of both Houses of Congress at least two
weeks in advance: Provided further, That,
with the exception of any available carry-
over funds authorized in any prior appropria-
tions Act to be used for the purposes of
clause (3) of section 32, none of the funds ap-
propriated or otherwise made available by
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries or expenses of any employee of the
Department of Agriculture to carry out
clause (3) of section 32.
SEC. 716. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries and expenses of personnel who pre-
pare or submit appropriations language as
part of the President’s budget submission to
the Congress for programs under the juris-
diction of the Appropriations Subcommit-
tees on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies that assumes revenues or reflects a
reduction from the previous year due to user
fees proposals that have not been enacted
into law prior to the submission of the budg-
et unless such budget submission identifies
which additional spending reductions should
occur in the event the user fees proposals are
not enacted prior to the date of the con-
vening of a committee of conference for the
fiscal year 2020 appropriations Act.
SEC. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by
this Act, or provided by previous appropria-
tions Acts to the agencies funded by this Act
that remain available for obligation or ex-
penditure in the current fiscal year, or pro-
vided from any accounts in the Treasury de-
rived by the collection of fees available to
the agencies funded by this Act, shall be
available for obligation or expenditure
through a reprogramming, transfer of funds,
or reimbursements as authorized by the
Economy Act, or in the case of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, through use of the au-
thority provided by section 702(b) of the De-
partment of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944
(7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89–
106 (7 U.S.C. 2263), that—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any project or activity for which
funds have been denied or restricted;
(4) relocates an office or employees;
(5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activi-
ties; or
(6) contracts out or privatizes any func-
tions or activities presently performed by
Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture, or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (as
the case may be) notifies in writing and re-
ceives approval from the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress at
least 30 days in advance of the reprogram-
ming of such funds or the use of such author-
ity.
(b) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for ob-
ligation or expenditure for activities, pro-
grams, or projects through a reprogramming
or use of the authorities referred to in sub-
section (a) involving funds in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less,
that—
(1) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities;
(2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any
existing program, project, or activity, or
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as ap-
proved by Congress; or
(3) results from any general savings from a
reduction in personnel which would result in
a change in existing programs, activities, or
projects as approved by Congress; unless the
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services (as the case may
be) notifies in writing and receives approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in
advance of the reprogramming or transfer of
such funds or the use of such authority.
(c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall notify in writing and receive approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress before imple-
menting any program or activity not carried
out during the previous fiscal year unless the
program or activity is funded by this Act or
specifically funded by any other Act.
(d) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for—
(1) modifying major capital investments
funding levels, including information tech-
nology systems, that involves increasing or
decreasing funds in the current fiscal year
for the individual investment in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent of the total cost, which-
ever is less;
(2) realigning or reorganizing new, current,
or vacant positions or agency activities or
functions to establish a center, office,
branch, or similar entity with five or more
personnel; or
(3) carrying out activities or functions that
were not described in the budget request; un-
less the agencies funded by this Act notify,
in writing, the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress at least 30
days in advance of using the funds for these
purposes.
(e) As described in this section, no funds
may be used for any activities unless the
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services receives from
the Committee on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress written or electronic
mail confirmation of receipt of the notifica-
tion as required in this section.
SEC. 718. Notwithstanding section
310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)),
the Secretary may assess a one-time fee for
any guaranteed business and industry loan
in an amount that does not exceed 3 percent
of the guaranteed principal portion of the
loan.
SEC. 719. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, or the Farm Credit Administration
shall be used to transmit or otherwise make
available reports, questions, or responses to
questions that are a result of information re-
quested for the appropriations hearing proc-
ess to any non-Department of Agriculture,
non-Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, or non-Farm Credit Administration em-
ployee.
SEC. 720. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this Act, may be used by an executive branch
agency to produce any prepackaged news
story intended for broadcast or distribution
in the United States unless the story in-
cludes a clear notification within the text or
audio of the prepackaged news story that the
prepackaged news story was prepared or
funded by that executive branch agency.
SEC. 721. No employee of the Department of
Agriculture may be detailed or assigned
from an agency or office funded by this Act
or any other Act to any other agency or of-
fice of the Department for more than 60 days
in a fiscal year unless the individual’s em-
ploying agency or office is fully reimbursed
by the receiving agency or office for the sal-
ary and expenses of the employee for the pe-
riod of assignment.
SEC. 722. For the purposes of determining
eligibility or level of program assistance for
Rural Development programs the Secretary
shall not include incarcerated prison popu-
lations.
SEC. 723. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the
Food and Drug Administration, and the
Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress a de-
tailed spending plan by program, project,
and activity for all the funds made available
under this Act including appropriated user
fees, as defined in the joint explanatory
statement accompanying this Act.
SEC. 724. Of the unobligated balances from
amounts made available for the supple-
mental nutrition program as authorized by
section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
(42 U.S.C. 1786), $500,000,000 are hereby re-
scinded.
SEC. 725. The Secretary shall continue an
intermediary loan packaging program based
on the pilot program in effect for fiscal year
2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502
single family direct loans. The Secretary
shall continue agreements with current
intermediary organizations and with addi-
tional qualified intermediary organizations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1035
January 23, 2019
The Secretary shall work with these organi-
zations to increase effectiveness of the sec-
tion 502 single family direct loan program in
rural communities and shall set aside and
make available from the national reserve
section 502 loans an amount necessary to
support the work of such intermediaries and
provide a priority for review of such loans.
SEC. 726. For loans and loan guarantees
that do not require budget authority and the
program level has been established in this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may in-
crease the program level for such loans and
loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:
Provided, That prior to the Secretary imple-
menting such an increase, the Secretary no-
tifies, in writing, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress at least
15 days in advance.
SEC. 727. None of the credit card refunds or
rebates transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public
Law 107–76) shall be available for obligation
without written notification to, and the
prior approval of, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided, That the refunds or rebates so trans-
ferred shall be available for obligation only
for the acquisition of plant and capital
equipment necessary for the delivery of fi-
nancial, administrative, and information
technology services of primary benefit to the
agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
SEC. 728. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement, ad-
minister, or enforce the ‘‘variety’’ require-
ments of the final rule entitled ‘‘Enhancing
Retailer Standards in the Supplemental Nu-
trition Assistance Program (SNAP)’’ pub-
lished by the Department of Agriculture in
the Federal Register on December 15, 2016 (81
Fed. Reg. 90675) until the Secretary of Agri-
culture amends the definition of the term
‘‘variety’’ as de fined in section
278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, Code of Federal
Regulations, and ‘‘variety’’ as applied in the
definition of the term ‘‘staple food’’ as de-
fined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, to increase the number of
items that qualify as acceptable varieties in
each staple food category so that the total
number of such items in each staple food cat-
egory exceeds the number of such items in
each staple food category included in the
final rule as published on December 15, 2016:
Provided, That until the Secretary promul-
gates such regulatory amendments, the Sec-
retary shall apply the requirements regard-
ing acceptable varieties and breadth of stock
to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram retailers that were in effect on the day
before the date of the enactment of the Agri-
cultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–79).
SEC. 729. None of the funds made available
by this Act or any other Act may be used—
(1) in contravention of section 7606 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940); or
(2) to prohibit the transportation, proc-
essing, sale, or use of industrial hemp, or
seeds of such plant, that is grown or cul-
tivated in accordance with subsection sec-
tion 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014,
within or outside the State in which the in-
dustrial hemp is grown or cultivated.
SEC. 730. Funds provided by this or any
prior Appropriations Act for the Agriculture
and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C.
450i(b) shall be made available without re-
gard to section 7128 of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the match-
ing requirements in laws in effect on the
date before the date of enactment of such
section: Provided, That the requirements of 7
U.S.C. 450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
SEC. 731. In carrying out subsection (h) of
section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture
shall have the same authority with respect
to loans guaranteed under such section and
eligible lenders for such loans as the Sec-
retary has under subsections (h) and (j) of
section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1490p–2)
with respect to loans guaranteed under such
section 538 and eligible lenders for such
loans.
SEC. 732. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to propose, promul-
gate, or implement any rule, or take any
other action with respect to, allowing or re-
quiring information intended for a pre-
scribing health care professional, in the case
of a drug or biological product subject to sec-
tion 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be dis-
tributed to such professional electronically
(in lieu of in paper form) unless and until a
Federal law is enacted to allow or require
such distribution.
SEC. 733. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to notify a sponsor
or otherwise acknowledge receipt of a sub-
mission for an exemption for investigational
use of a drug or biological product under sec-
tion 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section
351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a
human embryo is intentionally created or
modified to include a heritable genetic modi-
fication. Any such submission shall be
deemed to have not been received by the Sec-
retary, and the exemption may not go into
effect.
SEC. 734. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
carry out the final rule promulgated by the
Food and Drug Administration and put into
effect November 16, 2015, in regards to the
hazard analysis and risk-based preventive
control requirements of the current good
manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and
risk-based preventive controls for food for
animals rule with respect to the regulation
of the production, distribution, sale, or re-
ceipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the
alcoholic beverage production process.
SEC. 735. Hereafter, notwithstanding 5
U.S.C.5315, the Administrator for Rural Util-
ities Service, U.S. Department of Agri-
culture, shall receive basic pay at a rate not
to exceed the maximum amount of com-
pensation payable to a member of the Senior
Executive Service under subsection (b) of
section 5382 of title 5 United States Code, ex-
cept that the certification requirement in
that subsection shall not apply to the com-
pensation of the Administrator.
SEC. 736. Funds made available under title
II of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721 et
seq.) may only be used to provide assistance
to recipient nations if adequate monitoring
and controls, as determined by the Adminis-
trator, are in place to ensure that emergency
food aid is received by the intended bene-
ficiaries in areas affected by food shortages
and not diverted for unauthorized or inap-
propriate purposes.
SEC. 737. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Secretary of
Agriculture, acting through the Food and
Nutrition Service, to commence any new re-
search and evaluation projects until the Sec-
retary submits to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress a re-
search and evaluation plan for fiscal year
2019, prepared in coordination with the Re-
search, Education, and Economics mission
area of the Department of Agriculture, and a
period of 30 days beginning on the date of the
submission of the plan expires to permit
Congressional review of the plan.
SEC. 738. There is hereby appropriated
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to carry out section 6407 of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107a): Provided, That the Secretary
may allow eligible entities, or comparable
entities that provide energy efficiency serv-
ices using their own billing mechanism to
offer loans to customers in any part of their
service territory and to offer loans to replace
a manufactured housing unit with another
manufactured housing unit, if replacement
would be more cost effective in saving en-
ergy.
SEC. 739. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
shall—
(1) conduct audits in a manner that evalu-
ates the following factors in the country or
region being audited, as applicable—
(A) veterinary control and oversight;
(B) disease history and vaccination prac-
tices;
(C) livestock demographics and
traceability;
(D) epidemiological separation from poten-
tial sources of infection;
(E) surveillance practices;
(F) diagnostic laboratory capabilities; and
(G) emergency preparedness and response;
and
(2) promptly make publicly available the
final reports of any audits or reviews con-
ducted pursuant to subsection (1).
(b) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under its international trade agree-
ments.
SEC. 740. No food that bears or contains
partially hydrogenated oils (as defined in the
order published by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration in the Federal Register on June
17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et seq.)) shall be
considered to be adulterated within the
meaning of subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)(C)(i) of
section 402 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 342(a)) because such
food contains such partially hydrogenated
oils until the applicable compliance dates
specified by FDA in the Federal Register on
May 21, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 23358 et seq.).
SEC. 741. For fiscal years 2019 through 2025,
the Administrators of the Agricultural Re-
search Service and the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service may make not to
exceed 50 appointments in any fiscal year for
employees of such agencies at the National
Bio- and Agro-defense Facility (NBAF) in
Manhattan, Kansas: Provided, That such ap-
pointments may be made in the manner pro-
vided by 7 U.S.C. 7657(b)(4)(A)(i–v): Provided
further, That such appointments may be
made at a rate of basic pay that exceeds the
rate payable for such positions under the
General Schedule or other applicable sched-
ule, as appropriate, but may not be more
than the rate payable for a position at level
I of the Executive Schedule, unless the rate
is approved by the President under section
5377(d)(2) of title 5.
SEC. 742. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000 for the Secretary to carry out a
pilot program that provides forestry inven-
tory analysis, forest management and eco-
nomic outcomes modelling for certain cur-
rently enrolled Conservation Reserve Pro-
gram participants. The Secretary shall allow
the Commodity Credit Corporation to enter
into agreements with and provide grants to
qualified non-profit organizations dedicated
to conservation, forestry and wildlife habi-
tats, that also have experience in conducting
accurate forest inventory analysis through
the use of advanced, cost-effective tech-
nology. The Secretary shall focus the anal-
ysis on lands enrolled for at least eight years
and located in areas with a substantial con-
centration of acres enrolled under conserva-
tion practices devoted to multiple bottom-
land hardwood tree species including CP03,
CP03A, CP11, CP22, CP31 and CP40.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1036 January 23, 2019
SEC. 743. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available by this Act and notwith-
standing the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310,
there is appropriated $4,000,000, to remain
available until expended, to implement non-
renewable agreements on eligible lands, in-
cluding flooded agricultural lands, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, under the Water
Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301–1311).
SEC. 744. There is hereby appropriated
$1,996,000 to carry out section 1621 of Public
Law 110–246.
SEC. 745. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to carry out any ac-
tivities or incur any expense related to the
issuance of licenses under section 3 of the
Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2133), or the re-
newal of such licenses, to class B dealers who
sell dogs and cats for use in research, experi-
ments, teaching, or testing.
SEC. 746. There is appropriated $6,000,000 to
the Commodity Credit Corporation, in addi-
tion to amounts otherwise made available,
for section 1110(f)(3) of the Food Security Act
of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o(f)(3)).
SEC. 747. (a)(1) No Federal funds made
available for this fiscal year for the rural
water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid
waste management programs authorized by
sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 et seq.) shall be used
for a project for the construction, alteration,
maintenance, or repair of a public water or
wastewater system unless all of the iron and
steel products used in the project are pro-
duced in the United States.
(2) In this section, the term ‘‘iron and steel
products’’ means the following products
made primarily of iron or steel: lined or un-
lined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and
other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks,
flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves,
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete,
and construction materials.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any
case or category of cases in which the Sec-
retary of Agriculture (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) or the designee
of the Secretary finds that—
(1) applying subsection (a) would be incon-
sistent with the public interest;
(2) iron and steel products are not produced
in the United States in sufficient and reason-
ably available quantities or of a satisfactory
quality; or
(3) inclusion of iron and steel products pro-
duced in the United States will increase the
cost of the overall project by more than 25
percent.
(c) If the Secretary or the designee re-
ceives a request for a waiver under this sec-
tion, the Secretary or the designee shall
make available to the public on an informal
basis a copy of the request and information
available to the Secretary or the designee
concerning the request, and shall allow for
informal public input on the request for at
least 15 days prior to making a finding based
on the request. The Secretary or the des-
ignee shall make the request and accom-
panying information available by electronic
means, including on the official public Inter-
net Web site of the Department.
(d) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under international agreements.
(e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25
percent of the funds appropriated in this Act
for ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural Water
and Waste Disposal Program Account’’ for
carrying out the provisions described in sub-
section (a)(1) for management and oversight
of the requirements of this section.
(f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with re-
spect to a project for which the engineering
plans and specifications include use of iron
and steel products otherwise prohibited by
such subsection if the plans and specifica-
tions have received required approvals from
State agencies prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(g) For purposes of this section, the terms
‘‘United States’’ and ‘‘State’’ shall include
each of the several States, the District of Co-
lumbia, and each federally recognized Indian
tribe.
SEC. 748. The Secretary shall set aside for
Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP)
Zones, until August 15, 2019, an amount of
funds made available in title III under the
headings of Rural Housing Insurance Fund
Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help
Housing Grants, Rural Housing Assistance
Grants, Rural Community Facilities Pro-
gram Account, Rural Business Program Ac-
count, Rural Development Loan Fund Pro-
gram Account, and Rural Water and Waste
Disposal Program Account, equal to the
amount obligated in REAP Zones with re-
spect to funds provided under such headings
in the most recent fiscal year any such funds
were obligated under such headings for
REAP Zones.
SEC. 749. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for a pilot program for the Secretary
to provide grants to qualified non-profit or-
ganizations and public housing authorities
to provide technical assistance, including fi-
nancial and legal services, to RHS multi-
family housing borrowers to facilitate the
acquisition of RHS multi-family housing
properties in areas where the Secretary de-
termines a risk of loss of affordable housing,
by non-profit housing organizations and pub-
lic housing authorities as authorized by law
that commit to keep such properties in the
RHS multi-family housing program for a pe-
riod of time as determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 750. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used in any way, directly or
indirectly, to influence congressional action
on any legislation or appropriation matters
pending before Congress, other than to com-
municate to Members of Congress as de-
scribed in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
SEC. 751. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) shall carry out a pilot program dur-
ing fiscal year 2019 with respect to the 2018
crop year for county-level agriculture risk
coverage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9017(b)(1)), that provides all or some of the
State Farm Service Agency offices in each
State the opportunity to provide agricul-
tural producers in the State a supplemental
payment described in subsection (c) based on
the alternate calculation method described
in subsection (b) for 1 or more counties in a
State if the office for that State determines
that the alternate calculation method is nec-
essary to ensure that, to the maximum ex-
tent practicable, there are not significant
yield calculation disparities between com-
parable counties in the State.
(b) The alternate calculation method re-
ferred to in subsection (a) is a method of cal-
culating the actual yield for the 2018 crop
year for county-level agriculture risk cov-
erage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9017(b)(1)), under which—
(1) county data of the National Agricul-
tural Statistics Service (referred to in this
section as ‘‘NASS data’’) is used for the cal-
culations;
(2) if there is insufficient NASS data for a
county (as determined under standards of
the Secretary in effect as of the date of en-
actment of this Act) or the available NASS
data produces a substantially disparate re-
sult, the calculation of the county yield is
determined using comparable contiguous
county NASS data as determined by the
Farm Service Agency office in the applicable
State; and
(3) if there is insufficient NASS data for a
comparable contiguous county (as deter-
mined under standards of the Secretary in
effect as of the date of enactment of this
Act), the calculation of the county yield is
determined using reliable yield data from
other sources, such as Risk Management
Agency data, National Agricultural Statis-
tics Service district data, National Agricul-
tural Statistics Service State yield data, or
other data as determined by the Farm Serv-
ice Agency office in the applicable State.
(c)(1) A supplemental payment made under
the pilot program established under this sec-
tion may be made to an agricultural pro-
ducer who is subject to the alternate calcula-
tion method described in subsection (b) if
that agricultural producer would otherwise
receive a county-level agriculture risk cov-
erage payment for the 2018 crop year in an
amount that is less than the payment that
the agricultural producer would receive
under the alternate calculation method.
(2) The amount of a supplemental payment
to an agricultural producer under this sec-
tion may not exceed the difference between—
(A) the payment that the agricultural pro-
ducer would have received without the alter-
nate calculation method described in sub-
section (b); and
(B) the payment that the agricultural pro-
ducer would receive using the alternate cal-
culation method.
(d)(1) There is appropriated to the Sec-
retary, out of funds of the Treasury not oth-
erwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, to carry
out the pilot program described in this sec-
tion.
(2) Of the funds appropriated, the Sec-
retary shall use not more than $5,000,000 to
carry out the pilot program described in this
section.
(e)(1) To the maximum extent practicable,
the Secretary shall select States to partici-
pate in the pilot program under this section
so the cost of the pilot program equals the
amount provided under subsection (d).
(2) To the extent that the cost of the pilot
program exceeds the amount made available,
the Secretary shall reduce all payments
under the pilot program on a pro rata basis.
(f) Nothing in this section affects the cal-
culation of actual yield for purposes of coun-
ty-level agriculture risk coverage payments
under section 1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural
Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)) other than
payments made in accordance with the pilot
program under this section.
(g) A calculation of actual yield made
using the alternate calculation method de-
scribed in subsection (b) shall not be used as
a basis for any agriculture risk coverage
payment determinations under section 1117
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017)
other than for purposes of the pilot program
under this section.
SEC. 752. The Secretary of Agriculture and
the Secretary’s designees are hereby granted
the same access to information and subject
to the same requirements applicable to the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment as provided in section 453 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653) and section
6103(1)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1603(1)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify
the income for individuals participating in
sections 502, 504, 521, and 542 of the Housing
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1490a, and
1490r), notwithstanding section 453(l)(1) of
the Social Security Act.
SEC. 753. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to procure raw or
processed poultry products imported into the
United States from the People’s Republic of
China for use in the school lunch program
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1037
January 23, 2019
under the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), the
Child and Adult Care Food Program under
section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766), the
Summer Food Service Program for Children
under section 13 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761),
or the school breakfast program under the
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et
seq.).
SEC. 754. In response to an eligible commu-
nity where the drinking water supplies are
inadequate due to a natural disaster, as de-
termined by the Secretary, including
drought or severe weather, the Secretary
may provide potable water through the
Emergency Community Water Assistance
Grant Program for an additional period of
time not to exceed 120 days beyond the es-
tablished period provided under the Program
in order to protect public health.
SEC. 755. Of the total amounts made avail-
able by this Act for direct loans and grants
in the following headings: ‘‘Rural Housing
Service—Rural Housing Insurance Fund Pro-
gram Account’’; ‘‘Rural Housing Service—
Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants’’;
‘‘Rural Housing Service—Rural Housing As-
sistance Grants’’; ‘‘Rural Housing Service—
Rural Community Facilities Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Serv-
ice—Rural Business Program Account’’;
‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Service—Rural
Economic Development Loans Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Serv-
ice—Rural Cooperative Development
Grants’’; ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural
Water and Waste Disposal Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural
Electrification and Telecommunications
Loans Program Account’’; and ‘‘Rural Utili-
ties Service—Distance Learning, Telemedi-
cine, and Broadband Program’’, to the max-
imum extent feasible, at least 10 percent of
the funds shall be allocated for assistance in
persistent poverty counties under this sec-
tion, including, notwithstanding any other
provision regarding population limits, any
county seat of such a persistent poverty
county that has a population that does not
exceed the authorized population limit by
more than 10 percent: Provided, That for pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘persistent
poverty counties’’ means any county that
has had 20 percent or more of its population
living in poverty over the past 30 years, as
measured by the 1980, 1990, and 2000 decennial
censuses, and 2007–2011 American Community
Survey 5-year average: Provided further, That
with respect to specific activities for which
program levels have been made available by
this Act that are not supported by budget
authority, the requirements of this section
shall be applied to such program level.
SEC. 756. (a) No funds shall be used to final-
ize the proposed rule entitled ‘‘Eligibility of
the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to Ex-
port to the United States Poultry Products
from Birds Slaughtered in the PRC’’ pub-
lished in the Federal Register by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture on June 16, 2017 (82 Fed.
Reg. 27625), unless the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall—
(1) ensure that the poultry slaughter in-
spection system for the PRC is equivalent to
that of the United States;
(2) ensure that, before any poultry prod-
ucts can enter the United States from any
such poultry plant, such poultry products
comply with all other applicable require-
ments for poultry products in interstate
commerce in the United States;
(3) conduct periodic verification reviews
and audits of any such plants in the PRC in-
tending to export into the United States
processed poultry products;
(4) conduct re-inspection of such poultry
products at United States ports-of-entry to
check the general condition of such prod-
ucts, for the proper certification and label-
ing of such products, and for any damage to
such products that may have occurred dur-
ing transportation; and
(5) ensure that shipments of any such poul-
try products selected to enter the United
States are subject to additional re-inspec-
tion procedures at appropriate levels to
verify that the products comply with rel-
evant Federal regulations or standards, in-
cluding examinations for product defects and
laboratory analyses to detect harmful chem-
ical residues or pathogen testing appropriate
for the products involved.
(b) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with obligations of the United
States under any trade agreement to which
the United States is a party.
SEC. 757. In addition to any other funds
made available in this Act or any other Act,
there is appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out
section 18(g)(8) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g)),
to remain available until expended.
SEC. 758. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Food and
Drug Administration to develop, issue, pro-
mote, or advance any regulations applicable
to food manufacturers for population-wide
sodium reduction actions or to develop,
issue, promote or advance final guidance ap-
plicable to food manufacturers for long term
population-wide sodium reduction actions
until the date on which a dietary reference
intake report with respect to sodium is com-
pleted.
SEC. 759. There is hereby appropriated
$2,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the cost of loans and
grants that is consistent with section 4206 of
the Agricultural Act of 2014, for necessary
expenses of the Secretary to support projects
that provide access to healthy food in under-
served areas, to create and preserve quality
jobs, and to revitalize low-income commu-
nities.
SEC. 760. For an additional amount for
‘‘Animal and Plant Health Inspection Serv-
ice—Salaries and Expenses’’, $8,500,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, for
one-time control and management and asso-
ciated activities directly related to the mul-
tiple-agency response to citrus greening.
SEC. 761. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to en-
force the final rule promulgated by the Food
and Drug Administration entitled ‘‘Stand-
ards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing,
and Holding of Produce for Human Consump-
tion,’’ and published on November 27, 2015,
with respect to the regulation of the produc-
tion, distribution, sale, or receipt of grape
varietals that are grown, harvested and used
solely for wine and receive commercial proc-
essing that adequately reduces the presence
of microorganisms of public health signifi-
cance.
SEC. 762. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to revoke an excep-
tion made—
(1) pursuant to the final rule of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture entitled ‘‘Exceptions to
Geographic Areas for Official Agencies Under
the USGSA’’ (68 Fed. Reg. 19137 (April 18,
2003)); and
(2) on a date before April 14, 2017.
SEC. 763. For school year 2019–2020, only a
school food authority that had a negative
balance in the nonprofit school food service
account as of December 31, 2018, shall be re-
quired to establish a price for paid lunches in
accordance with Section 12(p) of the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42
U.S.C. 1760(p).
SEC. 764. There is hereby appropriated
$16,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for an additional amount for tele-
medicine and distance learning services in
rural areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa
et seq., to help address the opioid epidemic
in rural America.
SEC. 765. (a) There is hereby appropriated
$125,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for an additional amount for Sec. 779
of Public Law 115–141.
(b) Section 313 of the Rural Electrification
Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 940c), shall
be applied for fiscal year 2019 as if the fol-
lowing were inserted after the final period in
subsection (b)(2)(B): ‘‘In addition, the Sec-
retary shall use $425,000,000 of funds available
in fiscal year 2019 for an additional amount
for the same purpose as funds appropriated
by Sec. 779 of Public Law 115–141.’’: Provided,
That any use of such funds shall be treated
as a reprogramming of funds under section
717 of this Act.
SEC. 766. For an additional amount for the
cost of direct loans and grants made under
the ‘‘Rural Water and Waste Disposal Pro-
gram Account’’, $75,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended.
SEC. 767. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for a pilot program for the
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
to provide grants to nonprofit organizations
for programs and services to establish and
enhance farming and ranching opportunities
for military veterans.
SEC. 768. Not later than September 30, 2019,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall finalize the draft guidance for industry
entitled ‘‘Bacterial Risk Control Strategies
for Blood Collection Establishments and
Transfusion Services to Enhance the Safety
and Availability of Platelets for Trans-
fusion’’ issued by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration in March of 2016.
SEC. 769. Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this section, the
Secretary of Agriculture shall submit a re-
port to the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress that includes a sum-
mary of the process used in establishing the
2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans
published pursuant to section 301 of the Na-
tional Nutrition Monitoring and Related Re-
search Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5341) and an ex-
planation with respect to the decision to in-
corporate or exclude in such Dietary Guide-
lines for Americans recommendations from
the report by the National Academies of
Science, Engineering, and Medicine entitled
‘‘Redesigning the Process for Establishing
the Dietary Guidelines for Americans’’ and
issued September, 2017.
SEC. 770. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used to implement, ad-
minister, or enforce the requirement in the
final rule entitled ‘‘Food Labeling: Revision
of the Nutrition and Supplement Facts La-
bels’’, published in the Federal Register on
May 27, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 33742), that any
single ingredient sugar, honey, agave, or
syrup (including maple syrup) that is pack-
aged and offered for sale as a single ingre-
dient food bear the declaration ‘‘Includes
‘X’g Added Sugars’’.
SEC. 771. Paragraph (4) of section 1444(a) of
the National Agricultural Research, Exten-
sion, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7
U.S.C. 3221 (a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘No more than’’ and insert-
ing the following: ‘‘For fiscal years ending
on or before September 30, 2018, no more
than’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘by an institution’’ and in-
serting ‘‘by an eligible institution under this
section’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘For fiscal years beginning on or
after October 1, 2018, the limitation specified
in the preceding sentence shall not apply and
100 percent of such funds may be carried for-
ward to the succeeding fiscal year.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1038 January 23, 2019
SEC. 772. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement or en-
force the matter following the first comma
in the second sentence of footnote (c) of sec-
tion 220.8(c) of title 7, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, with respect to the substitution of
vegetables for fruits under the school break-
fast program established under section 4 of
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.
1773).
SEC. 773. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall provide to any State or county im-
pacted by a volcanic eruption covered by a
major disaster declared by the President in
calendar year 2018 in accordance with section
401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170) technical assistance—
(1) to assess damage to agricultural pro-
duction and rural infrastructure; and
(2) to develop recovery plans for impacted
farmers, ranchers, and rural communities.
SEC. 774. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture,
in coordination with the Administrator of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, shall establish a working
group (referred to in this section as the
‘‘working group’’)—
(1) to study how mangroves, kelp forests,
tidal marshes, and seagrass meadows could
help deacidify the oceans;
(2) to study emerging ocean farming prac-
tices that use kelp and seagrass to deacidify
the oceans while providing feedstock for ag-
riculture and other commercial and indus-
trial inputs; and
(3) to coordinate and conduct research to
develop and enhance pilot-scale research for
farming of kelp and seagrass in order—
(A) to deacidify ocean environments;
(B) to produce a feedstock for agriculture;
and
(C) to develop other scalable commercial
applications for kelp, seagrass, or products
derived from kelp or seagrass.
(b) The working group shall include—
(1) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(2) the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration;
(3) representatives of any relevant offices
within the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration; and
(4) the Assistant Secretary of Energy for
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
(c) Not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of this Act, the working group
shall submit to Congress a report that in-
cludes—
(1) the findings of the research described in
subsection (a);
(2) the results of the pilot-scale research
described in subsection (a)(3); and
(3) any policy recommendations based on
those findings and results.
SEC. 775. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a re-
port describing the ways in which conserva-
tion programs administered by the Natural
Resources Conservation Service may be bet-
ter used for the conservation of ocelots
(Leopardus pardalis) and any action taken
by the Chief of the Natural Resources Con-
servation Service relating to the conserva-
tion of ocelots.
SEC. 776. Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Rural
Housing Service of the Department of Agri-
culture shall submit to Congress a report in-
cluding—
(1) a description of—
(A) the number of properties assisted under
title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.
1471 et seq.) that are reaching the end of
their loan term;
(B) the location of each property described
in subparagraph (A);
(C) the number of units in each property
described in subparagraph (A); and
(D) the date on which each the loan for
each property described in subparagraph (A)
is expected to reach maturity;
(2) the strategy of the Rural Housing Serv-
ice to preserve the long-term affordability of
the properties described in paragraph (1)(A)
when the loan matures; and
(3) a description of the resources and tools
that the Rural Housing Service needs from
Congress in order to preserve the long-term
affordability of the properties described in
paragraph (1) (A).
SEC. 777. Out of amounts appropriated to
the Food and Drug Administration under
title VI, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, acting through the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, shall, not later than July
1, 2019, and following the review required
under Executive Order 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601
note; relating to regulatory planning and re-
view), issue advice revising the advice pro-
vided in the notice of availability entitled
‘‘Advice About Eating Fish, From the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency and Food and
Drug Administration; Revised Fish Advice;
Availability’’ (82 Fed. Reg. 6571 (January 19,
2017)), in a manner that is consistent with
nutrition science recognized by the Food and
Drug Administration on the net effects of
seafood consumption.
SEC. 778. In addition to any funds made
available in this Act or any other Act, there
is hereby appropriated $5,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, for grants
from the National Institute of Food and Ag-
riculture to the 1890 Institutions to support
the Centers of Excellence.
SEC. 779. Section 6(e)(1)(B) of the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42
U.S.C. 1755(e)(1)(B)) is amended by striking
‘‘September 30, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’.
SEC. 780. During fiscal year 2019, the Food
and Drug Administration shall not allow the
introduction or delivery for introduction
into interstate commerce of any food that
contains genetically engineered salmon until
the FDA publishes final labeling guidelines
for informing consumers of such content.
SEC. 781. In addition to funds appropriated
in this Act, there is hereby appropriated
$216,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, under the heading ‘‘Food for Peace
Title II Grants’’: Provided, That the funds
made available under this section shall be
used for the purposes set forth in the Food
for Peace Act for both emergency and non-
emergency purposes.
SEC. 782. Title III of the Department of Ag-
riculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C.
301 et. seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following— ‘‘SEC. 310. CONVERSION
AUTHORITY. Notwithstanding Title 5,
United States Code, a student, who is a U.S.
Citizen and who participates in a scholarship
program carried out by the Department may
be noncompetitively converted to an ap-
pointment in the competitive service by an
agency or office within the Department, pro-
vided the student meets the requirements for
such conversion, as determined by the Sec-
retary’’.
SEC. 783. There is appropriated to the
‘‘Farm Service Agency’’ $9,000,000 for pur-
poses of making payments to producers im-
pacted by an oriental fruit fly quarantine as
referenced in H.Rpt.115-232 to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of the un-
obligated balances available under Treasury
symbol code 128/90600, $5,000,000 are re-
scinded.
SEC. 784. In administering the pilot pro-
gram established by section 779 of division A
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141), the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall—
(1) ensure that applicants that are deter-
mined to be ineligible for the pilot program
have a means of appealing or otherwise chal-
lenging that determination in a timely fash-
ion; and
(2) in determining whether an entity may
overbuild or duplicate broadband expansion
efforts made by any entity that has received
a broadband loan from the Rural Utilities
Service, not consider loans that were re-
scinded or defaulted on, or loans the terms
and conditions of which were not met, if the
entity under consideration has not pre-
viously defaulted on, or failed to meet the
terms and conditions of, a Rural Utilities
Service loan or had a Rural Utilities Service
loan rescinded.
SEC. 785. For the cost of loans and grants,
$3,000,000 under the same terms and condi-
tions as authorized by section 379E of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act (7 U.S.C. 2008s): Provided, That such costs
of loans, including the cost of modifying
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
SEC. 786. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to pay the salaries
or expenses of personnel—
(1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the
Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
(2) to inspect horses under section 903 of
the Federal Agriculture Improvement and
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note; Public
Law 104–127); or
(3) to implement or enforce section 352.19
of title 9, Code of Federal Regulations (or a
successor regulation).
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION B—COMMERCE, JUSTICE,
SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
INTERNATIONAL TRADE ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses for international
trade activities of the Department of Com-
merce provided for by law, and for engaging
in trade promotional activities abroad, in-
cluding expenses of grants and cooperative
agreements for the purpose of promoting ex-
ports of United States firms, without regard
to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, United
States Code; full medical coverage for de-
pendent members of immediate families of
employees stationed overseas and employees
temporarily posted overseas; travel and
transportation of employees of the Inter-
national Trade Administration between two
points abroad, without regard to section
40118 of title 49, United States Code; employ-
ment of citizens of the United States and
aliens by contract for services; rental of
space abroad for periods not exceeding 10
years, and expenses of alteration, repair, or
improvement; purchase or construction of
temporary demountable exhibition struc-
tures for use abroad; payment of tort claims,
in the manner authorized in the first para-
graph of section 2672 of title 28, United
States Code, when such claims arise in for-
eign countries; not to exceed $294,300 for offi-
cial representation expenses abroad; pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles for official
use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle;
obtaining insurance on official motor vehi-
cles; and rental of tie lines, $495,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020, of
which $11,000,000 is to be derived from fees to
be retained and used by the International
Trade Administration, notwithstanding sec-
tion 3302 of title 31, United States Code: Pro-
vided, That, of amounts provided under this
heading, not less than $16,400,000 shall be for
China antidumping and countervailing duty
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1039
January 23, 2019
enforcement and compliance activities: Pro-
vided further, That the provisions of the first
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section
108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cul-
tural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f)
and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these
activities; and that for the purpose of this
Act, contributions under the provisions of
the Mutual Educational and Cultural Ex-
change Act of 1961 shall include payment for
assessments for services provided as part of
these activities.
BUREAU OF INDUSTRY AND SECURITY
OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for export adminis-
tration and national security activities of
the Department of Commerce, including
costs associated with the performance of ex-
port administration field activities both do-
mestically and abroad; full medical coverage
for dependent members of immediate fami-
lies of employees stationed overseas; em-
ployment of citizens of the United States
and aliens by contract for services abroad;
payment of tort claims, in the manner au-
thorized in the first paragraph of section 2672
of title 28, United States Code, when such
claims arise in foreign countries; not to ex-
ceed $13,500 for official representation ex-
penses abroad; awards of compensation to in-
formers under the Export Control Reform
Act of 2018 (subtitle B of title XVII of the
John S. McCain National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2019; Public Law 115–
232; 132 Stat. 2208; 50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.), and
as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of
June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b));
and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for
official use and motor vehicles for law en-
forcement use with special requirement vehi-
cles eligible for purchase without regard to
any price limitation otherwise established
by law, $118,050,000, to remain available until
expended, except that of the amount appro-
priated, not less than $4,550,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2019, and shall
only be available for contractor support to
implement the product exclusion process for
articles covered by actions taken under sec-
tion 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962
(19 U.S.C. 1862): Provided, That the provisions
of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all
of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational
and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out
these activities: Provided further, That pay-
ments and contributions collected and ac-
cepted for materials or services provided as
part of such activities may be retained for
use in covering the cost of such activities,
and for providing information to the public
with respect to the export administration
and national security activities of the De-
partment of Commerce and other export con-
trol programs of the United States and other
governments: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Commerce may transfer up to
$2,000,000 to this account, from funds avail-
able for ‘‘Departmental Management, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’ or for ‘‘Departmental
Management, Renovation and Moderniza-
tion’’: Provided further, That any funds trans-
ferred pursuant to the previous proviso shall
remain available until September 30, 2019,
and shall only be available for contractor
support to implement the product exclusion
process for articles covered by actions taken
under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862): Provided further, That
such transfer authority is in addition to any
other transfer authority contained in this
Act: Provided further, That any such transfer
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
For grants for economic development as-
sistance as provided by the Public Works and
Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade
adjustment assistance, and for grants au-
thorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15
U.S.C. 3722), $265,000,000, to remain available
until expended, of which $23,500,000 shall be
for grants under such section 27.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of administering
the economic development assistance pro-
grams as provided for by law, $39,000,000: Pro-
vided, That these funds may be used to mon-
itor projects approved pursuant to title I of
the Public Works Employment Act of 1976,
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, section 27 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), and the Com-
munity Emergency Drought Relief Act of
1977.
MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Department
of Commerce in fostering, promoting, and
developing minority business enterprise, in-
cluding expenses of grants, contracts, and
other agreements with public or private or-
ganizations, $40,000,000.
ECONOMIC AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, as authorized by
law, of economic and statistical analysis pro-
grams of the Department of Commerce,
$101,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
BUREAU OF THE CENSUS
CURRENT SURVEYS AND PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses for collecting, com-
piling, analyzing, preparing, and publishing
statistics, provided for by law, $270,000,000:
Provided, That, from amounts provided here-
in, funds may be used for promotion, out-
reach, and marketing activities.
PERIODIC CENSUSES AND PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for collecting, com-
piling, analyzing, preparing, and publishing
statistics for periodic censuses and programs
provided for by law, $3,551,388,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That, from amounts provided herein, funds
may be used for promotion, outreach, and
marketing activities: Provided further, That
within the amounts appropriated, $3,556,000
shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspec-
tor General’’ account for activities associ-
ated with carrying out investigations and
audits related to the Bureau of the Census:
Provided further, That not more than 50 per-
cent of the amounts made available under
this heading for information technology re-
lated to 2020 census delivery, including the
Census Enterprise Data Collection and Proc-
essing (CEDCaP) program, may be obligated
until the Secretary updates the previous ex-
penditure plan and resubmits to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate a plan for ex-
penditure that: (1) identifies for each
CEDCaP project/investment over $25,000: (A)
the functional and performance capabilities
to be delivered and the mission benefits to be
realized; (B) an updated estimated lifecycle
cost, including cumulative expenditures to
date by fiscal year, and all revised estimates
for development, maintenance, and oper-
ations; (C) key milestones to be met; and (D)
impacts of cost variances on other Census
programs; (2) details for each project/invest-
ment: (A) reasons for any cost and schedule
variances; and (B) top risks and mitigation
strategies; and (3) has been submitted to the
Government Accountability Office.
NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND
INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, as provided for by
law, of the National Telecommunications
and Information Administration (NTIA),
$39,500,000, of which not to exceed $15,000,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2020: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31
U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce
shall charge Federal agencies for costs in-
curred in spectrum management, analysis,
operations, and related services, and such
fees shall be retained and used as offsetting
collections for costs of such spectrum serv-
ices, to remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of Com-
merce is authorized to retain and use as off-
setting collections all funds transferred, or
previously transferred, from other Govern-
ment agencies for all costs incurred in tele-
communications research, engineering, and
related activities by the Institute for Tele-
communication Sciences of NTIA, in further-
ance of its assigned functions under this
paragraph, and such funds received from
other Government agencies shall remain
available until expended.
PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES,
PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION
For the administration of prior-year
grants, recoveries and unobligated balances
of funds previously appropriated are avail-
able for the administration of all open grants
until their expiration.
UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK
OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the United
States Patent and Trademark Office
(USPTO) provided for by law, including de-
fense of suits instituted against the Under
Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual
Property and Director of the USPTO,
$3,370,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as offsetting collections of fees and
surcharges assessed and collected by the
USPTO under any law are received during
fiscal year 2019, so as to result in a fiscal
year 2019 appropriation from the general
fund estimated at $0: Provided further, That
during fiscal year 2019, should the total
amount of such offsetting collections be less
than $3,370,000,000 this amount shall be re-
duced accordingly: Provided further, That any
amount received in excess of $3,370,000,000 in
fiscal year 2019 and deposited in the Patent
and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That the Director of USPTO shall sub-
mit a spending plan to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate for any amounts made
available by the preceding proviso and such
spending plan shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section: Provided
further, That any amounts reprogrammed in
accordance with the preceding proviso shall
be transferred to the United States Patent
and Trademark Office ‘‘Salaries and Ex-
penses’’ account: Provided further, That from
amounts provided herein, not to exceed $900
shall be made available in fiscal year 2019 for
official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That in fiscal year
2019 from the amounts made available for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1040 January 23, 2019
‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ for the USPTO, the
amounts necessary to pay (1) the difference
between the percentage of basic pay contrib-
uted by the USPTO and employees under sec-
tion 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code,
and the normal cost percentage (as defined
by section 8331(17) of that title) as provided
by the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) for USPTO’s specific use, of basic pay,
of employees subject to subchapter III of
chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the present
value of the otherwise unfunded accruing
costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO’s
specific use of post-retirement life insurance
and post-retirement health benefits coverage
for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB)
and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance
(FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund, the
FEGLI Fund, and the FEHB Fund, as appro-
priate, and shall be available for the author-
ized purposes of those accounts: Provided fur-
ther, That any differences between the
present value factors published in OPM’s
yearly 300 series benefit letters and the fac-
tors that OPM provides for USPTO’s specific
use shall be recognized as an imputed cost on
USPTO’s financial statements, where appli-
cable: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, all fees
and surcharges assessed and collected by
USPTO are available for USPTO only pursu-
ant to section 42(c) of title 35, United States
Code, as amended by section 22 of the Leahy-
Smith America Invents Act (Public Law 112–
29): Provided further, That within the
amounts appropriated, $1,500,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for activities associated with
carrying out investigations and audits re-
lated to the USPTO.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND
TECHNOLOGY
SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND
SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology (NIST),
$724,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not to exceed $9,000,000 may
be transferred to the ‘‘Working Capital
Fund’’: Provided, That not to exceed $5,000
shall be for official reception and representa-
tion expenses: Provided further, That NIST
may provide local transportation for summer
undergraduate research fellowship program
participants.
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES
For necessary expenses for industrial tech-
nology services, $155,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $140,000,000
shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing Ex-
tension Partnership, and of which $15,000,000
shall be for the National Network for Manu-
facturing Innovation (also known as ‘‘Manu-
facturing USA’’).
CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES
For construction of new research facilities,
including architectural and engineering de-
sign, and for renovation and maintenance of
existing facilities, not otherwise provided for
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, as authorized by sections 13
through 15 of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C.
278c–278e), $106,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary
of Commerce shall include in the budget jus-
tification materials that the Secretary sub-
mits to Congress in support of the Depart-
ment of Commerce budget (as submitted
with the budget of the President under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code)
an estimate for each National Institute of
Standards and Technology construction
project having a total multi-year program
cost of more than $5,000,000, and simulta-
neously the budget justification materials
shall include an estimate of the budgetary
requirements for each such project for each
of the 5 subsequent fiscal years.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of activities au-
thorized by law for the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, including
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft
and vessels; pilot programs for state-led fish-
eries management, notwithstanding any
other provision of law; grants, contracts, or
other payments to nonprofit organizations
for the purposes of conducting activities pur-
suant to cooperative agreements; and reloca-
tion of facilities, $3,596,997,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That fees and donations received by the Na-
tional Ocean Service for the management of
national marine sanctuaries may be retained
and used for the salaries and expenses associ-
ated with those activities, notwithstanding
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:
Provided further, That in addition, $157,980,000
shall be derived by transfer from the fund en-
titled ‘‘Promote and Develop Fishery Prod-
ucts and Research Pertaining to American
Fisheries’’, which shall only be used for fish-
ery activities related to the Saltonstall-Ken-
nedy Grant Program; Fisheries Data Collec-
tions, Surveys and Assessments; and Inter-
jurisdictional Fisheries Grants: Provided fur-
ther, That of the $3,772,477,000 provided for in
direct obligations under this heading,
$3,596,997,000 is appropriated from the general
fund, $157,980,000 is provided by transfer, and
$17,500,000 is derived from recoveries of prior
year obligations: Provided further, That any
deviation from the amounts designated for
specific activities in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act), or any use of deobligated balances of
funds provided under this heading in pre-
vious years, shall be subject to the proce-
dures set forth in section 505 of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That in addition, for necessary
retired pay expenses under the Retired Serv-
iceman’s Family Protection and Survivor
Benefits Plan, and for payments for the med-
ical care of retired personnel and their de-
pendents under the Dependents’ Medical
Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as may
be necessary.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For procurement, acquisition and con-
struction of capital assets, including alter-
ation and modification costs, of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
$1,755,349,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, except that funds provided
for acquisition and construction of vessels
and construction of facilities shall remain
available until expended: Provided, That of
the $1,768,349,000 provided for in direct obli-
gations under this heading, $1,755,349,000 is
appropriated from the general fund and
$13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of
prior year obligations: Provided further, That
any deviation from the amounts designated
for specific activities in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act), or any use of deobligated balances of
funds provided under this heading in pre-
vious years, shall be subject to the proce-
dures set forth in section 505 of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of Com-
merce shall include in budget justification
materials that the Secretary submits to Con-
gress in support of the Department of Com-
merce budget (as submitted with the budget
of the President under section 1105(a) of title
31, United States Code) an estimate for each
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration procurement, acquisition or con-
struction project having a total of more than
$5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget jus-
tification shall include an estimate of the
budgetary requirements for each such
project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal
years: Provided further, That, within the
amounts appropriated, $1,302,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for activities associated with
carrying out investigations and audits re-
lated to satellite procurement, acquisition
and construction.
PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY
For necessary expenses associated with the
restoration of Pacific salmon populations,
$65,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That, of the funds
provided herein, the Secretary of Commerce
may issue grants to the States of Wash-
ington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California,
and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized
tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific
Coast (including Alaska), for projects nec-
essary for conservation of salmon and
steelhead populations that are listed as
threatened or endangered, or that are identi-
fied by a State as at-risk to be so listed, for
maintaining populations necessary for exer-
cise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native
subsistence fishing, or for conservation of
Pacific coastal salmon and steelhead habi-
tat, based on guidelines to be developed by
the Secretary of Commerce: Provided further,
That all funds shall be allocated based on
scientific and other merit principles and
shall not be available for marketing activi-
ties: Provided further, That funds disbursed to
States shall be subject to a matching re-
quirement of funds or documented in-kind
contributions of at least 33 percent of the
Federal funds.
FISHERMEN’S CONTINGENCY FUND
For carrying out the provisions of title IV
of Public Law 95–372, not to exceed $349,000,
to be derived from receipts collected pursu-
ant to that Act, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For the necessary expenses associated with
the mitigation of fishery disasters, $15,000,000
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That funds shall be used for mitigating the
effects of commercial fishery failures and
fishery resource disasters as declared by the
Secretary of Commerce.
FISHERIES FINANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
Subject to section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2019,
obligations of direct loans may not exceed
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans
and not to exceed $100,000,000 for traditional
direct loans as authorized by the Merchant
Marine Act of 1936.
DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the manage-
ment of the Department of Commerce pro-
vided for by law, including not to exceed
$4,500 for official reception and representa-
tion, $63,000,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.), $34,744,000: Provided, That not-
withstanding section 6413(b) of the Middle
Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012
(Public Law 112–96), $2,000,000, to remain
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1041
January 23, 2019
available until expended, from the amounts
provided under this heading, shall be derived
from the Public Safety Trust Fund for ac-
tivities associated with carrying out inves-
tigations and audits related to the First Re-
sponder Network Authority (FirstNet).
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 101. During the current fiscal year, ap-
plicable appropriations and funds made
available to the Department of Commerce by
this Act shall be available for the activities
specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15
U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner
prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding
31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced pay-
ments not otherwise authorized only upon
the certification of officials designated by
the Secretary of Commerce that such pay-
ments are in the public interest.
SEC. 102. During the current fiscal year, ap-
propriations made available to the Depart-
ment of Commerce by this Act for salaries
and expenses shall be available for hire of
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31
U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–
5902).
SEC. 103. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Commerce
in this Act may be transferred between such
appropriations, but no such appropriation
shall be increased by more than 10 percent
by any such transfers: Provided, That any
transfer pursuant to this section shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Commerce shall notify the Com-
mittees on Appropriations at least 15 days in
advance of the acquisition or disposal of any
capital asset (including land, structures, and
equipment) not specifically provided for in
this Act or any other law appropriating
funds for the Department of Commerce.
SEC. 104. The requirements set forth by sec-
tion 105 of the Commerce, Justice, Science,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2012 (Public Law 112–55), as amended by sec-
tion 105 of title I of division B of Public Law
113–6, are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable with respect to fiscal year
2019: Provided, That the life cycle cost for the
Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000
and the life cycle cost for the Geostationary
Operational Environmental Satellite R-Se-
ries Program is $10,828,059,000.
SEC. 105. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary may furnish serv-
ices (including but not limited to utilities,
telecommunications, and security services)
necessary to support the operation, mainte-
nance, and improvement of space that per-
sons, firms, or organizations are authorized,
pursuant to the Public Buildings Cooperative
Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or
occupy in the Herbert C. Hoover Building,
Washington, DC, or other buildings, the
maintenance, operation, and protection of
which has been delegated to the Secretary
from the Administrator of General Services
pursuant to the Federal Property and Ad-
ministrative Services Act of 1949 on a reim-
bursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts
received as reimbursement for services pro-
vided under this section or the authority
under which the use or occupancy of the
space is authorized, up to $200,000, shall be
credited to the appropriation or fund which
initially bears the costs of such services.
SEC. 106. Nothing in this title shall be con-
strued to prevent a grant recipient from de-
terring child pornography, copyright in-
fringement, or any other unlawful activity
over its networks.
SEC. 107. The Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion is authorized to use, with their consent,
with reimbursement and subject to the lim-
its of available appropriations, the land,
services, equipment, personnel, and facilities
of any department, agency, or instrumen-
tality of the United States, or of any State,
local government, Indian tribal government,
Territory, or possession, or of any political
subdivision thereof, or of any foreign govern-
ment or international organization, for pur-
poses related to carrying out the responsibil-
ities of any statute administered by the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
SEC. 108. The National Technical Informa-
tion Service shall not charge any customer
for a copy of any report or document gen-
erated by the Legislative Branch unless the
Service has provided information to the cus-
tomer on how an electronic copy of such re-
port or document may be accessed and
downloaded for free online. Should a cus-
tomer still require the Service to provide a
printed or digital copy of the report or docu-
ment, the charge shall be limited to recov-
ering the Service’s cost of processing, repro-
ducing, and delivering such report or docu-
ment.
SEC. 109. To carry out the responsibilities
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration (NOAA), the Administrator of
NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into grants
and cooperative agreements with; (2) use on
a non-reimbursable basis land, services,
equipment, personnel, and facilities provided
by; and (3) receive and expend funds made
available on a consensual basis from: a Fed-
eral agency, State or subdivision thereof,
local government, tribal government, terri-
tory, or possession or any subdivisions there-
of: Provided, That funds received for permit-
ting and related regulatory activities pursu-
ant to this section shall be deposited under
the heading ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration—Operations, Re-
search, and Facilities’’ and shall remain
available until September 30, 2021, for such
purposes: Provided further, That all funds
within this section and their corresponding
uses are subject to section 505 of this Act.
SEC. 110. Amounts provided by this Act or
by any prior appropriations Act that remain
available for obligation, for necessary ex-
penses of the programs of the Economics and
Statistics Administration of the Department
of Commerce, including amounts provided
for programs of the Bureau of Economic
Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, shall
be available for expenses of cooperative
agreements with appropriate entities, in-
cluding any Federal, State, or local govern-
mental unit, or institution of higher edu-
cation, to aid and promote statistical, re-
search, and methodology activities which
further the purposes for which such amounts
have been made available.
SEC. 111. Section 110(a) of the Department
of Commerce Appropriations Act, 2016 (Pub-
lic Law 114–113) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘management is’’ and in-
serting ‘‘management is: (1)’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘subsection (b).’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘subsection (b); or (2) for law enforce-
ment activities conducted by States under a
joint enforcement agreement pursuant to
section 311(h) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fish-
ery Conservation and Management Act (16
U.S.C. 1861(h)), any other agreement with the
Secretary entered into pursuant to section
311(a) of such Act, or any similar agreement
authorized by law.’’.
SEC. 112. Title II of Division B of Public
Law 115–123 is amended by striking ‘‘Fed-
eral’’ each place it appears under the heading
‘‘Department of Commerce—National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration’’.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Commerce Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the administra-
tion of the Department of Justice,
$113,000,000, of which not to exceed $4,000,000
for security and construction of Department
of Justice facilities shall remain available
until expended.
JUSTICE INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for information
sharing technology, including planning, de-
velopment, deployment and departmental di-
rection, $32,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the Attorney Gen-
eral may transfer up to $40,000,000 to this ac-
count, from funds available to the Depart-
ment of Justice for information technology,
to remain available until expended, for en-
terprise-wide information technology initia-
tives: Provided further, That the transfer au-
thority in the preceding proviso is in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority con-
tained in this Act: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the first proviso shall
be treated as a reprogramming under section
505 of this Act and shall not be available for
obligation or expenditure except in compli-
ance with the procedures set forth in that
section.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary for the administra-
tion of immigration-related activities of the
Executive Office for Immigration Review,
$563,407,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be de-
rived by transfer from the Executive Office
for Immigration Review fees deposited in the
‘‘Immigration Examinations Fee’’ account,
and of which not less than $11,400,000 shall be
available for services and activities provided
by the Legal Orientation Program: Provided,
That not to exceed $35,000,000 of the total
amount made available under this heading
shall remain available until expended.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $101,000,000, including not to
exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies of a confidential character.
UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States Parole Commission as authorized,
$13,000,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, upon the expira-
tion of a term of office of a Commissioner,
the Commissioner may continue to act until
a successor has been appointed.
LEGAL ACTIVITIES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, GENERAL LEGAL
ACTIVITIES
For expenses necessary for the legal activi-
ties of the Department of Justice, not other-
wise provided for, including not to exceed
$20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to
be expended under the direction of, and to be
accounted for solely under the certificate of,
the Attorney General; the administration of
pardon and clemency petitions; and rent of
private or Government-owned space in the
District of Columbia, $904,000,000, of which
not to exceed $20,000,000 for litigation sup-
port contracts shall remain available until
expended: Provided, That of the amount pro-
vided for INTERPOL Washington dues pay-
ments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1042 January 23, 2019
available until expended: Provided further,
That of the total amount appropriated, not
to exceed $9,000 shall be available to
INTERPOL Washington for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding section 205 of
this Act, upon a determination by the Attor-
ney General that emergent circumstances re-
quire additional funding for litigation activi-
ties of the Civil Division, the Attorney Gen-
eral may transfer such amounts to ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses, General Legal Activities’’
from available appropriations for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as
may be necessary to respond to such cir-
cumstances: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated, such sums as may be
necessary shall be available to the Civil
Rights Division for salaries and expenses as-
sociated with the election monitoring pro-
gram under section 8 of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to reimburse
the Office of Personnel Management for such
salaries and expenses: Provided further, That
of the amounts provided under this heading
for the election monitoring program,
$3,390,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That of the amount
appropriated, not less than $193,715,000 shall
be available for the Criminal Division, in-
cluding related expenses for the Mutual
Legal Assistance Treaty Program.
In addition, for reimbursement of expenses
of the Department of Justice associated with
processing cases under the National Child-
hood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to ex-
ceed $10,000,000, to be appropriated from the
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, ANTITRUST DIVISION
For expenses necessary for the enforce-
ment of antitrust and kindred laws,
$164,977,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, fees collected for
premerger notification filings under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the
year of collection (and estimated to be
$136,000,000 in fiscal year 2019), shall be re-
tained and used for necessary expenses in
this appropriation, and shall remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
the sum herein appropriated from the gen-
eral fund shall be reduced as such offsetting
collections are received during fiscal year
2019, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019
appropriation from the general fund esti-
mated at $28,977,000.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, UNITED STATES
ATTORNEYS
For necessary expenses of the Offices of the
United States Attorneys, including inter-
governmental and cooperative agreements,
$2,212,000,000: Provided, That of the total
amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,200
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses: Provided further,
That not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That each United States Attorney shall es-
tablish or participate in a task force on
human trafficking.
UNITED STATES TRUSTEE SYSTEM FUND
For necessary expenses of the United
States Trustee Program, as authorized,
$226,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, deposits to the United
States Trustee System Fund and amounts
herein appropriated shall be available in
such amounts as may be necessary to pay re-
funds due depositors: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
fees deposited into the Fund pursuant to sec-
tion 589a(b) of title 28, United States Code
(as limited by section 1004(b) of the Bank-
ruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017 (division B of
Public Law 115–72)), shall be retained and
used for necessary expenses in this appro-
priation and shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That to the extent
that fees deposited into the Fund in fiscal
year 2019, net of amounts necessary to pay
refunds due depositors, exceed $226,000,000,
those excess amounts shall be available in
future fiscal years only to the extent pro-
vided in advance in appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced (1) as such fees are received during fis-
cal year 2019, net of amounts necessary to
pay refunds due depositors, (estimated at
$360,000,000) and (2) to the extent that any re-
maining general fund appropriations can be
derived from amounts deposited in the Fund
in previous fiscal years that are not other-
wise appropriated, so as to result in a final
fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at $0.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, FOREIGN CLAIMS
SETTLEMENT COMMISSION
For expenses necessary to carry out the ac-
tivities of the Foreign Claims Settlement
Commission, including services as author-
ized by section 3109 of title 5, United States
Code, $2,409,000.
FEES AND EXPENSES OF WITNESSES
For fees and expenses of witnesses, for ex-
penses of contracts for the procurement and
supervision of expert witnesses, for private
counsel expenses, including advances, and for
expenses of foreign counsel, $270,000,000, to
remain available until expended, of which
not to exceed $16,000,000 is for construction of
buildings for protected witness safesites; not
to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and
maintenance of armored and other vehicles
for witness security caravans; and not to ex-
ceed $18,000,000 is for the purchase, installa-
tion, maintenance, and upgrade of secure
telecommunications equipment and a secure
automated information network to store and
retrieve the identities and locations of pro-
tected witnesses: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading may not
be transferred pursuant to section 205 of this
Act.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, COMMUNITY
RELATIONS SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Community
Relations Service, $15,500,000: Provided, That
notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon
a determination by the Attorney General
that emergent circumstances require addi-
tional funding for conflict resolution and vi-
olence prevention activities of the Commu-
nity Relations Service, the Attorney General
may transfer such amounts to the Commu-
nity Relations Service, from available appro-
priations for the current fiscal year for the
Department of Justice, as may be necessary
to respond to such circumstances: Provided
further, That any transfer pursuant to the
preceding proviso shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section.
ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND
For expenses authorized by subparagraphs
(B), (F), and (G) of section 524(c)(1) of title 28,
United States Code, $20,514,000, to be derived
from the Department of Justice Assets For-
feiture Fund.
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States Marshals Service, $1,358,000,000, of
which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available
for official reception and representation ex-
penses, and not to exceed $25,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended.
CONSTRUCTION
For construction in space controlled, occu-
pied or utilized by the United States Mar-
shals Service for prisoner holding and re-
lated support, $15,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
FEDERAL PRISONER DETENTION
For necessary expenses related to United
States prisoners in the custody of the United
States Marshals Service as authorized by
section 4013 of title 18, United States Code,
$1,552,397,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed
$20,000,000 shall be considered ‘‘funds appro-
priated for State and local law enforcement
assistance’’ pursuant to section 4013(b) of
title 18, United States Code: Provided further,
That the United States Marshals Service
shall be responsible for managing the Justice
Prisoner and Alien Transportation System.
NATIONAL SECURITY DIVISION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out the ac-
tivities of the National Security Division,
$101,369,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000
for information technology systems shall re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act,
upon a determination by the Attorney Gen-
eral that emergent circumstances require
additional funding for the activities of the
National Security Division, the Attorney
General may transfer such amounts to this
heading from available appropriations for
the current fiscal year for the Department of
Justice, as may be necessary to respond to
such circumstances: Provided further, That
any transfer pursuant to the preceding pro-
viso shall be treated as a reprogramming
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
INTERAGENCY LAW ENFORCEMENT
INTERAGENCY CRIME AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses for the identifica-
tion, investigation, and prosecution of indi-
viduals associated with the most significant
drug trafficking organizations, transnational
organized crime, and money laundering orga-
nizations not otherwise provided for, to in-
clude inter-governmental agreements with
State and local law enforcement agencies en-
gaged in the investigation and prosecution of
individuals involved in transnational orga-
nized crime and drug trafficking, $560,000,000,
of which $50,000,000 shall remain available
until expended: Provided, That any amounts
obligated from appropriations under this
heading may be used under authorities avail-
able to the organizations reimbursed from
this appropriation.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation for detection, inves-
tigation, and prosecution of crimes against
the United States, $9,192,137,000, of which not
to exceed $216,900,000 shall remain available
until expended: Provided, That not to exceed
$184,500 shall be available for official recep-
tion and representation expenses: Provided
further, That in addition to other funds pro-
vided for Construction projects, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation may use up to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1043
January 23, 2019
$150,000,000 appropriated in prior years under
this heading for all costs related to construc-
tion, renovation, and modification of feder-
ally owned and leased space and expansion of
network capabilities.
CONSTRUCTION
For necessary expenses, to include the cost
of equipment, furniture, and information
technology requirements, related to con-
struction or acquisition of buildings, facili-
ties and sites by purchase, or as otherwise
authorized by law; conversion, modification
and extension of federally owned buildings;
preliminary planning and design of projects;
and operation and maintenance of secure
work environment facilities and secure net-
working capabilities; $385,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Drug En-
forcement Administration, including not to
exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies of a confidential character pursuant
to section 530C of title 28, United States
Code; and expenses for conducting drug edu-
cation and training programs, including
travel and related expenses for participants
in such programs and the distribution of
items of token value that promote the goals
of such programs, $2,267,000,000, of which not
to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available
until expended and not to exceed $90,000 shall
be available for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided, That the
Drug Enforcement Administration may use
up to $5,700,000 appropriated in prior year
funds under this heading for necessary ex-
penses of construction.
BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, FIREARMS AND
EXPLOSIVES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives,
for training of State and local law enforce-
ment agencies with or without reimburse-
ment, including training in connection with
the training and acquisition of canines for
explosives and fire accelerants detection;
and for provision of laboratory assistance to
State and local law enforcement agencies,
with or without reimbursement,
$1,316,678,000, of which not to exceed $36,000
shall be for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, not to exceed $1,000,000 shall
be available for the payment of attorneys’
fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title
18, United States Code, and not to exceed
$20,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That none of the funds ap-
propriated herein shall be available to inves-
tigate or act upon applications for relief
from Federal firearms disabilities under sec-
tion 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:
Provided further, That such funds shall be
available to investigate and act upon appli-
cations filed by corporations for relief from
Federal firearms disabilities under section
925(c) of title 18, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That no funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
transfer the functions, missions, or activities
of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives to other agencies or Depart-
ments.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Federal Pris-
on System for the administration, operation,
and maintenance of Federal penal and cor-
rectional institutions, and for the provision
of technical assistance and advice on correc-
tions related issues to foreign governments,
$7,250,000,000: Provided, That the Attorney
General may transfer to the Department of
Health and Human Services such amounts as
may be necessary for direct expenditures by
that Department for medical relief for in-
mates of Federal penal and correctional in-
stitutions: Provided further, That the Direc-
tor of the Federal Prison System, where nec-
essary, may enter into contracts with a fis-
cal agent or fiscal intermediary claims proc-
essor to determine the amounts payable to
persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison
System, furnish health services to individ-
uals committed to the custody of the Federal
Prison System: Provided further, That not to
exceed $5,400 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000
shall remain available for necessary oper-
ations until September 30, 2020: Provided fur-
ther, That, of the amounts provided for con-
tract confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000
shall remain available until expended to
make payments in advance for grants, con-
tracts and reimbursable agreements, and
other expenses: Provided further, That the Di-
rector of the Federal Prison System may ac-
cept donated property and services relating
to the operation of the prison card program
from a not-for-profit entity which has oper-
ated such program in the past, notwith-
standing the fact that such not-for-profit en-
tity furnishes services under contracts to the
Federal Prison System relating to the oper-
ation of pre-release services, halfway houses,
or other custodial facilities.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For planning, acquisition of sites, and con-
struction of new facilities; purchase and ac-
quisition of facilities and remodeling, and
equipping of such facilities for penal and cor-
rectional use, including all necessary ex-
penses incident thereto, by contract or force
account; and constructing, remodeling, and
equipping necessary buildings and facilities
at existing penal and correctional institu-
tions, including all necessary expenses inci-
dent thereto, by contract or force account,
$264,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $175,000,000 shall be avail-
able only for costs related to construction of
new facilities: Provided, That labor of United
States prisoners may be used for work per-
formed under this appropriation.
FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
The Federal Prison Industries, Incor-
porated, is hereby authorized to make such
expenditures within the limits of funds and
borrowing authority available, and in accord
with the law, and to make such contracts
and commitments without regard to fiscal
year limitations as provided by section 9104
of title 31, United States Code, as may be
necessary in carrying out the program set
forth in the budget for the current fiscal
year for such corporation.
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES,
FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the
Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated,
shall be available for its administrative ex-
penses, and for services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, to be
computed on an accrual basis to be deter-
mined in accordance with the corporation’s
current prescribed accounting system, and
such amounts shall be exclusive of deprecia-
tion, payment of claims, and expenditures
which such accounting system requires to be
capitalized or charged to cost of commod-
ities acquired or produced, including selling
and shipping expenses, and expenses in con-
nection with acquisition, construction, oper-
ation, maintenance, improvement, protec-
tion, or disposition of facilities and other
property belonging to the corporation or in
which it has an interest.
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
ACTIVITIES
OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PREVENTION AND
PROSECUTION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance for the preven-
tion and prosecution of violence against
women, as authorized by the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the Vio-
lent Crime Control and Law Enforcement
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322) (‘‘the 1994
Act’’); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the 1990 Act’’); the
Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to
end the Exploitation of Children Today Act
of 2003 (Public Law 108–21); the Juvenile Jus-
tice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974
(34 U.S.C. 11101 et seq.) (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the
Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protec-
tion Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–386) (‘‘the
2000 Act’’); the Violence Against Women and
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
the Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013
Act’’); and the Rape Survivor Child Custody
Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–22) (‘‘the 2015
Act’’); and for related victims services,
$497,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, which shall be derived by transfer
from amounts available for obligation in this
Act from the Fund established by section
1402 of chapter XIV of title II of Public Law
98–473 (34 U.S.C. 20101), notwithstanding sec-
tion 1402(d) of such Act of 1984, and merged
with the amounts otherwise made available
under this heading: Provided, That except as
otherwise provided by law, not to exceed 5
percent of funds made available under this
heading may be used for expenses related to
evaluation, training, and technical assist-
ance: Provided further, That of the amount
provided—
(1) $215,000,000 is for grants to combat vio-
lence against women, as authorized by part
T of the 1968 Act;
(2) $36,000,000 is for transitional housing as-
sistance grants for victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual as-
sault as authorized by section 40299 of the
1994 Act;
(3) $3,000,000 is for the National Institute of
Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics
for research, evaluation, and statistics of vi-
olence against women and related issues ad-
dressed by grant programs of the Office on
Violence Against Women, which shall be
transferred to ‘‘Research, Evaluation and
Statistics’’ for administration by the Office
of Justice Programs;
(4) $11,000,000 is for a grant program to pro-
vide services to advocate for and respond to
youth victims of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking; assist-
ance to children and youth exposed to such
violence; programs to engage men and youth
in preventing such violence; and assistance
to middle and high school students through
education and other services related to such
violence: Provided, That unobligated bal-
ances available for the programs authorized
by sections 41201, 41204, 41303, and 41305 of the
1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013
Act, shall be available for this program: Pro-
vided further, That 10 percent of the total
amount available for this grant program
shall be available for grants under the pro-
gram authorized by section 2015 of the 1968
Act: Provided further, That the definitions
and grant conditions in section 40002 of the
1994 Act shall apply to this program;
(5) $53,000,000 is for grants to encourage ar-
rest policies as authorized by part U of the
1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 is for a homicide
reduction initiative;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1044 January 23, 2019
(6) $37,500,000 is for sexual assault victims
assistance, as authorized by section 41601 of
the 1994 Act;
(7) $42,000,000 is for rural domestic violence
and child abuse enforcement assistance
grants, as authorized by section 40295 of the
1994 Act;
(8) $20,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent
crimes against women on campus, as author-
ized by section 304 of the 2005 Act;
(9) $45,000,000 is for legal assistance for vic-
tims, as authorized by section 1201 of the 2000
Act;
(10) $5,000,000 is for enhanced training and
services to end violence against and abuse of
women in later life, as authorized by section
40802 of the 1994 Act;
(11) $16,000,000 is for grants to support fami-
lies in the justice system, as authorized by
section 1301 of the 2000 Act: Provided, That
unobligated balances available for the pro-
grams authorized by section 1301 of the 2000
Act and section 41002 of the 1994 Act, prior to
their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be
available for this program;
(12) $6,000,000 is for education and training
to end violence against and abuse of women
with disabilities, as authorized by section
1402 of the 2000 Act;
(13) $1,000,000 is for the National Resource
Center on Workplace Responses to assist vic-
tims of domestic violence, as authorized by
section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
(14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research
on violence against Indian women, including
as authorized by section 904 of the 2005 Act:
Provided, That such funds may be transferred
to ‘‘Research, Evaluation and Statistics’’ for
administration by the Office of Justice Pro-
grams;
(15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse
that provides training and technical assist-
ance on issues relating to sexual assault of
American Indian and Alaska Native women;
(16) $4,000,000 is for grants to assist tribal
governments in exercising special domestic
violence criminal jurisdiction, as authorized
by section 904 of the 2013 Act: Provided, That
the grant conditions in section 40002(b) of the
1994 Act shall apply to this program; and
(17) $1,500,000 is for the purposes authorized
under the 2015 Act.
OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS
RESEARCH, EVALUATION AND STATISTICS
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Preven-
tion Act of 1974 (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the Missing
Children’s Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et
seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other
Tools to end the Exploitation of Children
Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–21); the
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–
405); the Violence Against Women and De-
partment of Justice Reauthorization Act of
2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Pub-
lic Law 101–647); the Second Chance Act of
2007 (Public Law 110–199); the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–473); the
Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act
of 2006 (Public Law 109–248) (‘‘the Adam
Walsh Act’’); the PROTECT Our Children
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–401); subtitle D of
title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–296) (‘‘the 2002 Act’’); the
NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007
(Public Law 110–180); the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public
Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013 Act’’); and other pro-
grams, $80,000,000, to remain available until
expended, of which—
(1) $43,000,000 is for criminal justice statis-
tics programs, and other activities, as au-
thorized by part C of title I of the 1968 Act,
of which $5,000,000 is for a nationwide inci-
dent-based crime statistics program; and
(2) $37,000,000 is for research, development,
and evaluation programs, and other activi-
ties as authorized by part B of title I of the
1968 Act and subtitle D of title II of the 2002
Act, of which $4,000,000 is for research tar-
geted toward developing a better under-
standing of the domestic radicalization phe-
nomenon, and advancing evidence-based
strategies for effective intervention and pre-
vention; $1,000,000 is for research to study the
root causes of school violence to include the
impact and effectiveness of grants made
under the STOP School Violence Act;
$1,000,000 is for a study to better protect chil-
dren against online predatory behavior as
part of the National Juvenile Online Victim-
ization Studies (N–JOVS); and $3,000,000 is
for a national center for restorative justice.
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
ASSISTANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforce-
ment Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322) (‘‘the
1994 Act’’); the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–
405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the 1990 Act’’); the
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–164); the Vio-
lence Against Women and Department of
Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public
Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’); the Adam
Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–248) (‘‘the Adam Walsh
Act’’); the Victims of Trafficking and Vio-
lence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–
386); the NICS Improvement Amendments
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–180); subtitle D of
title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–296) (‘‘the 2002 Act’’); the
Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–
199); the Prioritizing Resources and Organi-
zation for Intellectual Property Act of 2008
(Public Law 110–403); the Victims of Crime
Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–473); the Mentally
Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction
Reauthorization and Improvement Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–416); the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013
(Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013 Act’’); the Com-
prehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of
2016 (Public Law 114–198) (‘‘CARA’’); the Jus-
tice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Pub-
lic Law 114–324); Kevin and Avonte’s Law (di-
vision Q of Public Law 115–141) (‘‘Kevin and
Avonte’s Law’’); the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act of 2018 (title III of division S of Pub-
lic Law 115–141) (‘‘the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act’’); the STOP School Violence Act of
2018 (title V of division S of Public Law 115–
141) (‘‘the STOP School Violence Act’’); the
Fix NICS Act of 2018 (title VI of division S of
Public Law 115–141); the Project Safe Neigh-
borhoods Grant Program Authorization Act
of 2018 (Public Law 115–185); and the SUP-
PORT for Patients and Communities Act
(Public Law 115–271); and other programs,
$1,723,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended as follows—
(1) $423,500,000 for the Edward Byrne Memo-
rial Justice Assistance Grant program as au-
thorized by subpart 1 of part E of title I of
the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and
the special rules for Puerto Rico under sec-
tion 505(g) of title I of the 1968 Act shall not
apply for purposes of this Act), of which, not-
withstanding such subpart 1, $12,000,000 is for
the Officer Robert Wilson III Memorial Ini-
tiative on Preventing Violence Against Law
Enforcement Officer Resilience and Surviv-
ability (VALOR), $7,500,000 is for an initia-
tive to support evidence-based policing,
$8,000,000 is for an initiative to enhance pros-
ecutorial decision-making, $2,400,000 is for
the operationalization, maintenance and ex-
pansion of the National Missing and Uniden-
tified Persons System, $2,500,000 is for an
academic based training initiative to im-
prove police-based responses to people with
mental illness or developmental disabilities,
$2,000,000 is for a student loan repayment as-
sistance program pursuant to section 952 of
Public Law 110–315, $15,500,000 is for prison
rape prevention and prosecution grants to
States and units of local government, and
other programs, as authorized by the Prison
Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law
108–79), $2,000,000 is for a grant program au-
thorized by Kevin and Avonte’s Law,
$3,000,000 is for a regional law enforcement
technology initiative, $20,000,000 is for pro-
grams to reduce gun crime and gang vio-
lence, as authorized by Public Law 115–185,
$5,000,000 is for the Capital Litigation Im-
provement Grant Program, as authorized by
section 426 of Public Law 108–405, and for
grants for wrongful conviction review,
$2,000,000 is for emergency law enforcement
assistance for events occurring during or
after fiscal year 2019, as authorized by sec-
tion 609M of the Justice Assistance Act of
1984 (34 U.S.C. 50101), $2,000,000 is for grants
to States and units of local government to
deploy managed access systems to combat
contraband cell phone use in prison,
$2,000,000 is for a program to improve juve-
nile indigent defense, and $8,000,000 is for
community-based violence prevention initia-
tives;
(2) $243,500,000 for the State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program, as authorized by sec-
tion 241(i)(5) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)): Provided, That
no jurisdiction shall request compensation
for any cost greater than the actual cost for
Federal immigration and other detainees
housed in State and local detention facili-
ties;
(3) $85,000,000 for victim services programs
for victims of trafficking, as authorized by
section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 106–386, for
programs authorized under Public Law 109–
164, or programs authorized under Public
Law 113–4;
(4) $14,000,000 for economic, high tech-
nology, white collar, and Internet crime pre-
vention grants, including as authorized by
section 401 of Public Law 110–403, of which
$2,500,000 is for competitive grants that help
State and local law enforcement tackle in-
tellectual property thefts, and $2,000,000 for a
competitive grant program for training stu-
dents in computer forensics and digital in-
vestigation;
(5) $20,000,000 for sex offender management
assistance, as authorized by the Adam Walsh
Act, and related activities;
(6) $25,000,000 for the matching grant pro-
gram for law enforcement armor vests, as
authorized by section 2501 of title I of the
1968 Act: Provided, That $1,500,000 is trans-
ferred directly to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology’s Office of Law
Enforcement Standards for research, testing
and evaluation programs;
(7) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender
Public Website;
(8) $75,000,000 for grants to States to up-
grade criminal and mental health records for
the National Instant Criminal Background
Check System, of which no less than
$25,000,000 shall be for grants made under the
authorities of the NICS Improvement
Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–180)
and Fix NICS Act of 2018;
(9) $30,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic
Sciences Improvement Grants under part BB
of title I of the 1968 Act;
(10) $130,000,000 for DNA-related and foren-
sic programs and activities, of which—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1045
January 23, 2019
(A) $120,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and
capacity enhancement program and for other
local, State, and Federal forensic activities,
including the purposes authorized under sec-
tion 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimi-
nation Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–546) (the
Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program):
Provided, That up to 4 percent of funds made
available under this paragraph may be used
for the purposes described in the DNA Train-
ing and Education for Law Enforcement,
Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers
program (Public Law 108–405, section 303);
(B) $6,000,000 is for the purposes described
in the Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction
DNA Testing Grant Program (Public Law
108–405, section 412); and
(C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic
Exam Program grants, including as author-
ized by section 304 of Public Law 108–405;
(11) $48,000,000 for a grant program for com-
munity-based sexual assault response re-
form;
(12) $12,000,000 for the court-appointed spe-
cial advocate program, as authorized by sec-
tion 217 of the 1990 Act;
(13) $37,500,000 for assistance to Indian
tribes;
(14) $87,500,000 for offender reentry pro-
grams and research, as authorized by the
Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–
199), without regard to the time limitations
specified at section 6(1) of such Act, of which
not to exceed $6,000,000 is for a program to
improve State, local, and tribal probation or
parole supervision efforts and strategies,
$5,000,000 is for Children of Incarcerated Par-
ents Demonstrations to enhance and main-
tain parental and family relationships for in-
carcerated parents as a reentry or recidivism
reduction strategy, and $4,000,000 is for addi-
tional replication sites employing the
Project HOPE Opportunity Probation with
Enforcement model implementing swift and
certain sanctions in probation, and for a re-
search project on the effectiveness of the
model: Provided, That up to $7,500,000 of
funds made available in this paragraph may
be used for performance-based awards for
Pay for Success projects, of which up to
$5,000,000 shall be for Pay for Success pro-
grams implementing the Permanent Sup-
portive Housing Model;
(15) $66,500,000 for initiatives to improve
police-community relations, of which
$22,500,000 is for a competitive matching
grant program for purchases of body-worn
cameras for State, local and Tribal law en-
forcement, $27,000,000 is for a justice rein-
vestment initiative, for activities related to
criminal justice reform and recidivism re-
duction, and $17,000,000 is for an Edward
Byrne Memorial criminal justice innovation
program;
(16) $347,000,000 for comprehensive opioid
abuse reduction activities, including as au-
thorized by CARA, and for the following pro-
grams, which shall address opioid abuse re-
duction consistent with underlying program
authorities—
(A) $77,000,000 for Drug Courts, as author-
ized by section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the
1968 Act;
(B) $31,000,000 for mental health courts and
adult and juvenile collaboration program
grants, as authorized by parts V and HH of
title I of the 1968 Act, and the Mentally Ill
Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction
Reauthorization and Improvement Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–416);
(C) $30,000,000 for grants for Residential
Substance Abuse Treatment for State Pris-
oners, as authorized by part S of title I of the
1968 Act;
(D) $22,000,000 for a veterans treatment
courts program;
(E) $30,000,000 for a program to monitor
prescription drugs and scheduled listed
chemical products; and
(F) $157,000,000 for a comprehensive opioid
abuse program;
(17) $2,500,000 for a competitive grant pro-
gram authorized by the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act; and
(18) $75,000,000 for grants to be adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance for
purposes authorized under the STOP School
Violence Act:
Provided, That, if a unit of local government
uses any of the funds made available under
this heading to increase the number of law
enforcement officers, the unit of local gov-
ernment will achieve a net gain in the num-
ber of law enforcement officers who perform
non-administrative public sector safety serv-
ice.
JUVENILE JUSTICE PROGRAMS
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Pre-
vention Act of 1974 (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the Om-
nibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the Violence Against
Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the
2005 Act’’); the Missing Children’s Assistance
Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et seq.); the Prosecu-
torial Remedies and Other Tools to end the
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003
(Public Law 108–21); the Victims of Child
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the
1990 Act’’); the Adam Walsh Child Protection
and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–248)
(‘‘the Adam Walsh Act’’); the PROTECT Our
Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–401); the
Violence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013
Act’’); the Justice for All Reauthorization
Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-324); and other ju-
venile justice programs, $287,000,000, to re-
main available until expended as follows—
(1) $60,000,000 for programs authorized by
section 221 of the 1974 Act, and for training
and technical assistance to assist small, non-
profit organizations with the Federal grants
process: Provided, That of the amounts pro-
vided under this paragraph, $500,000 shall be
for a competitive demonstration grant pro-
gram to support emergency planning among
State, local and tribal juvenile justice resi-
dential facilities;
(2) $95,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
(3) $24,500,000 for delinquency prevention,
as authorized by section 505 of the 1974 Act,
of which, pursuant to sections 261 and 262
thereof—
(A) $5,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth
Program;
(B) $500,000 shall be for an Internet site
providing information and resources on chil-
dren of incarcerated parents;
(C) $2,000,000 shall be for competitive
grants focusing on girls in the juvenile jus-
tice system;
(D) $9,000,000 shall be for an opioid-affected
youth initiative; and
(E) $8,000,000 shall be for an initiative re-
lating to children exposed to violence;
(4) $22,500,000 for programs authorized by
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990;
(5) $82,000,000 for missing and exploited
children programs, including as authorized
by sections 404(b) and 405(a) of the 1974 Act
(except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the PRO-
TECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law
110–401) shall not apply for purposes of this
Act); and
(6) $3,000,000 for child abuse training pro-
grams for judicial personnel and practi-
tioners, as authorized by section 222 of the
1990 Act:
Provided, That not more than 10 percent of
each amount may be used for research, eval-
uation, and statistics activities designed to
benefit the programs or activities author-
ized: Provided further, That not more than 2
percent of the amounts designated under
paragraphs (1) through (3) and (6) may be
used for training and technical assistance:
Provided further, That the two preceding pro-
visos shall not apply to grants and projects
administered pursuant to sections 261 and 262
of the 1974 Act and to missing and exploited
children programs.
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER BENEFITS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payments and expenses authorized
under section 1001(a)(4) of title I of the Omni-
bus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968, such sums as are necessary (including
amounts for administrative costs), to remain
available until expended; and $24,800,000 for
payments authorized by section 1201(b) of
such Act and for educational assistance au-
thorized by section 1218 of such Act, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act,
upon a determination by the Attorney Gen-
eral that emergent circumstances require
additional funding for such disability and
education payments, the Attorney General
may transfer such amounts to ‘‘Public Safe-
ty Officer Benefits’’ from available appro-
priations for the Department of Justice as
may be necessary to respond to such cir-
cumstances: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section.
COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES
COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities authorized by the Violent
Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of
1994 (Public Law 103–322); the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the
1968 Act’’); the Violence Against Women and
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
and the SUPPORT for Patients and Commu-
nities Act (Public Law 115–271), $303,500,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That any balances made available through
prior year deobligations shall only be avail-
able in accordance with section 505 of this
Act: Provided further, That of the amount
provided under this heading—
(1) $228,500,000 is for grants under section
1701 of title I of the 1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10381)
for the hiring and rehiring of additional ca-
reer law enforcement officers under part Q of
such title notwithstanding subsection (i) of
such section: Provided, That, notwith-
standing section 1704(c) of such title (34
U.S.C. 10384(c)), funding for hiring or rehir-
ing a career law enforcement officer may not
exceed $125,000 unless the Director of the Of-
fice of Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices grants a waiver from this limitation:
Provided further, That within the amounts
appropriated under this paragraph,
$27,000,000 is for improving tribal law en-
forcement, including hiring, equipment,
training, anti-methamphetamine activities,
and anti-opioid activities: Provided further,
That of the amounts appropriated under this
paragraph, $6,500,000 is for community polic-
ing development activities in furtherance of
the purposes in section 1701: Provided further,
That of the amounts appropriated under this
paragraph $37,000,000 is for regional informa-
tion sharing activities, as authorized by part
M of title I of the 1968 Act, which shall be
transferred to and merged with ‘‘Research,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1046 January 23, 2019
Evaluation, and Statistics’’ for administra-
tion by the Office of Justice Programs: Pro-
vided further, That within the amounts ap-
propriated under this paragraph, no less than
$3,000,000 is to support the Tribal Access Pro-
gram: Provided further, That within the
amounts appropriated under this paragraph,
$2,000,000 is for training, peer mentoring, and
mental health program activities as author-
ized under the Law Enforcement Mental
Health and Wellness Act (Public Law 115–
113);
(2) $10,000,000 is for activities authorized by
the POLICE Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–199);
(3) $8,000,000 is for competitive grants to
State law enforcement agencies in States
with high seizures of precursor chemicals,
finished methamphetamine, laboratories,
and laboratory dump seizures: Provided, That
funds appropriated under this paragraph
shall be utilized for investigative purposes to
locate or investigate illicit activities, in-
cluding precursor diversion, laboratories, or
methamphetamine traffickers;
(4) $32,000,000 is for competitive grants to
statewide law enforcement agencies in
States with high rates of primary treatment
admissions for heroin and other opioids: Pro-
vided, That these funds shall be utilized for
investigative purposes to locate or inves-
tigate illicit activities, including activities
related to the distribution of heroin or un-
lawful distribution of prescription opioids, or
unlawful heroin and prescription opioid traf-
fickers through statewide collaboration; and
(5) $25,000,000 is for competitive grants to
be administered by the Community Oriented
Policing Services Office for purposes author-
ized under the STOP School Violence Act
(title V of division S of Public Law 115–141).
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 201. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available in this title for official recep-
tion and representation expenses, a total of
not to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated
to the Department of Justice in this title
shall be available to the Attorney General
for official reception and representation ex-
penses.
SEC. 202. None of the funds appropriated by
this title shall be available to pay for an
abortion, except where the life of the mother
would be endangered if the fetus were carried
to term, or in the case of rape or incest: Pro-
vided, That should this prohibition be de-
clared unconstitutional by a court of com-
petent jurisdiction, this section shall be null
and void.
SEC. 203. None of the funds appropriated
under this title shall be used to require any
person to perform, or facilitate in any way
the performance of, any abortion.
SEC. 204. Nothing in the preceding section
shall remove the obligation of the Director
of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort
services necessary for a female inmate to re-
ceive such service outside the Federal facil-
ity: Provided, That nothing in this section in
any way diminishes the effect of section 203
intended to address the philosophical beliefs
of individual employees of the Bureau of
Prisons.
SEC. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Justice in
this Act may be transferred between such ap-
propriations, but no such appropriation, ex-
cept as otherwise specifically provided, shall
be increased by more than 10 percent by any
such transfers: Provided, That any transfer
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
SEC. 206. None of the funds made available
under this title may be used by the Federal
Bureau of Prisons or the United States Mar-
shals Service for the purpose of transporting
an individual who is a prisoner pursuant to
conviction for crime under State or Federal
law and is classified as a maximum or high
security prisoner, other than to a prison or
other facility certified by the Federal Bu-
reau of Prisons as appropriately secure for
housing such a prisoner.
SEC. 207. (a) None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used by Federal prisons
to purchase cable television services, or to
rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic
media or equipment used primarily for rec-
reational purposes.
(b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the
rental, maintenance, or purchase of audio-
visual or electronic media or equipment for
inmate training, religious, or educational
programs.
SEC. 208. None of the funds made available
under this title shall be obligated or ex-
pended for any new or enhanced information
technology program having total estimated
development costs in excess of $100,000,000,
unless the Deputy Attorney General and the
investment review board certify to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate that the in-
formation technology program has appro-
priate program management controls and
contractor oversight mechanisms in place,
and that the program is compatible with the
enterprise architecture of the Department of
Justice.
SEC. 209. The notification thresholds and
procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act
shall apply to deviations from the amounts
designated for specific activities in this Act
and in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act), and to any use of
deobligated balances of funds provided under
this title in previous years.
SEC. 210. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to plan for, begin, con-
tinue, finish, process, or approve a public-
private competition under the Office of Man-
agement and Budget Circular A–76 or any
successor administrative regulation, direc-
tive, or policy for work performed by em-
ployees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Fed-
eral Prison Industries, Incorporated.
SEC. 211. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no funds shall be available for
the salary, benefits, or expenses of any
United States Attorney assigned dual or ad-
ditional responsibilities by the Attorney
General or his designee that exempt that
United States Attorney from the residency
requirements of section 545 of title 28, United
States Code.
SEC. 212. At the discretion of the Attorney
General, and in addition to any amounts
that otherwise may be available (or author-
ized to be made available) by law, with re-
spect to funds appropriated by this title
under the headings ‘‘Research, Evaluation
and Statistics’’, ‘‘State and Local Law En-
forcement Assistance’’, and ‘‘Juvenile Jus-
tice Programs’’—
(1) up to 3 percent of funds made available
to the Office of Justice Programs for grant
or reimbursement programs may be used by
such Office to provide training and technical
assistance; and
(2) up to 2.5 percent of funds made avail-
able for grant or reimbursement programs
under such headings, except for amounts ap-
propriated specifically for research, evalua-
tion, or statistical programs administered by
the National Institute of Justice and the Bu-
reau of Justice Statistics, shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with funds provided to
the National Institute of Justice and the Bu-
reau of Justice Statistics, to be used by
them for research, evaluation, or statistical
purposes, without regard to the authoriza-
tions for such grant or reimbursement pro-
grams.
SEC. 213. Upon request by a grantee for
whom the Attorney General has determined
there is a fiscal hardship, the Attorney Gen-
eral may, with respect to funds appropriated
in this or any other Act making appropria-
tions for fiscal years 2016 through 2019 for the
following programs, waive the following re-
quirements:
(1) For the adult and juvenile offender
State and local reentry demonstration
projects under part FF of title I of the Omni-
bus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10631 et seq.), the require-
ments under section 2976(g)(1) of such part
(34 U.S.C. 10631(g)(1)).
(2) For State, Tribal, and local reentry
courts under part FF of title I of such Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10631 et seq.), the require-
ments under section 2978(e)(1) and (2) of such
part (34 U.S.C. 10633(e)(1) and (2)).
(3) For the prosecution drug treatment al-
ternatives to prison program under part CC
of title I of such Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10581),
the requirements under the second sentence
of section 2901(f) of such part (34 U.S.C.
10581(f)).
SEC. 214. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, section 20109(a) of subtitle A of
title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law
Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12109(a))
shall not apply to amounts made available
by this or any other Act.
SEC. 215. None of the funds made available
under this Act, other than for the national
instant criminal background check system
established under section 103 of the Brady
Handgun Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C.
40901), may be used by a Federal law enforce-
ment officer to facilitate the transfer of an
operable firearm to an individual if the Fed-
eral law enforcement officer knows or sus-
pects that the individual is an agent of a
drug cartel, unless law enforcement per-
sonnel of the United States continuously
monitor or control the firearm at all times.
SEC. 216. (a) None of the income retained in
the Department of Justice Working Capital
Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102–
140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be
available for obligation during fiscal year
2019, except up to $12,000,000 may be obli-
gated for implementation of a unified De-
partment of Justice financial management
system.
(b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobli-
gated balances transferred to the capital ac-
count of the Department of Justice Working
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public
Law 102–140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note)
shall be available for obligation in fiscal
year 2019, and any use, obligation, transfer or
allocation of such funds shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act.
(c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess
unobligated balances available under section
524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code,
shall be available for obligation during fiscal
year 2019, and any use, obligation, transfer or
allocation of such funds shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act.
SEC. 217. Discretionary funds that are made
available in this Act for the Office of Justice
Programs may be used to participate in Per-
formance Partnership Pilots authorized
under section 526 of division H of Public Law
113–76, section 524 of division G of Public Law
113–235, section 525 of division H of Public
Law 114–113, and such authorities as are en-
acted for Performance Partnership Pilots in
an appropriations Act for fiscal years 2018
and 2019.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Justice Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1047
January 23, 2019
TITLE III
SCIENCE
OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy, in carrying
out the purposes of the National Science and
Technology Policy, Organization, and Prior-
ities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), hire
of passenger motor vehicles, and services as
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code, not to exceed $2,250 for official
reception and representation expenses, and
rental of conference rooms in the District of
Columbia, $5,544,000.
NATIONAL SPACE COUNCIL
For necessary expenses of the National
Space Council, in carrying out the purposes
of Title V of Public Law 100–685 and Execu-
tive Order 13803, hire of passenger motor ve-
hicles, and services as authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to ex-
ceed $2,250 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $1,965,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the National Space Council may accept
personnel support from Federal agencies, de-
partments, and offices, and such Federal
agencies, departments, and offices may de-
tail staff without reimbursement to the Na-
tional Space Council for purposes provided
herein.
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION
SCIENCE
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
science research and development activities,
including research, development, operations,
support, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; space
flight, spacecraft control, and communica-
tions activities; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$6,905,700,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That, of the
amounts provided, $545,000,000 is for an or-
biter and $195,000,000 is for a lander to meet
the science goals for the Jupiter Europa mis-
sion as recommended in previous Planetary
Science Decadal surveys: Provided further,
That the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration shall use the Space Launch
System as the launch vehicles for the Jupi-
ter Europa missions, plan for an orbiter
launch no later than 2023 and a lander launch
no later than 2025, and include in the fiscal
year 2020 budget the 5-year funding profile
necessary to achieve these goals.
AERONAUTICS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of aero-
nautics research and development activities,
including research, development, operations,
support, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; space
flight, spacecraft control, and communica-
tions activities; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$725,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
space technology research and development
activities, including research, development,
operations, support, and services; mainte-
nance and repair, facility planning and de-
sign; space flight, spacecraft control, and
communications activities; program man-
agement; personnel and related costs, includ-
ing uniforms or allowances therefor, as au-
thorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5,
United States Code; travel expenses; pur-
chase and hire of passenger motor vehicles;
and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance,
and operation of mission and administrative
aircraft, $926,900,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That
$180,000,000 shall be for RESTORE–L.
EXPLORATION
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of ex-
ploration research and development activi-
ties, including research, development, oper-
ations, support, and services; maintenance
and repair, facility planning and design;
space flight, spacecraft control, and commu-
nications activities; program management;
personnel and related costs, including uni-
forms or allowances therefor, as authorized
by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United
States Code; travel expenses; purchase and
hire of passenger motor vehicles; and pur-
chase, lease, charter, maintenance, and oper-
ation of mission and administrative aircraft,
$5,050,800,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That not less than
$1,350,000,000 shall be for the Orion Multi-
Purpose Crew Vehicle: Provided further, That
not less than $2,150,000,000 shall be for the
Space Launch System (SLS) launch vehicle,
which shall have a lift capability not less
than 130 metric tons and which shall have
core elements and an Exploration Upper
Stage developed simultaneously: Provided
further, That of the amounts provided for
SLS, not less than $150,000,000 shall be for
Exploration Upper Stage development: Pro-
vided further, That $592,800,000 shall be for
Exploration Ground Systems, including
$48,000,000 for a second mobile launch plat-
form and associated SLS activities: Provided
further, That the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA) shall provide
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate,
concurrent with the annual budget submis-
sion, a 5-year budget profile for an inte-
grated system that includes the Space
Launch System, the Orion Multi-Purpose
Crew Vehicle, and associated ground systems
that will ensure an Exploration Mission-2
crewed launch as early as possible, as well as
a system-based funding profile for a sus-
tained launch cadence beyond the initial
crewed test launch: Provided further, That
$958,000,000 shall be for exploration research
and development.
SPACE OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
space operations research and development
activities, including research, development,
operations, support and services; space
flight, spacecraft control and communica-
tions activities, including operations, pro-
duction, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; program
management; personnel and related costs, in-
cluding uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5,
United States Code; travel expenses; pur-
chase and hire of passenger motor vehicles;
and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance
and operation of mission and administrative
aircraft, $4,639,100,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020.
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND
MATHEMATICS ENGAGEMENT
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of aero-
space and aeronautical education research
and development activities, including re-
search, development, operations, support,
and services; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$110,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which $21,000,000 shall be
for the Established Program to Stimulate
Competitive Research and $44,000,000 shall be
for the National Space Grant College and
Fellowship Program.
SAFETY, SECURITY AND MISSION SERVICES
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
science, aeronautics, space technology, ex-
ploration, space operations and education re-
search and development activities, including
research, development, operations, support,
and services; maintenance and repair, facil-
ity planning and design; space flight, space-
craft control, and communications activi-
ties; program management; personnel and re-
lated costs, including uniforms or allowances
therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and
5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel ex-
penses; purchase and hire of passenger motor
vehicles; not to exceed $63,000 for official re-
ception and representation expenses; and
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and
operation of mission and administrative air-
craft, $2,755,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
CONSTRUCTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPLIANCE AND RESTORATION
For necessary expenses for construction of
facilities including repair, rehabilitation, re-
vitalization, and modification of facilities,
construction of new facilities and additions
to existing facilities, facility planning and
design, and restoration, and acquisition or
condemnation of real property, as authorized
by law, and environmental compliance and
restoration, $348,200,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2024: Provided, That pro-
ceeds from leases deposited into this account
shall be available for a period of 5 years to
the extent and in amounts as provided in an-
nual appropriations Acts: Provided further,
That such proceeds referred to in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be available for obliga-
tion for fiscal year 2019 in an amount not to
exceed $17,000,000: Provided further, That each
annual budget request shall include an an-
nual estimate of gross receipts and collec-
tions and proposed use of all funds collected
pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United
States Code.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the Inspec-
tor General Act of 1978, $39,300,000, of which
$500,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Funds for any announced prize otherwise
authorized shall remain available, without
fiscal year limitation, until a prize is
claimed or the offer is withdrawn.
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropria-
tion made available for the current fiscal
year for the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration in this Act may be trans-
ferred between such appropriations, but no
such appropriation, except as otherwise spe-
cifically provided, shall be increased by more
than 10 percent by any such transfers. Bal-
ances so transferred shall be merged with
and available for the same purposes and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1048 January 23, 2019
same time period as the appropriations to
which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to
this provision shall be treated as a re-
programming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
The spending plan required by this Act
shall be provided by NASA at the theme,
program, project and activity level. The
spending plan, as well as any subsequent
change of an amount established in that
spending plan that meets the notification re-
quirements of section 505 of this Act, shall be
treated as a reprogramming under section
505 of this Act and shall not be available for
obligation or expenditure except in compli-
ance with the procedures set forth in that
section.
The unexpired balances of the ‘‘Education’’
account, for activities for which funds are
provided in this Act, may be transferred to
the ‘‘Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics Engagement’’ account estab-
lished in this Act. Balances so transferred
shall be merged with the funds in the newly
established account, but shall be available
under the same terms, conditions and period
of time as previously appropriated.
Not more than 50 percent of the amounts
made available in this Act for the Lunar Or-
bital Platform; Advanced Cislunar and Sur-
face Capabilities; Commercial LEO Develop-
ment; and Lunar Discovery and Exploration,
excluding the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter,
may be obligated until the Administrator
submits a multi-year plan to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate that identifies esti-
mated dates, by fiscal year, for Space
Launch System flights to build the Lunar
Orbital Platform; the commencement of
partnerships with commercial entities for
additional LEO missions to land humans and
rovers on the Moon; and conducting addi-
tional scientific activities on the Moon. The
multi-year plan shall include key milestones
to be met by fiscal year to achieve goals for
each of the lunar programs described in the
previous sentence and funding required by
fiscal year to achieve such milestones.
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
For necessary expenses in carrying out the
National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42
U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86–209 (42
U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code;
maintenance and operation of aircraft and
purchase of flight services for research sup-
port; acquisition of aircraft; and authorized
travel; $6,520,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, of which not to ex-
ceed $544,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for polar research and operations
support, and for reimbursement to other
Federal agencies for operational and science
support and logistical and other related ac-
tivities for the United States Antarctic pro-
gram: Provided, That receipts for scientific
support services and materials furnished by
the National Research Centers and other Na-
tional Science Foundation supported re-
search facilities may be credited to this ap-
propriation.
MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
CONSTRUCTION
For necessary expenses for the acquisition,
construction, commissioning, and upgrading
of major research equipment, facilities, and
other such capital assets pursuant to the Na-
tional Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42
U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized
travel, $295,740,000, to remain available until
expended.
EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES
For necessary expenses in carrying out
science, mathematics and engineering edu-
cation and human resources programs and
activities pursuant to the National Science
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et
seq.), including services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, au-
thorized travel, and rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia,
$910,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
AGENCY OPERATIONS AND AWARD MANAGEMENT
For agency operations and award manage-
ment necessary in carrying out the National
Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C.
1861 et seq.); services authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of
passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allow-
ances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901
and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; rental
of conference rooms in the District of Co-
lumbia; and reimbursement of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for security
guard services; $329,540,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $8,280 is for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That contracts may be entered into
under this heading in fiscal year 2019 for
maintenance and operation of facilities and
for other services to be provided during the
next fiscal year.
OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD
For necessary expenses (including payment
of salaries, authorized travel, hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles, the rental of con-
ference rooms in the District of Columbia,
and the employment of experts and consult-
ants under section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code) involved in carrying out section
4 of the National Science Foundation Act of
1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86–209 (42
U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), $4,370,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General as authorized by the Inspec-
tor General Act of 1978, $15,350,000, of which
$400,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropria-
tion made available for the current fiscal
year for the National Science Foundation in
this Act may be transferred between such ap-
propriations, but no such appropriation shall
be increased by more than 10 percent by any
such transfers. Any transfer pursuant to this
paragraph shall be treated as a reprogram-
ming of funds under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
The Director of the National Science Foun-
dation (NSF) shall notify the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate at least 30 days in ad-
vance of any planned divestment through
transfer, decommissioning, termination, or
deconstruction of any NSF-owned facilities
or any NSF capital assets (including land,
structures, and equipment) valued greater
than $2,500,000.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Science Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE IV
RELATED AGENCIES
COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Commission
on Civil Rights, including hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $10,065,000: Provided, That
none of the funds appropriated in this para-
graph may be used to employ any individuals
under Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of
title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations ex-
clusive of one special assistant for each Com-
missioner: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be
used to reimburse Commissioners for more
than 75 billable days, with the exception of
the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable
days: Provided further, That none of the funds
appropriated in this paragraph shall be used
for any activity or expense that is not ex-
plicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil
Rights Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C.
1975a).
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission as au-
thorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employ-
ment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 1963,
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic In-
formation Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of
2008 (Public Law 110–233), the ADA Amend-
ments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–325), and
the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009
(Public Law 111–2), including services as au-
thorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code; hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title
31, United States Code; nonmonetary awards
to private citizens; and up to $29,500,000 for
payments to State and local enforcement
agencies for authorized services to the Com-
mission, $379,500,000: Provided, That the Com-
mission is authorized to make available for
official reception and representation ex-
penses not to exceed $2,250 from available
funds: Provided further, That the Commission
may take no action to implement any work-
force repositioning, restructuring, or reorga-
nization until such time as the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate have been notified of
such proposals, in accordance with the re-
programming requirements of section 505 of
this Act: Provided further, That the Chair is
authorized to accept and use any gift or do-
nation to carry out the work of the Commis-
sion.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Inter-
national Trade Commission, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles and services as
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code, and not to exceed $2,250 for offi-
cial reception and representation expenses,
$95,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For payment to the Legal Services Cor-
poration to carry out the purposes of the
Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974,
$415,000,000, of which $380,500,000 is for basic
field programs and required independent au-
dits; $5,100,000 is for the Office of Inspector
General, of which such amounts as may be
necessary may be used to conduct additional
audits of recipients; $19,400,000 is for manage-
ment and grants oversight; $4,000,000 is for
client self-help and information technology;
$4,500,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund;
and $1,500,000 is for loan repayment assist-
ance: Provided, That the Legal Services Cor-
poration may continue to provide locality
pay to officers and employees at a rate no
greater than that provided by the Federal
Government to Washington, DC-based em-
ployees as authorized by section 5304 of title
5, United States Code, notwithstanding sec-
tion 1005(d) of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 2996d(d)): Provided further,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1049
January 23, 2019
That the authorities provided in section 205
of this Act shall be applicable to the Legal
Services Corporation: Provided further, That,
for the purposes of section 505 of this Act,
the Legal Services Corporation shall be con-
sidered an agency of the United States Gov-
ernment.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
None of the funds appropriated in this Act
to the Legal Services Corporation shall be
expended for any purpose prohibited or lim-
ited by, or contrary to any of the provisions
of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of
Public Law 105–119, and all funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be subject to the same terms
and conditions set forth in such sections, ex-
cept that all references in sections 502 and
503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer
instead to 2018 and 2019, respectively.
MARINE MAMMAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Marine
Mammal Commission as authorized by title
II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,516,000.
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE
REPRESENTATIVE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
United States Trade Representative, includ-
ing the hire of passenger motor vehicles and
the employment of experts and consultants
as authorized by section 3109 of title 5,
United States Code, $53,000,000, of which
$1,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the total amount
made available under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $124,000 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
TRADE ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities of the United States Trade
Representative authorized by section 611 of
the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforce-
ment Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including
transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived from the
Trade Enforcement Trust Fund: Provided,
That any transfer pursuant to subsection
(d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act.
STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the State Jus-
tice Institute, as authorized by the State
Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701
et seq.) $5,971,000, of which $500,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses: Provided further, That, for
the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the
State Justice Institute shall be considered
an agency of the United States Government.
TITLE V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 501. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be used for publicity
or propaganda purposes not authorized by
the Congress.
SEC. 502. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 503. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through procurement contract, pursuant
to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code,
shall be limited to those contracts where
such expenditures are a matter of public
record and available for public inspection,
except where otherwise provided under exist-
ing law, or under existing Executive order
issued pursuant to existing law.
SEC. 504. If any provision of this Act or the
application of such provision to any person
or circumstances shall be held invalid, the
remainder of the Act and the application of
each provision to persons or circumstances
other than those as to which it is held in-
valid shall not be affected thereby.
SEC. 505. None of the funds provided under
this Act, or provided under previous appro-
priations Acts to the agencies funded by this
Act that remain available for obligation or
expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury of the
United States derived by the collection of
fees available to the agencies funded by this
Act, shall be available for obligation or ex-
penditure through a reprogramming of funds
that: (1) creates or initiates a new program,
project or activity; (2) eliminates a program,
project or activity; (3) increases funds or per-
sonnel by any means for any project or ac-
tivity for which funds have been denied or
restricted; (4) relocates an office or employ-
ees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, pro-
grams or activities; (6) contracts out or
privatizes any functions or activities pres-
ently performed by Federal employees; (7)
augments existing programs, projects or ac-
tivities in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent,
whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent
funding for any program, project or activity,
or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or (8)
results from any general savings, including
savings from a reduction in personnel, which
would result in a change in existing pro-
grams, projects or activities as approved by
Congress; unless the House and Senate Com-
mittees on Appropriations are notified 15
days in advance of such reprogramming of
funds.
SEC. 506. (a) If it has been finally deter-
mined by a court or Federal agency that any
person intentionally affixed a label bearing a
‘‘Made in America’’ inscription, or any in-
scription with the same meaning, to any
product sold in or shipped to the United
States that is not made in the United States,
the person shall be ineligible to receive any
contract or subcontract made with funds
made available in this Act, pursuant to the
debarment, suspension, and ineligibility pro-
cedures described in sections 9.400 through
9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)(1) To the extent practicable, with re-
spect to authorized purchases of promotional
items, funds made available by this Act shall
be used to purchase items that are manufac-
tured, produced, or assembled in the United
States, its territories or possessions.
(2) The term ‘‘promotional items’’ has the
meaning given the term in OMB Circular A–
87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
SEC. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce
and Justice, the National Science Founda-
tion, and the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration shall provide to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a quar-
terly report on the status of balances of ap-
propriations at the account level. For unob-
ligated, uncommitted balances and unobli-
gated, committed balances the quarterly re-
ports shall separately identify the amounts
attributable to each source year of appro-
priation from which the balances were de-
rived. For balances that are obligated, but
unexpended, the quarterly reports shall sepa-
rately identify amounts by the year of obli-
gation.
(b) The report described in subsection (a)
shall be submitted within 30 days of the end
of each quarter.
(c) If a department or agency is unable to
fulfill any aspect of a reporting requirement
described in subsection (a) due to a limita-
tion of a current accounting system, the de-
partment or agency shall fulfill such aspect
to the maximum extent practicable under
such accounting system and shall identify
and describe in each quarterly report the ex-
tent to which such aspect is not fulfilled.
SEC. 508. Any costs incurred by a depart-
ment or agency funded under this Act result-
ing from, or to prevent, personnel actions
taken in response to funding reductions in-
cluded in this Act shall be absorbed within
the total budgetary resources available to
such department or agency: Provided, That
the authority to transfer funds between ap-
propriations accounts as may be necessary
to carry out this section is provided in addi-
tion to authorities included elsewhere in this
Act: Provided further, That use of funds to
carry out this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion or expenditure except in compliance
with the procedures set forth in that section:
Provided further, That for the Department of
Commerce, this section shall also apply to
actions taken for the care and protection of
loan collateral or grant property.
SEC. 509. None of the funds provided by this
Act shall be available to promote the sale or
export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to
seek the reduction or removal by any foreign
country of restrictions on the marketing of
tobacco or tobacco products, except for re-
strictions which are not applied equally to
all tobacco or tobacco products of the same
type.
SEC. 510. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, amounts deposited or available
in the Fund established by section 1402 of
chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98–473
(34 U.S.C. 20101) in any fiscal year in excess
of $3,353,000,000 shall not be available for ob-
ligation until the following fiscal year: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding section 1402(d)
of such Act, of the amounts available from
the Fund for obligation: (1) $10,000,000 shall
remain available until expended to the De-
partment of Justice Office of Inspector Gen-
eral for oversight and auditing purposes; and
(2) 5 percent shall be available to the Office
for Victims of Crime for grants, consistent
with the requirements of the Victims of
Crime Act, to Indian tribes to improve serv-
ices for victims of crime.
SEC. 511. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Justice in this Act
may be used to discriminate against or deni-
grate the religious or moral beliefs of stu-
dents who participate in programs for which
financial assistance is provided from those
funds, or of the parents or legal guardians of
such students.
SEC. 512. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 513. (a) The Inspectors General of the
Department of Commerce, the Department
of Justice, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Science
Foundation, and the Legal Services Corpora-
tion shall conduct audits, pursuant to the In-
spector General Act (5 U.S.C. App.), of grants
or contracts for which funds are appro-
priated by this Act, and shall submit reports
to Congress on the progress of such audits,
which may include preliminary findings and
a description of areas of particular interest,
within 180 days after initiating such an audit
and every 180 days thereafter until any such
audit is completed.
(b) Within 60 days after the date on which
an audit described in subsection (a) by an In-
spector General is completed, the Secretary,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1050 January 23, 2019
Attorney General, Administrator, Director,
or President, as appropriate, shall make the
results of the audit available to the public on
the Internet website maintained by the De-
partment, Administration, Foundation, or
Corporation, respectively. The results shall
be made available in redacted form to ex-
clude—
(1) any matter described in section 552(b) of
title 5, United States Code; and
(2) sensitive personal information for any
individual, the public access to which could
be used to commit identity theft or for other
inappropriate or unlawful purposes.
(c) Any person awarded a grant or contract
funded by amounts appropriated by this Act
shall submit a statement to the Secretary of
Commerce, the Attorney General, the Ad-
ministrator, Director, or President, as appro-
priate, certifying that no funds derived from
the grant or contract will be made available
through a subcontract or in any other man-
ner to another person who has a financial in-
terest in the person awarded the grant or
contract.
(d) The provisions of the preceding sub-
sections of this section shall take effect 30
days after the date on which the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, in
consultation with the Director of the Office
of Government Ethics, determines that a
uniform set of rules and requirements, sub-
stantially similar to the requirements in
such subsections, consistently apply under
the executive branch ethics program to all
Federal departments, agencies, and entities.
SEC. 514. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available under this Act
may be used by the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, or the National
Science Foundation to acquire a high-impact
or moderate-impact information system, as
defined for security categorization in the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology’s (NIST) Federal Information Proc-
essing Standard Publication 199, ‘‘Standards
for Security Categorization of Federal Infor-
mation and Information Systems’’ unless the
agency has—
(1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the
information systems against criteria devel-
oped by NIST and the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation (FBI) to inform acquisition deci-
sions for high-impact and moderate-impact
information systems within the Federal Gov-
ernment;
(2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the
presumptive awardee against available and
relevant threat information provided by the
FBI and other appropriate agencies; and
(3) in consultation with the FBI or other
appropriate Federal entity, conducted an as-
sessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or
sabotage associated with the acquisition of
such system, including any risk associated
with such system being produced, manufac-
tured, or assembled by one or more entities
identified by the United States Government
as posing a cyber threat, including but not
limited to, those that may be owned, di-
rected, or subsidized by the People’s Repub-
lic of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or
the Russian Federation.
(b) None of the funds appropriated or oth-
erwise made available under this Act may be
used to acquire a high-impact or moderate-
impact information system reviewed and as-
sessed under subsection (a) unless the head
of the assessing entity described in sub-
section (a) has—
(1) developed, in consultation with NIST,
the FBI, and supply chain risk management
experts, a mitigation strategy for any identi-
fied risks;
(2) determined, in consultation with NIST
and the FBI, that the acquisition of such sys-
tem is in the national interest of the United
States; and
(3) reported that determination to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate and the
agency Inspector General.
SEC. 515. None of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used in any way whatso-
ever to support or justify the use of torture
by any official or contract employee of the
United States Government.
SEC. 516. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law or treaty, none of the funds
appropriated or otherwise made available
under this Act or any other Act may be ex-
pended or obligated by a department, agen-
cy, or instrumentality of the United States
to pay administrative expenses or to com-
pensate an officer or employee of the United
States in connection with requiring an ex-
port license for the export to Canada of com-
ponents, parts, accessories or attachments
for firearms listed in Category I, section
121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations
(International Trafficking in Arms Regula-
tions (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April
1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500
wholesale in any transaction, provided that
the conditions of subsection (b) of this sec-
tion are met by the exporting party for such
articles.
(b) The foregoing exemption from obtain-
ing an export license—
(1) does not exempt an exporter from filing
any Shipper’s Export Declaration or notifi-
cation letter required by law, or from being
otherwise eligible under the laws of the
United States to possess, ship, transport, or
export the articles enumerated in subsection
(a); and
(2) does not permit the export without a li-
cense of—
(A) fully automatic firearms and compo-
nents and parts for such firearms, other than
for end use by the Federal Government, or a
Provincial or Municipal Government of Can-
ada;
(B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or
complete breech mechanisms for any firearm
listed in Category I, other than for end use
by the Federal Government, or a Provincial
or Municipal Government of Canada; or
(C) articles for export from Canada to an-
other foreign destination.
(c) In accordance with this section, the
District Directors of Customs and post-
masters shall permit the permanent or tem-
porary export without a license of any un-
classified articles specified in subsection (a)
to Canada for end use in Canada or return to
the United States, or temporary import of
Canadian-origin items from Canada for end
use in the United States or return to Canada
for a Canadian citizen.
(d) The President may require export li-
censes under this section on a temporary
basis if the President determines, upon pub-
lication first in the Federal Register, that
the Government of Canada has implemented
or maintained inadequate import controls
for the articles specified in subsection (a),
such that a significant diversion of such arti-
cles has and continues to take place for use
in international terrorism or in the esca-
lation of a conflict in another nation. The
President shall terminate the requirements
of a license when reasons for the temporary
requirements have ceased.
SEC. 517. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no department, agency, or in-
strumentality of the United States receiving
appropriated funds under this Act or any
other Act shall obligate or expend in any
way such funds to pay administrative ex-
penses or the compensation of any officer or
employee of the United States to deny any
application submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C.
2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 27 CFR
section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to import
United States origin ‘‘curios or relics’’ fire-
arms, parts, or ammunition.
SEC. 518. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to include in any
new bilateral or multilateral trade agree-
ment the text of—
(1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United
States–Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
(2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United
States–Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
(3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United
States–Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
SEC. 519. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to authorize or issue
a national security letter in contravention of
any of the following laws authorizing the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue na-
tional security letters: The Right to Finan-
cial Privacy Act of 1978; The Electronic Com-
munications Privacy Act of 1986; The Fair
Credit Reporting Act; The National Security
Act of 1947; USA PATRIOT Act; USA FREE-
DOM Act of 2015; and the laws amended by
these Acts.
SEC. 520. If at any time during any quarter,
the program manager of a project within the
jurisdiction of the Departments of Com-
merce or Justice, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, or the National
Science Foundation totaling more than
$75,000,000 has reasonable cause to believe
that the total program cost has increased by
10 percent or more, the program manager
shall immediately inform the respective Sec-
retary, Administrator, or Director. The Sec-
retary, Administrator, or Director shall no-
tify the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations within 30 days in writing of
such increase, and shall include in such no-
tice: the date on which such determination
was made; a statement of the reasons for
such increases; the action taken and pro-
posed to be taken to control future cost
growth of the project; changes made in the
performance or schedule milestones and the
degree to which such changes have contrib-
uted to the increase in total program costs
or procurement costs; new estimates of the
total project or procurement costs; and a
statement validating that the project’s man-
agement structure is adequate to control
total project or procurement costs.
SEC. 521. Funds appropriated by this Act,
or made available by the transfer of funds in
this Act, for intelligence or intelligence re-
lated activities are deemed to be specifically
authorized by the Congress for purposes of
section 504 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal year 2019
until the enactment of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 522. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used to enter into a contract in an amount
greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in
excess of such amount unless the prospective
contractor or grantee certifies in writing to
the agency awarding the contract or grant
that, to the best of its knowledge and belief,
the contractor or grantee has filed all Fed-
eral tax returns required during the three
years preceding the certification, has not
been convicted of a criminal offense under
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has
not, more than 90 days prior to certification,
been notified of any unpaid Federal tax as-
sessment for which the liability remains
unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the sub-
ject of an installment agreement or offer in
compromise that has been approved by the
Internal Revenue Service and is not in de-
fault, or the assessment is the subject of a
non-frivolous administrative or judicial pro-
ceeding.
(RESCISSIONS)
SEC. 523. (a) Of the unobligated balances
from prior year appropriations available to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1051
January 23, 2019
the Department of Commerce, the following
funds are hereby rescinded, not later than
September 30, 2019, from the following ac-
counts in the specified amounts—
(1) ‘‘Economic Development Administra-
tion, Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’, $10,000,000; and
(2) ‘‘National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Industrial Technology Serv-
ices’’, $2,000,000.
(b) Of the unobligated balances available
to the Department of Justice, the following
funds are hereby rescinded, not later than
September 30, 2019, from the following ac-
counts in the specified amounts—
(1) ‘‘Working Capital Fund’’, $151,000,000;
(2) ‘‘Federal Bureau of Investigation, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’, $124,326,000 including
from, but not limited to, fees collected to de-
fray expenses for the automation of finger-
print identification and criminal justice in-
formation services and associated costs;
(3) ‘‘State and Local Law Enforcement Ac-
tivities, Office on Violence Against Women,
Violence Against Women Prevention and
Prosecution Programs’’, $10,000,000;
(4) ‘‘State and Local Law Enforcement Ac-
tivities, Office of Justice Programs’’,
$70,000,000;
(5) ‘‘State and Local Law Enforcement Ac-
tivities, Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices’’, $16,500,000; and
(6) ‘‘Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture
Fund’’, $674,000,000, is permanently re-
scinded.
(c) The Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice shall submit to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a report no later than Sep-
tember 1, 2019, specifying the amount of each
rescission made pursuant to subsections (a)
and (b).
(d) The amounts rescinded in subsections
(a) and (b) shall not be from amounts that
were designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency or disaster relief requirement pursu-
ant to the concurrent resolution on the
budget or the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 524. (a) Any unobligated balances
identified in the following Treasury Appro-
priation Fund Symbols are hereby perma-
nently cancelled: 80X0114; 80X0111; 80X0110;
and 80X0112.
(b) Upon enactment of this Act:
(1) obligated balances in 80X0114 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0130, Con-
struction and Environmental Compliance
and Restoration, and any upward adjust-
ments to such obligations may be made from
80–0130;
(2) obligated balances in 80X0111 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0122, Safe-
ty, Security and Mission Services, 80–0115,
Space Flight Capabilities and 80–0130, Con-
struction and Environmental Compliance
and Restoration, and any upward adjust-
ments to such obligations may be made from
80–0122, 80–0115 and 80–0130;
(3) obligated balances in 80X0110 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0130, Con-
struction and Environmental Compliance
and Restoration, and any upward adjust-
ments to said obligations may be made from
80–0130; and
(4) obligated balances in 80X0112 shall be
transferred to and merged with 80–0122, Safe-
ty, Security and Mission Services and 80–
0130, Construction and Environmental Com-
pliance and Restoration, and any upward ad-
justments to such obligations may be made
from 80–0122 and 80–0130.
(c) Following the cancellation of unobli-
gated balances and transfer of obligated bal-
ances in 80X0114, 80X0111, 80X0110 and
80X0112, such accounts shall be closed. Any
collections authorized or required to be cred-
ited to these accounts that are not received
before closing of such accounts shall be de-
posited in the Treasury as miscellaneous re-
ceipts.
SEC. 525. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to purchase first
class or premium airline travel in contraven-
tion of sections 301–10.122 through 301–10.124
of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 526. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees from a Federal department or agen-
cy, who are stationed in the United States,
at any single conference occurring outside
the United States unless such conference is a
law enforcement training or operational con-
ference for law enforcement personnel and
the majority of Federal employees in attend-
ance are law enforcement personnel sta-
tioned outside the United States.
SEC. 527. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available in this or any
other Act may be used to transfer, release,
or assist in the transfer or release to or with-
in the United States, its territories, or pos-
sessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any
other detainee who—
(1) is not a United States citizen or a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces of the United
States; and
(2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009,
at the United States Naval Station, Guanta-
namo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of De-
fense.
SEC. 528. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available in this or any
other Act may be used to construct, acquire,
or modify any facility in the United States,
its territories, or possessions to house any
individual described in subsection (c) for the
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the
custody or under the effective control of the
Department of Defense.
(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall
not apply to any modification of facilities at
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.
(c) An individual described in this sub-
section is any individual who, as of June 24,
2009, is located at United States Naval Sta-
tion, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who—
(1) is not a citizen of the United States or
a member of the Armed Forces of the United
States; and
(2) is—
(A) in the custody or under the effective
control of the Department of Defense; or
(B) otherwise under detention at United
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
SEC. 529. The Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget shall instruct any de-
partment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States receiving funds appropriated
under this Act to track undisbursed balances
in expired grant accounts and include in its
annual performance plan and performance
and accountability reports the following:
(1) Details on future action the depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality will take
to resolve undisbursed balances in expired
grant accounts.
(2) The method that the department, agen-
cy, or instrumentality uses to track
undisbursed balances in expired grant ac-
counts.
(3) Identification of undisbursed balances
in expired grant accounts that may be re-
turned to the Treasury of the United States.
(4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details
on the total number of expired grant ac-
counts with undisbursed balances (on the
first day of each fiscal year) for the depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality and the
total finances that have not been obligated
to a specific project remaining in the ac-
counts.
SEC. 530. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used for the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion (NASA), the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy (OSTP), or the National Space
Council (NSC) to develop, design, plan, pro-
mulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral
policy, program, order, or contract of any
kind to participate, collaborate, or coordi-
nate bilaterally in any way with China or
any Chinese-owned company unless such ac-
tivities are specifically authorized by a law
enacted after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used to effectuate the
hosting of official Chinese visitors at facili-
ties belonging to or utilized by NASA.
(c) The limitations described in sub-
sections (a) and (b) shall not apply to activi-
ties which NASA, OSTP, or NSC, after con-
sultation with the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, have certified—
(1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer
of technology, data, or other information
with national security or economic security
implications to China or a Chinese-owned
company; and
(2) will not involve knowing interactions
with officials who have been determined by
the United States to have direct involvement
with violations of human rights.
(d) Any certification made under sub-
section (c) shall be submitted to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, no later
than 30 days prior to the activity in question
and shall include a description of the purpose
of the activity, its agenda, its major partici-
pants, and its location and timing.
SEC. 531. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to pay the salaries
or expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to
act on, an application for the importation of
any model of shotgun if—
(1) all other requirements of law with re-
spect to the proposed importation are met;
and
(2) no application for the importation of
such model of shotgun, in the same configu-
ration, had been denied by the Attorney Gen-
eral prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis
that the shotgun was not particularly suit-
able for or readily adaptable to sporting pur-
poses.
SEC. 532. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, adjudication, or
other law enforcement- or victim assistance-
related activity.
SEC. 533. The Departments of Commerce
and Justice, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Science
Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights,
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, the International Trade Commis-
sion, the Legal Services Corporation, the
Marine Mammal Commission, the Offices of
Science and Technology Policy and the
United States Trade Representative, the Na-
tional Space Council, and the State Justice
Institute shall submit spending plans, signed
by the respective department or agency
head, to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate within 45 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 534. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be obligated or expended to
implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the
Senate approves a resolution of ratification
for the Treaty.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1052 January 23, 2019
SEC. 535. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, none of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available by this
Act may be used to pay award or incentive
fees for contractor performance that has
been judged to be below satisfactory per-
formance or for performance that does not
meet the basic requirements of a contract.
SEC. 536. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 7606 (‘‘Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp
Research’’) of the Agricultural Act of 2014
(Public Law 113–79) by the Department of
Justice or the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration.
SEC. 537. None of the funds made available
under this Act to the Department of Justice
may be used, with respect to any of the
States of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkan-
sas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Dela-
ware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indi-
ana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Min-
nesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Ne-
vada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mex-
ico, New York, North Carolina, North Da-
kota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsyl-
vania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Ten-
nessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and
Wyoming, or with respect to the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of the North-
ern Mariana Islands, Guam, or Puerto Rico,
to prevent any of them from implementing
their own laws that authorize the use, dis-
tribution, possession, or cultivation of med-
ical marijuana.
SEC. 538. The Department of Commerce,
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration, and the National Science Founda-
tion shall provide a quarterly report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate on any of-
ficial travel to China by any employee of
such Department or agency, including the
purpose of such travel.
SEC. 539. Of the amounts made available by
this Act, not less than 10 percent of each
total amount provided, respectively, for Pub-
lic Works grants authorized by the Public
Works and Economic Development Act of
1965 and grants authorized by section 27 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722) shall be allo-
cated for assistance in persistent poverty
counties: Provided, That for purposes of this
section, the term ‘‘persistent poverty coun-
ties’’ means any county that has had 20 per-
cent or more of its population living in pov-
erty over the past 30 years, as measured by
the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the
most recent Small Area Income and Poverty
Estimates.
SEC. 540. None of the funds provided in this
Act shall be available for obligation for the
James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) after
December 31, 2019, if the individual identified
under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 30104 of
title 51, United States Code, as responsible
for JWST determines that the formulation
and development costs (with development
cost as defined under section 30104 of title 51,
United States Code) are likely to exceed
$8,802,700,000, unless the program is modified
so that the costs do not exceed $8,802,700,000.
SEC. 541. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be expended during fiscal
year 2019 to prepare for the shutdown of the
Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared As-
tronomy.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION C—FINANCIAL SERVICES AND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Depart-
mental Offices including operation and
maintenance of the Treasury Building and
Freedman’s Bank Building; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and
improvements of, and purchase of commer-
cial insurance policies for, real properties
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for
the performance of official business; execu-
tive direction program activities; inter-
national affairs and economic policy activi-
ties; domestic finance and tax policy activi-
ties, including technical assistance to Puerto
Rico; and Treasury-wide management poli-
cies and programs activities, $214,576,000:
Provided, That of the amount appropriated
under this heading—
(1) not to exceed $700,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses, of
which necessary amounts shall be available
for expenses to support activities of the Fi-
nancial Action Task Force, and not to ex-
ceed $350,000 shall be for other official recep-
tion and representation expenses;
(2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen
emergencies of a confidential nature to be
allocated and expended under the direction
of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate; and
(3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2020, for—
(A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement
Audit and Internal Control Program;
(B) information technology modernization
requirements;
(C) the audit, oversight, and administra-
tion of the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust
Fund;
(D) the development and implementation
of programs within the Office of Critical In-
frastructure Protection and Compliance Pol-
icy, including entering into cooperative
agreements;
(E) operations and maintenance of facili-
ties; and
(F) international operations.
OFFICE OF TERRORISM AND FINANCIAL
INTELLIGENCE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the necessary expenses of the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to safe-
guard the financial system against illicit use
and to combat rogue nations, terrorist
facilitators, weapons of mass destruction
proliferators, money launderers, drug king-
pins, and other national security threats,
$159,000,000: Provided, That of the amounts
appropriated under this heading, up to
$10,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
CYBERSECURITY ENHANCEMENT ACCOUNT
For salaries and expenses for enhanced cy-
bersecurity for systems operated by the De-
partment of the Treasury, $25,208,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall supplement and
not supplant any other amounts made avail-
able to the Treasury offices and bureaus for
cybersecurity: Provided further, That the
Chief Information Officer of the individual
offices and bureaus shall submit a spend plan
for each investment to the Treasury Chief
Information Officer for approval: Provided
further, That the submitted spend plan shall
be reviewed and approved by the Treasury
Chief Information Officer prior to the obliga-
tion of funds under this heading: Provided
further, That of the total amount made avail-
able under this heading $1,000,000 shall be
available for administrative expenses for the
Treasury Chief Information Officer to pro-
vide oversight of the investments made
under this heading: Provided further, That
such funds shall supplement and not sup-
plant any other amounts made available to
the Treasury Chief Information Officer.
DEPARTMENT-WIDE SYSTEMS AND CAPITAL
INVESTMENTS PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For development and acquisition of auto-
matic data processing equipment, software,
and services and for repairs and renovations
to buildings owned by the Department of the
Treasury, $4,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That these
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in
amounts as necessary to satisfy the require-
ments of the Department’s offices, bureaus,
and other organizations: Provided further,
That this transfer authority shall be in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority provided
in this Act: Provided further, That none of
the funds appropriated under this heading
shall be used to support or supplement ‘‘In-
ternal Revenue Service, Operations Support’’
or ‘‘Internal Revenue Service, Business Sys-
tems Modernization’’.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$37,044,000, including hire of passenger motor
vehicles; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall
be available for unforeseen emergencies of a
confidential nature, to be allocated and ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General of the Treasury; of which up to
$2,800,000 to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be for audits and inves-
tigations conducted pursuant to section 1608
of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustain-
ability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived
Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of
2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of which not to
exceed $1,000 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
TREASURY INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR TAX
ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Treasury In-
spector General for Tax Administration in
carrying out the Inspector General Act of
1978, as amended, including purchase and
hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C.
1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, at such rates as may be determined by
the Inspector General for Tax Administra-
tion; $170,250,000, of which $5,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020; of
which not to exceed $6,000,000 shall be avail-
able for official travel expenses; of which not
to exceed $500,000 shall be available for un-
foreseen emergencies of a confidential na-
ture, to be allocated and expended under the
direction of the Inspector General for Tax
Administration; and of which not to exceed
$1,500 shall be available for official reception
and representation expenses.
SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE
TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Special Inspector General in carrying out
the provisions of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–
343), $23,000,000.
FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, including hire
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1053
January 23, 2019
of passenger motor vehicles; travel and
training expenses of non-Federal and foreign
government personnel to attend meetings
and training concerned with domestic and
foreign financial intelligence activities, law
enforcement, and financial regulation; serv-
ices authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to ex-
ceed $12,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for assistance to
Federal law enforcement agencies, with or
without reimbursement, $117,800,000, of
which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2021.
TREASURY FORFEITURE FUND
(RESCISSION)
Of the unobligated balances available
under this heading, $175,000,000 are hereby
permanently rescinded not later than Sep-
tember 30, 2019.
BUREAU OF THE FISCAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of operations of the
Bureau of the Fiscal Service, $338,280,000; of
which not to exceed $4,210,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, is for in-
formation systems modernization initia-
tives; and of which $5,000 shall be available
for official reception and representation ex-
penses.
In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to reimburse
administrative and personnel expenses for fi-
nancial management of the Fund, as author-
ized by section 1012 of Public Law 101–380.
ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE
BUREAU
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of carrying out sec-
tion 1111 of the Homeland Security Act of
2002, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles, $119,600,000; of which not to exceed $6,000
for official reception and representation ex-
penses; and of which not to exceed $50,000
shall be available for cooperative research
and development programs for laboratory
services; and provision of laboratory assist-
ance to State and local agencies with or
without reimbursement: Provided, That of
the amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000 shall be for the costs of accel-
erating the processing of formula and label
applications: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be for the costs associ-
ated with enforcement of the trade practice
provisions of the Federal Alcohol Adminis-
tration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).
UNITED STATES MINT
UNITED STATES MINT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FUND
Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United
States Code, the United States Mint is pro-
vided funding through the United States
Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs asso-
ciated with the production of circulating
coins, numismatic coins, and protective
services, including both operating expenses
and capital investments: Provided, That the
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obli-
gations incurred during fiscal year 2019
under such section 5136 for circulating coin-
age and protective service capital invest-
ments of the United States Mint shall not
exceed $30,000,000.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT
To carry out the Riegle Community Devel-
opment and Regulatory Improvement Act of
1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103–
325), including services authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for EX–3,
$250,000,000. Of the amount appropriated
under this heading—
(1) not less than $160,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard to Small and/
or Emerging Community Development Fi-
nancial Institutions Assistance awards, is
available until September 30, 2020, for finan-
cial assistance and technical assistance
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
108(a)(1), respectively, of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) and (B)), of which up
to $1,600,000 may be available for training
and outreach under section 109 of Public Law
103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4708), of which up to
$2,527,250 may be used for the cost of direct
loans, and of which up to $3,000,000, notwith-
standing subsection (d) of section 108 of Pub-
lic Law 103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4707 (d)), may be
available to provide financial assistance,
technical assistance, training, and outreach
to community development financial institu-
tions to expand investments that benefit in-
dividuals with disabilities: Provided, That
the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, in-
cluding the cost of modifying such loans,
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided fur-
ther, That these funds are available to sub-
sidize gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans not to exceed
$25,000,000;
(2) not less than $16,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for financial assistance,
technical assistance, training, and outreach
programs designed to benefit Native Amer-
ican, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native
communities and provided primarily through
qualified community development lender or-
ganizations with experience and expertise in
community development banking and lend-
ing in Indian country, Native American or-
ganizations, tribes and tribal organizations,
and other suitable providers;
(3) not less than $25,000,000 is available
until September 30, 2020, for the Bank Enter-
prise Award program;
(4) not less than $22,000,000, notwith-
standing subsections (d) and (e) of section 108
of Public Law 103–325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(d) and
(e)), is available until September 30, 2020, for
a Healthy Food Financing Initiative to pro-
vide financial assistance, technical assist-
ance, training, and outreach to community
development financial institutions for the
purpose of offering affordable financing and
technical assistance to expand the avail-
ability of healthy food options in distressed
communities;
(5) up to $27,000,000 is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, for administrative expenses,
including administration of CDFI fund pro-
grams and the New Markets Tax Credit Pro-
gram, of which not less than $1,000,000 is for
development of tools to better assess and in-
form CDFI investment performance, and up
to $300,000 is for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan program; and
(6) during fiscal year 2019, none of the
funds available under this heading are avail-
able for the cost, as defined in section 502 of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of com-
mitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under section 114A of the Riegle Community
Development and Regulatory Improvement
Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a): Provided, That
commitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under such section 114A shall not exceed
$500,000,000: Provided further, That such sec-
tion 114A shall remain in effect until Decem-
ber 31, 2019: Provided further, That of the
funds awarded under this heading, not less
than 10 percent shall be used for awards that
support investments that serve populations
living in persistent poverty counties: Pro-
vided further, That for the purposes of this
paragraph and paragraph (1) above, the term
‘‘persistent poverty counties’’ means any
county that has had 20 percent or more of its
population living in poverty over the past 30
years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 de-
cennial censuses and the 2011–2015 5-year
data series available from the American
Community Survey of the Census Bureau.
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
TAXPAYER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to provide taxpayer serv-
ices, including pre-filing assistance and edu-
cation, filing and account services, taxpayer
advocacy services, and other services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as
may be determined by the Commissioner,
$2,491,554,000, of which not less than $9,890,000
shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elder-
ly Program, of which not less than $12,000,000
shall be available for low-income taxpayer
clinic grants, of which not less than
$18,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be available for a Com-
munity Volunteer Income Tax Assistance
matching grants program for tax return
preparation assistance, and of which not less
than $207,000,000 shall be available for oper-
ating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate
Service: Provided, That of the amounts made
available for the Taxpayer Advocate Service,
not less than $5,500,000 shall be for identity
theft and refund fraud casework.
ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses for tax enforce-
ment activities of the Internal Revenue
Service to determine and collect owed taxes,
to provide legal and litigation support, to
conduct criminal investigations, to enforce
criminal statutes related to violations of in-
ternal revenue laws and other financial
crimes, to purchase and hire passenger
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to pro-
vide other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, at such rates as may be determined by
the Commissioner, $4,860,000,000, of which not
to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2020, and of which not
less than $60,257,000 shall be for the Inter-
agency Crime and Drug Enforcement pro-
gram.
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to support taxpayer serv-
ices and enforcement programs, including
rent payments; facilities services; printing;
postage; physical security; headquarters and
other IRS-wide administration activities; re-
search and statistics of income; tele-
communications; information technology de-
velopment, enhancement, operations, main-
tenance, and security; the hire of passenger
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the oper-
ations of the Internal Revenue Service Over-
sight Board; and other services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be de-
termined by the Commissioner; $3,724,000,000,
of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020; of
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain
available until expended for acquisition of
equipment and construction, repair and ren-
ovation of facilities; of which not to exceed
$1,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for research; of which not to
exceed $20,000 shall be for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided, That
not later than 30 days after the end of each
quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate and the Comptroller General
of the United States detailing the cost and
schedule performance for its major informa-
tion technology investments, including the
purpose and life-cycle stages of the invest-
ments; the reasons for any cost and schedule
variances; the risks of such investments and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1054 January 23, 2019
strategies the Internal Revenue Service is
using to mitigate such risks; and the ex-
pected developmental milestones to be
achieved and costs to be incurred in the next
quarter: Provided further, That the Internal
Revenue Service shall include, in its budget
justification for fiscal year 2020, a summary
of cost and schedule performance informa-
tion for its major information technology
systems.
BUSINESS SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service’s business systems mod-
ernization program, $150,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, for the
capital asset acquisition of information
technology systems, including management
and related contractual costs of said acquisi-
tions, including related Internal Revenue
Service labor costs, and contractual costs as-
sociated with operations authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That not later than 30
days after the end of each quarter, the Inter-
nal Revenue Service shall submit a report to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate and
the Comptroller General of the United States
detailing the cost and schedule performance
for major information technology invest-
ments, including the purposes and life-cycle
stages of the investments; the reasons for
any cost and schedule variances; the risks of
such investments and the strategies the In-
ternal Revenue Service is using to mitigate
such risks; and the expected developmental
milestones to be achieved and costs to be in-
curred in the next quarter.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 101. Not to exceed 4 percent of the ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service under the ‘‘En-
forcement’’ heading, and not to exceed 5 per-
cent of any other appropriation made avail-
able in this Act to the Internal Revenue
Service, may be transferred to any other In-
ternal Revenue Service appropriation upon
the advance approval of the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
SEC. 102. The Internal Revenue Service
shall maintain an employee training pro-
gram, which shall include the following top-
ics: taxpayers’ rights, dealing courteously
with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, eth-
ics, and the impartial application of tax law.
SEC. 103. The Internal Revenue Service
shall institute and enforce policies and pro-
cedures that will safeguard the confiden-
tiality of taxpayer information and protect
taxpayers against identity theft.
SEC. 104. Funds made available by this or
any other Act to the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice shall be available for improved facilities
and increased staffing to provide sufficient
and effective 1–800 help line service for tax-
payers. The Commissioner shall continue to
make improvements to the Internal Revenue
Service 1–800 help line service a priority and
allocate resources necessary to enhance the
response time to taxpayer communications,
particularly with regard to victims of tax-re-
lated crimes.
SEC. 105. The Internal Revenue Service
shall issue a notice of confirmation of any
address change relating to an employer mak-
ing employment tax payments, and such no-
tice shall be sent to both the employer’s
former and new address and an officer or em-
ployee of the Internal Revenue Service shall
give special consideration to an offer-in-com-
promise from a taxpayer who has been the
victim of fraud by a third party payroll tax
preparer.
SEC. 106. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used by the Internal
Revenue Service to target citizens of the
United States for exercising any right guar-
anteed under the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
SEC. 107. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Internal Rev-
enue Service to target groups for regulatory
scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
SEC. 108. None of funds made available by
this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
shall be obligated or expended on con-
ferences that do not adhere to the proce-
dures, verification processes, documentation
requirements, and policies issued by the
Chief Financial Officer, Human Capital Of-
fice, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a
result of the recommendations in the report
published on May 31, 2013, by the Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration
entitled ‘‘Review of the August 2010 Small
Business/Self-Employed Division’s Con-
ference in Anaheim, California’’ (Reference
Number 2013–10–037).
SEC. 109. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
may be obligated or expended—
(1) to make a payment to any employee
under a bonus, award, or recognition pro-
gram; or
(2) under any hiring or personnel selection
process with respect to re-hiring a former
employee, unless such program or process
takes into account the conduct and Federal
tax compliance of such employee or former
employee.
SEC. 110. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (relating to confidentiality and disclo-
sure of returns and return information).
SEC. 111. Except to the extent provided in
section 6014, 6020, or 6201(d) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, no funds in this or any
other Act shall be available to the Secretary
of the Treasury to provide to any person a
proposed final return or statement for use by
such person to satisfy a filing or reporting
requirement under such Code.
SEC. 112. In addition to the amounts other-
wise made available in this Act for the Inter-
nal Revenue Service, $77,000,000, to be avail-
able until September 30, 2020, shall be trans-
ferred by the Commissioner to the ‘‘Tax-
payer Services’’, ‘‘Enforcement’’, or ‘‘Oper-
ations Support’’ accounts of the Internal
Revenue Service for an additional amount to
be used solely for carrying out Public Law
115–97: Provided, That such funds shall not be
available until the Commissioner submits to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
spending plan for such funds.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT
OF THE TREASURY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 113. Appropriations to the Department
of the Treasury in this Act shall be available
for uniforms or allowances therefor, as au-
thorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; purchase
of insurance for official motor vehicles oper-
ated in foreign countries; purchase of motor
vehicles without regard to the general pur-
chase price limitations for vehicles pur-
chased and used overseas for the current fis-
cal year; entering into contracts with the
Department of State for the furnishing of
health and medical services to employees
and their dependents serving in foreign coun-
tries; and services authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109.
SEC. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriations in this title made available
under the headings ‘‘Departmental Offices—
Salaries and Expenses’’, ‘‘Office of Inspector
General’’, ‘‘Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program’’, ‘‘Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network’’, ‘‘Bureau of
the Fiscal Service’’, and ‘‘Alcohol and To-
bacco Tax and Trade Bureau’’ may be trans-
ferred between such appropriations upon the
advance approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer
under this section may increase or decrease
any such appropriation by more than 2 per-
cent.
SEC. 115. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service may be transferred
to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration’s appropriation upon the ad-
vance approval of the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer
may increase or decrease any such appro-
priation by more than 2 percent.
SEC. 116. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act or otherwise available to the De-
partment of the Treasury or the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing may be used to rede-
sign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
SEC. 117. The Secretary of the Treasury
may transfer funds from the ‘‘Bureau of the
Fiscal Service-Salaries and Expenses’’ to the
Debt Collection Fund as necessary to cover
the costs of debt collection: Provided, That
such amounts shall be reimbursed to such
salaries and expenses account from debt col-
lections received in the Debt Collection
Fund.
SEC. 118. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used by the United States
Mint to construct or operate any museum
without the explicit approval of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate, the House Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
SEC. 119. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act or source to the Department of the
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing, and the United States Mint, indi-
vidually or collectively, may be used to con-
solidate any or all functions of the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing and the United
States Mint without the explicit approval of
the House Committee on Financial Services;
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs; and the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
SEC. 120. Funds appropriated by this Act,
or made available by the transfer of funds in
this Act, for the Department of the Treas-
ury’s intelligence or intelligence related ac-
tivities are deemed to be specifically author-
ized by the Congress for purposes of section
504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2019 until the
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019.
SEC. 121. Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made
available from the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing’s Industrial Revolving Fund for
necessary official reception and representa-
tion expenses.
SEC. 122. The Secretary of the Treasury
shall submit a Capital Investment Plan to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
Senate and the House of Representatives not
later than 30 days following the submission
of the annual budget submitted by the Presi-
dent: Provided, That such Capital Investment
Plan shall include capital investment spend-
ing from all accounts within the Department
of the Treasury, including but not limited to
the Department-wide Systems and Capital
Investment Programs account, Treasury
Franchise Fund account, and the Treasury
Forfeiture Fund account: Provided further,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1055
January 23, 2019
That such Capital Investment Plan shall in-
clude expenditures occurring in previous fis-
cal years for each capital investment project
that has not been fully completed.
SEC. 123. Within 45 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall submit an itemized report to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate on
the amount of total funds charged to each of-
fice by the Franchise Fund including the
amount charged for each service provided by
the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed
description of the services, a detailed expla-
nation of how each charge for each service is
calculated, and a description of the role cus-
tomers have in governing in the Franchise
Fund.
SEC. 124. During fiscal year 2019—
(1) none of the funds made available in this
or any other Act may be used by the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, including the Internal
Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize
any regulation, revenue ruling, or other
guidance not limited to a particular tax-
payer relating to the standard which is used
to determine whether an organization is op-
erated exclusively for the promotion of so-
cial welfare for purposes of section 501(c)(4)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (includ-
ing the proposed regulations published at 78
Fed. Reg. 71535 (November 29, 2013)); and
(2) the standard and definitions as in effect
on January 1, 2010, which are used to make
such determinations shall apply after the
date of the enactment of this Act for pur-
poses of determining status under section
501(c)(4) of such Code of organizations cre-
ated on, before, or after such date.
SEC. 125. (a) Not later than 60 days after
the end of each quarter, the Office of Finan-
cial Stability and the Office of Financial Re-
search shall submit reports on their activi-
ties to the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate,
the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
(b) The reports required under subsection
(a) shall include—
(1) the obligations made during the pre-
vious quarter by object class, office, and ac-
tivity;
(2) the estimated obligations for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year by object class, of-
fice, and activity;
(3) the number of full-time equivalents
within each office during the previous quar-
ter;
(4) the estimated number of full-time
equivalents within each office for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year; and
(5) actions taken to achieve the goals, ob-
jectives, and performance measures of each
office.
(c) At the request of any such Committees
specified in subsection (a), the Office of Fi-
nancial Stability and the Office of Financial
Research shall make officials available to
testify on the contents of the reports re-
quired under subsection (a).
SEC. 126. Amounts made available under
the heading ‘‘Office of Terrorism and Finan-
cial Intelligence’’ shall be available to reim-
burse the ‘‘Departmental Offices—Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for expenses incurred
in such account for reception and representa-
tion expenses to support activities of the Fi-
nancial Action Task Force.
SEC. 127. Beginning in fiscal year 2019 and
for each fiscal year thereafter, amounts in
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Fund
may be used for the acquisition of necessary
land for, and construction of, a replacement
currency production facility.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of the Treasury Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE
PRESIDENT
THE WHITE HOUSE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the White
House as authorized by law, including not to
exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence ex-
penses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; hire of passenger
motor vehicles, and travel (not to exceed
$100,000 to be expended and accounted for as
provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed
$19,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, to be available for allocation
within the Executive Office of the President;
and for necessary expenses of the Office of
Policy Development, including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107,
$55,000,000.
EXECUTIVE RESIDENCE AT THE WHITE HOUSE
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Executive
Residence at the White House, $13,081,000, to
be expended and accounted for as provided by
3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112–114.
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
For the reimbursable expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence at the White House, such
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all
reimbursable operating expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, such amount for re-
imbursable operating expenses shall be the
exclusive authority of the Executive Resi-
dence to incur obligations and to receive off-
setting collections, for such expenses: Pro-
vided further, That the Executive Residence
shall require each person sponsoring a reim-
bursable political event to pay in advance an
amount equal to the estimated cost of the
event, and all such advance payments shall
be credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
the Executive Residence shall require the na-
tional committee of the political party of
the President to maintain on deposit $25,000,
to be separately accounted for and available
for expenses relating to reimbursable polit-
ical events sponsored by such committee
during such fiscal year: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall ensure
that a written notice of any amount owed for
a reimbursable operating expense under this
paragraph is submitted to the person owing
such amount within 60 days after such ex-
pense is incurred, and that such amount is
collected within 30 days after the submission
of such notice: Provided further, That the Ex-
ecutive Residence shall charge interest and
assess penalties and other charges on any
such amount that is not reimbursed within
such 30 days, in accordance with the interest
and penalty provisions applicable to an out-
standing debt on a United States Govern-
ment claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717: Provided fur-
ther, That each such amount that is reim-
bursed, and any accompanying interest and
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury
as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall prepare
and submit to the Committees on Appropria-
tions, by not later than 90 days after the end
of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a re-
port setting forth the reimbursable oper-
ating expenses of the Executive Residence
during the preceding fiscal year, including
the total amount of such expenses, the
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable official and ceremonial events, the
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable political events, and the portion of
each such amount that has been reimbursed
as of the date of the report: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall maintain
a system for the tracking of expenses related
to reimbursable events within the Executive
Residence that includes a standard for the
classification of any such expense as polit-
ical or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no
provision of this paragraph may be construed
to exempt the Executive Residence from any
other applicable requirement of subchapter I
or II of chapter 37 of title 31, United States
Code.
WHITE HOUSE REPAIR AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of the Executive Residence at the
White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d),
$750,000, to remain available until expended,
for required maintenance, resolution of safe-
ty and health issues, and continued prevent-
ative maintenance.
COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Council of
Economic Advisers in carrying out its func-
tions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15
U.S.C. 1021 et seq.), $4,187,000.
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AND HOMELAND
SECURITY COUNCIL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National Se-
curity Council and the Homeland Security
Council, including services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $12,000,000.
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
ministration, including services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire
of passenger motor vehicles, $100,000,000, of
which not to exceed $12,800,000 shall remain
available until expended for continued mod-
ernization of information resources within
the Executive Office of the President.
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Management and Budget, including hire of
passenger motor vehicles and services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the
provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, and to prepare and submit the
budget of the United States Government, in
accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31,
United States Code, $102,000,000, of which not
to exceed $3,000 shall be available for official
representation expenses: Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated in this Act for the
Office of Management and Budget may be
used for the purpose of reviewing any agri-
cultural marketing orders or any activities
or regulations under the provisions of the
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of
1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further,
That none of the funds made available for
the Office of Management and Budget by this
Act may be expended for the altering of the
transcript of actual testimony of witnesses,
except for testimony of officials of the Office
of Management and Budget, before the Com-
mittees on Appropriations or their sub-
committees: Provided further, That none of
the funds made available for the Office of
Management and Budget by this Act may be
expended for the altering of the annual work
plan developed by the Corps of Engineers for
submission to the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That of the funds
made available for the Office of Management
and Budget by this Act, no less than three
full-time equivalent senior staff position
shall be dedicated solely to the Office of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1056 January 23, 2019
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordi-
nator: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be
used, directly or indirectly, by the Office of
Management and Budget, for evaluating or
determining if water resource project or
study reports submitted by the Chief of En-
gineers acting through the Secretary of the
Army are in compliance with all applicable
laws, regulations, and requirements relevant
to the Civil Works water resource planning
process: Provided further, That the Office of
Management and Budget shall have not more
than 60 days in which to perform budgetary
policy reviews of water resource matters on
which the Chief of Engineers has reported:
Provided further, That the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget shall notify
the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees when the 60-day review
is initiated: Provided further, That if water
resource reports have not been transmitted
to the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees within 15 days after the
end of the Office of Management and Budget
review period based on the notification from
the Director, Congress shall assume Office of
Management and Budget concurrence with
the report and act accordingly.
In addition, $1,000,000 for the Office of In-
formation and Regulatory Affairs to hire ad-
ditional personnel dedicated to regulatory
review and reforms: Provided, That these
amounts shall be in addition to any other
amounts available for such purpose: Provided
further, That these funds may not be used to
backfill vacancies.
OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy; for research ac-
tivities pursuant to the Office of National
Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–469); not to exceed
$10,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses; and for participation in joint
projects or in the provision of services on
matters of mutual interest with nonprofit,
research, or public organizations or agencies,
with or without reimbursement, $18,400,000:
Provided, That the Office is authorized to ac-
cept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both
real and personal, public and private, with-
out fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of
aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.
FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS
PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy’s High Intensity
Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $280,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2020,
for drug control activities consistent with
the approved strategy for each of the des-
ignated High Intensity Drug Trafficking
Areas (‘‘HIDTAs’’), of which not less than 51
percent shall be transferred to State and
local entities for drug control activities and
shall be obligated not later than 120 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided, That
up to 49 percent may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies and departments in amounts
determined by the Director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, of which up to
$2,700,000 may be used for auditing services
and associated activities: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding the requirements of
Public Law 106–58, any unexpended funds ob-
ligated prior to fiscal year 2017 may be used
for any other approved activities of that
HIDTA, subject to reprogramming require-
ments: Provided further, That each HIDTA
designated as of September 30, 2018, shall be
funded at not less than the fiscal year 2018
base level, unless the Director submits to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate justifica-
tion for changes to those levels based on
clearly articulated priorities and published
Office of National Drug Control Policy per-
formance measures of effectiveness: Provided
further, That the Director shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the initial
allocation of fiscal year 2019 funding among
HIDTAs not later than 45 days after enact-
ment of this Act, and shall notify the Com-
mittees of planned uses of discretionary
HIDTA funding, as determined in consulta-
tion with the HIDTA Directors, not later
than 90 days after enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds so transferred
from this appropriation are not necessary for
the purposes provided herein and upon notifi-
cation to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate, such amounts may be transferred back
to this appropriation.
OTHER FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For other drug control activities author-
ized by the Office of National Drug Control
Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public
Law 109–469), $118,327,000, to remain available
until expended, which shall be available as
follows: $100,000,000 for the Drug-Free Com-
munities Program, of which $2,000,000 shall
be made available as directed by section 4 of
Public Law 107–82, as amended by Public Law
109–469 (21 U.S.C. 1521 note); $2,000,000 for
drug court training and technical assistance;
$9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,577,000
for the United States membership dues to
the World Anti-Doping Agency; and $1,250,000
shall be made available as directed by sec-
tion 1105 of Public Law 109–469; and $3,000,000,
to remain available until expended, shall be
for activities authorized by section 103 of
Public Law 114–198: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading may be
transferred to other Federal departments
and agencies to carry out such activities.
UNANTICIPATED NEEDS
For expenses necessary to enable the Presi-
dent to meet unanticipated needs, in further-
ance of the national interest, security, or de-
fense which may arise at home or abroad
during the current fiscal year, as authorized
by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT AND
REFORM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for the furtherance
of integrated, efficient, secure, and effective
uses of information technology in the Fed-
eral Government, $28,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget may transfer these funds to one or
more other agencies to carry out projects to
meet these purposes.
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PRESIDENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to enable the Vice
President to provide assistance to the Presi-
dent in connection with specially assigned
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, including subsistence
expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; and hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,288,000.
OFFICIAL RESIDENCE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the care, operation, refurnishing, im-
provement, and to the extent not otherwise
provided for, heating and lighting, including
electric power and fixtures, of the official
residence of the Vice President; the hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $302,000:
Provided, That advances, repayments, or
transfers from this appropriation may be
made to any department or agency for ex-
penses of carrying out such activities.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—EXECUTIVE OF-
FICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPRO-
PRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 201. From funds made available in this
Act under the headings ‘‘The White House’’,
‘‘Executive Residence at the White House’’,
‘‘White House Repair and Restoration’’,
‘‘Council of Economic Advisers’’, ‘‘National
Security Council and Homeland Security
Council’’, ‘‘Office of Administration’’, ‘‘Spe-
cial Assistance to the President’’, and ‘‘Offi-
cial Residence of the Vice President’’, the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget (or such other officer as the Presi-
dent may designate in writing), may, with
advance approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 per-
cent of any such appropriation to any other
such appropriation, to be merged with and
available for the same time and for the same
purposes as the appropriation to which
transferred: Provided, That the amount of an
appropriation shall not be increased by more
than 50 percent by such transfers: Provided
further, That no amount shall be transferred
from ‘‘Special Assistance to the President’’
or ‘‘Official Residence of the Vice President’’
without the approval of the Vice President.
SEC. 202. (a) During fiscal year 2019, any
Executive order or Presidential memo-
randum issued or revoked by the President
shall be accompanied by a written statement
from the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget on the budgetary impact,
including costs, benefits, and revenues, of
such order or memorandum.
(b) Any such statement shall include—
(1) a narrative summary of the budgetary
impact of such order or memorandum on the
Federal Government;
(2) the impact on mandatory and discre-
tionary obligations and outlays as the result
of such order or memorandum, listed by Fed-
eral agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year
period beginning in fiscal year 2019; and
(3) the impact on revenues of the Federal
Government as the result of such order or
memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year period
beginning in fiscal year 2019.
(c) If an Executive order or Presidential
memorandum is issued during fiscal year
2019 due to a national emergency, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
may issue the statement required by sub-
section (a) not later than 15 days after the
date that such order or memorandum is
issued.
(d) The requirement for cost estimates for
Presidential memoranda shall only apply for
Presidential memoranda estimated to have a
regulatory cost in excess of $100,000,000.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Executive
Office of the President Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
TITLE III
THE JUDICIARY
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the operation of
the Supreme Court, as required by law, ex-
cluding care of the building and grounds, in-
cluding hire of passenger motor vehicles as
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to
exceed $10,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for miscellaneous
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1057
January 23, 2019
may approve, $84,703,000, of which $1,500,000
shall remain available until expended.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief justice and asso-
ciate justices of the court.
CARE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS
For such expenditures as may be necessary
to enable the Architect of the Capitol to
carry out the duties imposed upon the Archi-
tect by 40 U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,999,000, to
remain available until expended.
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FEDERAL CIRCUIT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees, and
for necessary expenses of the court, as au-
thorized by law, $32,016,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL
TRADE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees of
the court, services, and necessary expenses
of the court, as authorized by law, $18,882,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
COURTS OF APPEALS, DISTRICT COURTS, AND
OTHER JUDICIAL SERVICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries of judges of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, magistrate
judges, and all other officers and employees
of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise spe-
cifically provided for, necessary expenses of
the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair,
and cleaning of uniforms for Probation and
Pretrial Services Office staff, as authorized
by law, $5,144,383,000 (including the purchase
of firearms and ammunition); of which not to
exceed $27,817,000 shall remain available
until expended for space alteration projects
and for furniture and furnishings related to
new space alteration and construction
projects.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of circuit and district judges
(including judges of the territorial courts of
the United States), bankruptcy judges, and
justices and judges retired from office or
from regular active service.
In addition, for expenses of the United
States Court of Federal Claims associated
with processing cases under the National
Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public
Law 99–660), not to exceed $8,475,000, to be ap-
propriated from the Vaccine Injury Com-
pensation Trust Fund.
DEFENDER SERVICES
For the operation of Federal Defender or-
ganizations; the compensation and reim-
bursement of expenses of attorneys ap-
pointed to represent persons under 18 U.S.C.
3006A and 3599, and for the compensation and
reimbursement of expenses of persons fur-
nishing investigative, expert, and other serv-
ices for such representations as authorized
by law; the compensation (in accordance
with the maximums under 18 U.S.C. 3006A)
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to assist the court in criminal
cases where the defendant has waived rep-
resentation by counsel; the compensation
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to represent jurors in civil actions
for the protection of their employment, as
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d)(1); the com-
pensation and reimbursement of expenses of
attorneys appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1)
in connection with certain judicial civil for-
feiture proceedings; the compensation and
reimbursement of travel expenses of guard-
ians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C.
4100(b); and for necessary training and gen-
eral administrative expenses, $1,150,450,000 to
remain available until expended.
FEES OF JURORS AND COMMISSIONERS
For fees and expenses of jurors as author-
ized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 1876; compensation
of jury commissioners as authorized by 28
U.S.C. 1863; and compensation of commis-
sioners appointed in condemnation cases
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. Appendix Rule
71.1(h)), $49,750,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the compensation
of land commissioners shall not exceed the
daily equivalent of the highest rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5332.
COURT SECURITY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, incident to the provision of protec-
tive guard services for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, and the procurement, in-
stallation, and maintenance of security sys-
tems and equipment for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, including building ingress-
egress control, inspection of mail and pack-
ages, directed security patrols, perimeter se-
curity, basic security services provided by
the Federal Protective Service, and other
similar activities as authorized by section
1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access
to Justice Act (Public Law 100–702),
$607,110,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000
shall remain available until expended, to be
expended directly or transferred to the
United States Marshals Service, which shall
be responsible for administering the Judicial
Facility Security Program consistent with
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Di-
rector of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts and the Attorney Gen-
eral.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED
STATES COURTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Office of the United States Courts as au-
thorized by law, including travel as author-
ized by 31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger
motor vehicle as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b), advertising and rent in the District
of Columbia and elsewhere, $92,413,000, of
which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for
official reception and representation ex-
penses.
FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Ju-
dicial Center, as authorized by Public Law
90–219, $29,819,000; of which $1,800,000 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2020,
to provide education and training to Federal
court personnel; and of which not to exceed
$1,500 is authorized for official reception and
representation expenses.
UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries and expenses necessary to
carry out the provisions of chapter 58 of title
28, United States Code, $18,953,000, of which
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official
reception and representation expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—THE JUDICIARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 301. Appropriations and authoriza-
tions made in this title which are available
for salaries and expenses shall be available
for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
SEC. 302. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may
be transferred between such appropriations,
but no such appropriation, except ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Defender Services’’ and ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Fees of Jurors and Commis-
sioners’’, shall be increased by more than 10
percent by any such transfers: Provided, That
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall not
be available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in section 608.
SEC. 303. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the salaries and expenses appro-
priation for ‘‘Courts of Appeals, District
Courts, and Other Judicial Services’’ shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses of the Judicial Conference of
the United States: Provided, That such avail-
able funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall
be administered by the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the
Judicial Conference.
SEC. 304. Section 3315(a) of title 40, United
States Code, shall be applied by substituting
‘‘Federal’’ for ‘‘executive’’ each place it ap-
pears.
SEC. 305. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561–
569, and notwithstanding any other provision
of law, the United States Marshals Service
shall provide, for such courthouses as its Di-
rector may designate in consultation with
the Director of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts, for purposes of a
pilot program, the security services that 40
U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of
Homeland Security to provide, except for the
services specified in 40 U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E).
For building-specific security services at
these courthouses, the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts shall reimburse the United States
Marshals Service rather than the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
SEC. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial
Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–
650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the
matter following paragraph 12—
(1) in the second sentence (relating to the
District of Kansas), by striking ‘‘27 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘28 years and 6
months’’; and
(2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the
District of Hawaii), by striking ‘‘24 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘25 years and 6
months’’.
(b) Section 406 of the Transportation,
Treasury, Housing and Urban Development,
the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
2006 (Public Law 109–115; 119 Stat. 2470; 28
U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second
sentence (relating to the eastern District of
Missouri) by striking ‘‘25 years and 6
months’’ and inserting ‘‘26 years and 6
months’’.
(c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century De-
partment of Justice Appropriations Author-
ization Act (Public Law 107–273; 28 U.S.C. 133
note), is amended—
(1) in the first sentence by striking ‘‘16
years’’ and inserting ‘‘17 years’’;
(2) in the second sentence (relating to the
central District of California), by striking
‘‘15 years and 6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘16
years and 6 months’’; and
(3) in the third sentence (relating to the
western district of North Carolina), by strik-
ing ‘‘14 years’’ and inserting ‘‘15 years’’.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Judiciary
Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1058 January 23, 2019
TITLE IV
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FEDERAL FUNDS
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR RESIDENT TUITION
SUPPORT
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia, to be deposited into a dedicated
account, for a nationwide program to be ad-
ministered by the Mayor, for District of Co-
lumbia resident tuition support, $40,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such funds, including any interest ac-
crued thereon, may be used on behalf of eli-
gible District of Columbia residents to pay
an amount based upon the difference be-
tween in-State and out-of-State tuition at
public institutions of higher education, or to
pay up to $2,500 each year at eligible private
institutions of higher education: Provided
further, That the awarding of such funds may
be prioritized on the basis of a resident’s aca-
demic merit, the income and need of eligible
students and such other factors as may be
authorized: Provided further, That the Dis-
trict of Columbia government shall maintain
a dedicated account for the Resident Tuition
Support Program that shall consist of the
Federal funds appropriated to the Program
in this Act and any subsequent appropria-
tions, any unobligated balances from prior
fiscal years, and any interest earned in this
or any fiscal year: Provided further, That the
account shall be under the control of the
District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer,
who shall use those funds solely for the pur-
poses of carrying out the Resident Tuition
Support Program: Provided further, That the
Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall
provide a quarterly financial report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate for these
funds showing, by object class, the expendi-
tures made and the purpose therefor.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING
AND SECURITY COSTS IN THE DISTRICT OF CO-
LUMBIA
For a Federal payment of necessary ex-
penses, as determined by the Mayor of the
District of Columbia in written consultation
with the elected county or city officials of
surrounding jurisdictions, $12,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, for the costs
of providing public safety at events related
to the presence of the National Capital in
the District of Columbia, including support
requested by the Director of the United
States Secret Service in carrying out protec-
tive duties under the direction of the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and for the
costs of providing support to respond to im-
mediate and specific terrorist threats or at-
tacks in the District of Columbia or sur-
rounding jurisdictions.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA COURTS
For salaries and expenses for the District
of Columbia Courts, $258,394,000 to be allo-
cated as follows: for the District of Columbia
Court of Appeals, $14,594,000, of which not to
exceed $2,500 is for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; for the Superior Court
of the District of Columbia, $124,400,000, of
which not to exceed $2,500 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses; for the
District of Columbia Court System,
$74,400,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for
official reception and representation ex-
penses; and $45,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, for capital improve-
ments for District of Columbia courthouse
facilities: Provided, That funds made avail-
able for capital improvements shall be ex-
pended consistent with the District of Co-
lumbia Courts master plan study and facili-
ties condition assessment: Provided further,
That, in addition to the amounts appro-
priated herein, fees received by the District
of Columbia Courts for administering bar ex-
aminations and processing District of Co-
lumbia bar admissions may be retained and
credited to this appropriation, to remain
available until expended, for salaries and ex-
penses associated with such activities, not-
withstanding section 450 of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code,
sec. 1–204.50): Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, all
amounts under this heading shall be appor-
tioned quarterly by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and obligated and expended
in the same manner as funds appropriated
for salaries and expenses of other Federal
agencies: Provided further, That 30 days after
providing written notice to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate, the District of Colum-
bia Courts may reallocate not more than
$9,000,000 of the funds provided under this
heading among the items and entities funded
under this heading: Provided further, That
the Joint Committee on Judicial Adminis-
tration in the District of Columbia may, by
regulation, establish a program substan-
tially similar to the program set forth in
subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United
States Code, for employees of the District of
Columbia Courts.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR DEFENDER SERVICES IN
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payments authorized under section 11–
2604 and section 11–2605, D.C. Official Code
(relating to representation provided under
the District of Columbia Criminal Justice
Act), payments for counsel appointed in pro-
ceedings in the Family Court of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia under
chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, or
pursuant to contractual agreements to pro-
vide guardian ad litem representation, train-
ing, technical assistance, and such other
services as are necessary to improve the
quality of guardian ad litem representation,
payments for counsel appointed in adoption
proceedings under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C.
Official Code, and payments authorized
under section 21–2060, D.C. Official Code (re-
lating to services provided under the District
of Columbia Guardianship, Protective Pro-
ceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act
of 1986), $46,005,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That not more than
$20,000,000 in unobligated funds provided in
this account may be transferred to and
merged with funds made available under the
heading ‘‘Federal Payment to the District of
Columbia Courts,’’ to be available for the
same period and purposes as funds made
available under that heading for capital im-
provements to District of Columbia court-
house facilities: Provided further, That funds
provided under this heading shall be admin-
istered by the Joint Committee on Judicial
Administration in the District of Columbia:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, this appropriation
shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office
of Management and Budget and obligated
and expended in the same manner as funds
appropriated for expenses of other Federal
agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE COURT SERVICES
AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
Court Services and Offender Supervision
Agency for the District of Columbia, as au-
thorized by the National Capital Revitaliza-
tion and Self-Government Improvement Act
of 1997, $256,724,000, of which not to exceed
$2,000 is for official reception and representa-
tion expenses related to Community Super-
vision and Pretrial Services Agency pro-
grams, and of which not to exceed $25,000 is
for dues and assessments relating to the im-
plementation of the Court Services and Of-
fender Supervision Agency Interstate Super-
vision Act of 2002: Provided, That, of the
funds appropriated under this heading,
$183,166,000 shall be for necessary expenses of
Community Supervision and Sex Offender
Registration, to include expenses relating to
the supervision of adults subject to protec-
tion orders or the provision of services for or
related to such persons, of which $5,919,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021 for costs associated with relocation
under a replacement lease for headquarters
offices, field offices, and related facilities:
Provided further, That, of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, $73,558,000 shall
be available to the Pretrial Services Agency,
of which $7,304,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021 for costs associated
with relocation under a replacement lease
for headquarters offices, field offices, and re-
lated facilities: Provided further, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law, all
amounts under this heading shall be appor-
tioned quarterly by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and obligated and expended
in the same manner as funds appropriated
for salaries and expenses of other Federal
agencies: Provided further, That amounts
under this heading may be used for pro-
grammatic incentives for defendants to suc-
cessfully complete their terms of super-
vision.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICE
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
District of Columbia Public Defender Serv-
ice, as authorized by the National Capital
Revitalization and Self-Government Im-
provement Act of 1997, $45,858,000, of which
$4,471,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021 for costs associated with relo-
cation under a replacement lease for head-
quarters offices, field offices, and related fa-
cilities: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, all amounts under
this heading shall be apportioned quarterly
by the Office of Management and Budget and
obligated and expended in the same manner
as funds appropriated for salaries and ex-
penses of Federal agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
COORDINATING COUNCIL
For a Federal payment to the Criminal
Justice Coordinating Council, $2,150,000, to
remain available until expended, to support
initiatives related to the coordination of
Federal and local criminal justice resources
in the District of Columbia.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR JUDICIAL COMMISSIONS
For a Federal payment, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, to the Commis-
sion on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure,
$295,000, and for the Judicial Nomination
Commission, $270,000.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT
For a Federal payment for a school im-
provement program in the District of Colum-
bia, $52,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for payments authorized under the
Scholarships for Opportunity and Results
Act (division C of Public Law 112–10): Pro-
vided, That, to the extent that funds are
available for opportunity scholarships and
following the priorities included in section
3006 of such Act, the Secretary of Education
shall make scholarships available to stu-
dents eligible under section 3013(3) of such
Act (Public Law 112–10; 125 Stat. 211) includ-
ing students who were not offered a scholar-
ship during any previous school year: Pro-
vided further, That within funds provided for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1059
January 23, 2019
opportunity scholarships up to $1,200,000
shall be for the activities specified in sec-
tions 3007(b) through 3007(d) of the Act and
up to $500,000 shall be for the activities speci-
fied in section 3009 of the Act.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia National Guard, $435,000, to remain
available until expended for the Major Gen-
eral David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Colum-
bia National Guard Retention and College
Access Program.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR TESTING AND
TREATMENT OF HIV/AIDS
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia for the testing of individuals for,
and the treatment of individuals with,
human immunodeficiency virus and acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome in the District
of Columbia, $3,000,000.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS
Local funds are appropriated for the Dis-
trict of Columbia for the current fiscal year
out of the General Fund of the District of
Columbia (‘‘General Fund’’) for programs
and activities set forth under the heading
‘‘PART A—SUMMARY OF EXPENSES’’ and at the
rate set forth under such heading, as in-
cluded in the Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Re-
quest Act of 2018 submitted to Congress by
the District of Columbia, as amended as of
the date of enactment of this Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, except as provided in section 450A of the
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section
1–204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 816 and
817 of the Financial Services and General
Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs.
47–369.01 and 47–369.02, D.C. Official Code),
and provisions of this Act, the total amount
appropriated in this Act for operating ex-
penses for the District of Columbia for fiscal
year 2019 under this heading shall not exceed
the estimates included in the Fiscal Year
2019 Budget Request Act of 2018 submitted to
Congress by the District of Columbia, as
amended as of the date of enactment of this
Act or the sum of the total revenues of the
District of Columbia for such fiscal year:
Provided further, That the amount appro-
priated may be increased by proceeds of one-
time transactions, which are expended for
emergency or unanticipated operating or
capital needs: Provided further, That such in-
creases shall be approved by enactment of
local District law and shall comply with all
reserve requirements contained in the Dis-
trict of Columbia Home Rule Act: Provided
further, That the Chief Financial Officer of
the District of Columbia shall take such
steps as are necessary to assure that the Dis-
trict of Columbia meets these requirements,
including the apportioning by the Chief Fi-
nancial Officer of the appropriations and
funds made available to the District during
fiscal year 2019, except that the Chief Finan-
cial Officer may not reprogram for operating
expenses any funds derived from bonds,
notes, or other obligations issued for capital
projects.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia Water and Sewer Authority,
$8,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to continue implementation of the
Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan:
Provided, That the District of Columbia
Water and Sewer Authority provides a 100
percent match for this payment.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘District of
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE V
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
ADMINISTRATIVE CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED
STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States, author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,100,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, of
which not to exceed $1,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act
(7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase
and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and the
rental of space (to include multiple year
leases), in the District of Columbia and else-
where, $268,000,000, including not to exceed
$3,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for
the expenses for consultations and meetings
hosted by the Commission with foreign gov-
ernmental and other regulatory officials, of
which not less than $50,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, shall be
for the purchase of information technology
and of which not less than $3,000,000 shall be
for expenses of the Office of the Inspector
General: Provided, That notwithstanding the
limitations in 31 U.S.C. 1553, amounts pro-
vided under this heading are available for
the liquidation of obligations equal to cur-
rent year payments on leases entered into
prior to the date of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That for the purpose of re-
cording and liquidating any lease obligations
that should have been recorded and liq-
uidated against accounts closed pursuant to
31 U.S.C. 1552, and consistent with the pre-
ceding proviso, such amounts shall be trans-
ferred to and recorded in a no-year account
in the Treasury, which has been established
for the sole purpose of recording adjustments
for and liquidating such unpaid obligations.
CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles, services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for in-
dividuals not to exceed the per diem rate
equivalent to the maximum rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5376, purchase of nominal
awards to recognize non-Federal officials’
contributions to Commission activities, and
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $127,000,000, of
which $800,000 shall remain available until
expended to carry out the program, includ-
ing administrative costs, required by section
1405 of the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and
Spa Safety Act (Public Law 110–140; 15 U.S.C.
8004).
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—CONSUMER
PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SEC. 501. During fiscal year 2019, none of
the amounts made available by this Act may
be used to finalize or implement the Safety
Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehi-
cles published by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in the Federal Register
on November 19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964)
until after—
(1) the National Academy of Sciences, in
consultation with the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration and the De-
partment of Defense, completes a study to
determine—
(A) the technical validity of the lateral
stability and vehicle handling requirements
proposed by such standard for purposes of re-
ducing the risk of Recreational Off-Highway
Vehicle (referred to in this section as
‘‘ROV’’) rollovers in the off-road environ-
ment, including the repeatability and repro-
ducibility of testing for compliance with
such requirements;
(B) the number of ROV rollovers that
would be prevented if the proposed require-
ments were adopted;
(C) whether there is a technical basis for
the proposal to provide information on a
point-of-sale hangtag about a ROV’s rollover
resistance on a progressive scale; and
(D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used
by the United States military if the proposed
requirements were adopted; and
(2) a report containing the results of the
study completed under paragraph (1) is deliv-
ered to—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (Public Law
107–252), $9,200,000, of which $1,250,000 shall be
transferred to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology for election re-
form activities authorized under the Help
America Vote Act of 2002.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Communications Commission, as authorized
by law, including uniforms and allowances
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902;
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses; purchase and hire
of motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$339,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $339,000,000 of offset-
ting collections shall be assessed and col-
lected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the
Communications Act of 1934, shall be re-
tained and used for necessary expenses and
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated shall be reduced as such offsetting
collections are received during fiscal year
2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019
appropriation estimated at $0: Provided fur-
ther, That any offsetting collections received
in excess of $339,000,000 in fiscal year 2019
shall not be available for obligation: Provided
further, That remaining offsetting collec-
tions from prior years collected in excess of
the amount specified for collection in each
such year and otherwise becoming available
on October 1, 2018, shall not be available for
obligation: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from
the use of a competitive bidding system that
may be retained and made available for obli-
gation shall not exceed $130,284,000 for fiscal
year 2019: Provided further, That, of the
amount appropriated under this heading, not
less than $11,064,000 shall be for the salaries
and expenses of the Office of Inspector Gen-
eral.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SEC. 510. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change its rules or regulations for universal
service support payments to implement the
February 27, 2004 recommendations of the
Federal-State Joint Board on Universal
Service regarding single connection or pri-
mary line restrictions on universal service
support payments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1060 January 23, 2019
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$42,982,000, to be derived from the Deposit In-
surance Fund or, only when appropriate, the
FSLIC Resolution Fund.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971, $71,250,000, of which not to exceed
$5,000 shall be available for reception and
representation expenses.
FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Federal Labor Relations Author-
ity, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Num-
bered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform
Act of 1978, including services authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts
and consultants, hire of passenger motor ve-
hicles, and including official reception and
representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500)
and rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, $26,200,000:
Provided, That public members of the Fed-
eral Service Impasses Panel may be paid
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of sub-
sistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703)
for persons employed intermittently in the
Government service, and compensation as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds
received from fees charged to non-Federal
participants at labor-management relations
conferences shall be credited to and merged
with this account, to be available without
further appropriation for the costs of car-
rying out these conferences.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Trade Commission, including uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
5901–5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and
not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $309,700,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available
for use to contract with a person or persons
for collection services in accordance with
the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, not to exceed $136,000,000 of offsetting
collections derived from fees collected for
premerger notification filings under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the
year of collection, shall be retained and used
for necessary expenses in this appropriation:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, not to exceed
$17,000,000 in offsetting collections derived
from fees sufficient to implement and en-
force the Telemarketing Sales Rule, promul-
gated under the Telemarketing and Con-
sumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15
U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to this
account, and be retained and used for nec-
essary expenses in this appropriation: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as such offsetting collections are re-
ceived during fiscal year 2019, so as to result
in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation from
the general fund estimated at not more than
$156,700,000: Provided further, That none of the
funds made available to the Federal Trade
Commission may be used to implement sub-
section (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t).
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND
LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF REVENUE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Amounts in the Fund, including revenues
and collections deposited into the Fund,
shall be available for necessary expenses of
real property management and related ac-
tivities not otherwise provided for, including
operation, maintenance, and protection of
federally owned and leased buildings; rental
of buildings in the District of Columbia; res-
toration of leased premises; moving govern-
mental agencies (including space adjust-
ments and telecommunications relocation
expenses) in connection with the assignment,
allocation, and transfer of space; contractual
services incident to cleaning or servicing
buildings, and moving; repair and alteration
of federally owned buildings, including
grounds, approaches, and appurtenances;
care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance,
preservation, demolition, and equipment; ac-
quisition of buildings and sites by purchase,
condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by
law; acquisition of options to purchase build-
ings and sites; conversion and extension of
federally owned buildings; preliminary plan-
ning and design of projects by contract or
otherwise; construction of new buildings (in-
cluding equipment for such buildings); and
payment of principal, interest, and any other
obligations for public buildings acquired by
installment purchase and purchase contract;
in the aggregate amount of $9,847,304,000, of
which—
(1) $1,521,122,000 shall remain available
until expended for construction and acquisi-
tion (including funds for sites and expenses,
and associated design and construction serv-
ices) as follows:
(A) $767,900,000 shall be for the Department
of Transportation Lease Purchase Option,
Washington, District of Columbia;
(B) $229,000,000 shall be for the DHS Con-
solidation at St. Elizabeths, Washington,
District of Columbia;
(C) $275,900,000 shall be for the Calexico
West Land Port of Entry, Calexico, Cali-
fornia;
(D) $248,322,000 shall be for the San Luis
Land Port of Entry, San Luis, Arizona:
Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of
costs on new construction and acquisition
projects may be exceeded to the extent that
savings are effected in other such projects,
but not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts
included in a transmitted prospectus, if re-
quired, unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount;
(2) $663,219,000 shall remain available until
expended for repairs and alterations, includ-
ing associated design and construction serv-
ices, of which—
(A) $276,837,000 is for Major Repairs and Al-
terations;
(B) $356,382,000 is for Basic Repairs and Al-
terations; and
(C) $30,000,000 is for Special Emphasis Pro-
grams for Fire and Life Safety:
Provided, That funds made available in this
or any previous Act in the Federal Buildings
Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for
prospectus projects, be limited to the
amount identified for each project, except
each project in this or any previous Act may
be increased by an amount not to exceed 10
percent unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount: Provided further, That addi-
tional projects for which prospectuses have
been fully approved may be funded under
this category only if advance approval is ob-
tained from the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That the amounts
provided in this or any prior Act for ‘‘Re-
pairs and Alterations’’ may be used to fund
costs associated with implementing security
improvements to buildings necessary to
meet the minimum standards for security in
accordance with current law and in compli-
ance with the reprogramming guidelines of
the appropriate Committees of the House
and Senate: Provided further, That the dif-
ference between the funds appropriated and
expended on any projects in this or any prior
Act, under the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alter-
ations’’, may be transferred to Basic Repairs
and Alterations or used to fund authorized
increases in prospectus projects: Provided
further, That the amount provided in this or
any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alter-
ations may be used to pay claims against the
Government arising from any projects under
the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alterations’’ or
used to fund authorized increases in pro-
spectus projects;
(3) $5,418,845,000 for rental of space to re-
main available until expended; and
(4) $2,244,118,000 for building operations to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That the total amount of funds made avail-
able from this Fund to the General Services
Administration shall not be available for ex-
penses of any construction, repair, alteration
and acquisition project for which a pro-
spectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has
not been approved, except that necessary
funds may be expended for each project for
required expenses for the development of a
proposed prospectus: Provided further, That
funds available in the Federal Buildings
Fund may be expended for emergency repairs
when advance approval is obtained from the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts necessary to provide re-
imbursable special services to other agencies
under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to pro-
vide such reimbursable fencing, lighting,
guard booths, and other facilities on private
or other property not in Government owner-
ship or control as may be appropriate to en-
able the United States Secret Service to per-
form its protective functions pursuant to 18
U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such rev-
enues and collections: Provided further, That
revenues and collections and any other sums
accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 2019,
excluding reimbursements under 40 U.S.C.
592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new
obligational authority authorized for Real
Property Activities of the Federal Buildings
Fund in this Act shall remain in the Fund
and shall not be available for expenditure ex-
cept as authorized in appropriations Acts.
GENERAL ACTIVITIES
GOVERNMENT-WIDE POLICY
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide pol-
icy and evaluation activities associated with
the management of real and personal prop-
erty assets and certain administrative serv-
ices; Government-wide policy support re-
sponsibilities relating to acquisition, travel,
motor vehicles, information technology
management, and related technology activi-
ties; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; $60,000,000.
OPERATING EXPENSES
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide ac-
tivities associated with utilization and dona-
tion of surplus personal property; disposal of
real property; agency-wide policy direction,
management, and communications; and serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $49,440,000,
of which $26,890,000 is for Real and Personal
Property Management and Disposal;
$22,550,000 is for the Office of the Adminis-
trator, of which not to exceed $7,500 is for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1061
January 23, 2019
CIVILIAN BOARD OF CONTRACT APPEALS
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for the activities associ-
ated with the Civilian Board of Contract Ap-
peals, $9,301,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General and service authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000: Provided, That not to
exceed $50,000 shall be available for payment
for information and detection of fraud
against the Government, including payment
for recovery of stolen Government property:
Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500
shall be available for awards to employees of
other Federal agencies and private citizens
in recognition of efforts and initiatives re-
sulting in enhanced Office of Inspector Gen-
eral effectiveness.
ALLOWANCES AND OFFICE STAFF FOR FORMER
PRESIDENTS
For carrying out the provisions of the Act
of August 25, 1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and
Public Law 95–138, $4,796,000.
FEDERAL CITIZEN SERVICES FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Products and Programs, including services
authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 44 U.S.C. 3604;
and for necessary expenses in support of
interagency projects that enable the Federal
Government to enhance its ability to con-
duct activities electronically, through the
development and implementation of innova-
tive uses of information technology;
$55,000,000, to be deposited into the Federal
Citizen Services Fund: Provided, That the
previous amount may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies to carry out the purpose of the
Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided fur-
ther, That the appropriations, revenues, re-
imbursements, and collections deposited into
the Fund shall be available until expended
for necessary expenses of Federal Citizen
Services and other activities that enable the
Federal Government to enhance its ability
to conduct activities electronically in the
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000:
Provided further, That appropriations, reve-
nues, reimbursements, and collections accru-
ing to this Fund during fiscal year 2019 in ex-
cess of such amount shall remain in the
Fund and shall not be available for expendi-
ture except as authorized in appropriations
Acts: Provided further, That the transfer au-
thorities provided herein shall be in addition
to any other transfer authority provided in
this Act.
TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND
For the Technology Modernization Fund,
$25,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for technology-related moderniza-
tion activities.
ASSET PROCEEDS AND SPACE MANAGEMENT
FUND
For carrying out the purposes of the Fed-
eral Assets Sale and Transfer Act of 2016
(Public Law 114–287), $25,000,000, to be depos-
ited into the Asset Proceeds and Space Man-
agement Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW IMPROVEMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of the Environ-
mental Review Improvement Fund estab-
lished pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m–8(d),
$6,070,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—GENERAL
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 520. Funds available to the General
Services Administration shall be available
for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
SEC. 521. Funds in the Federal Buildings
Fund made available for fiscal year 2019 for
Federal Buildings Fund activities may be
transferred between such activities only to
the extent necessary to meet program re-
quirements: Provided, That any proposed
transfers shall be approved in advance by the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 522. Except as otherwise provided in
this title, funds made available by this Act
shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2020
request for United States Courthouse con-
struction only if the request: (1) meets the
design guide standards for construction as
established and approved by the General
Services Administration, the Judicial Con-
ference of the United States, and the Office
of Management and Budget; (2) reflects the
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the
United States as set out in its approved
Courthouse Project Priorities plan; and (3)
includes a standardized courtroom utiliza-
tion study of each facility to be constructed,
replaced, or expanded.
SEC. 523. None of the funds provided in this
Act may be used to increase the amount of
occupiable square feet, provide cleaning
services, security enhancements, or any
other service usually provided through the
Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that
does not pay the rate per square foot assess-
ment for space and services as determined by
the General Services Administration in con-
sideration of the Public Buildings Amend-
ments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92–313).
SEC. 524. From funds made available under
the heading Federal Buildings Fund, Limita-
tions on Availability of Revenue, claims
against the Government of less than $250,000
arising from direct construction projects and
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated
from savings effected in other construction
projects with prior notification to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 525. In any case in which the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works of the Senate adopt a resolution
granting lease authority pursuant to a pro-
spectus transmitted to Congress by the Ad-
ministrator of the General Services Adminis-
tration under 40 U.S.C. 3307, the Adminis-
trator shall ensure that the delineated area
of procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus for all lease
agreements, except that, if the Adminis-
trator determines that the delineated area of
the procurement should not be identical to
the delineated area included in the pro-
spectus, the Administrator shall provide an
explanatory statement to each of such com-
mittees and the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate prior to exercising any lease au-
thority provided in the resolution.
SEC. 526. With respect to each project fund-
ed under the heading ‘‘Major Repairs and Al-
terations’’ or ‘‘Judiciary Capital Security
Program’’, and with respect to E–Govern-
ment projects funded under the heading
‘‘Federal Citizen Services Fund’’, the Admin-
istrator of General Services shall submit a
spending plan and explanation for each
project to be undertaken to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 527. The Administrator of General
Services shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the Senate and
House of Representatives not later than 30
days following implementation of the initia-
tive established under (c)(2) of Section 846 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 41 U.S.C.
1901 note) containing a market analysis and
an implementation strategy related to the
requirements under subparagraph (h) of Sec-
tion 846. The report shall address strategies
and processes for proper government safe-
guards to data management and privacy for
incorporation into the implementation of
Section 846 to ensure a competitive environ-
ment.
HARRY S TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For payment to the Harry S Truman
Scholarship Foundation Trust Fund, estab-
lished by section 10 of Public Law 93–642,
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Merit Systems Protection Board
pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2
of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978,
and the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989
(5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where, hire of passenger motor vehicles, di-
rect procurement of survey printing, and not
to exceed $2,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $44,490,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, and in ad-
dition not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, for admin-
istrative expenses to adjudicate retirement
appeals to be transferred from the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund in
amounts determined by the Merit Systems
Protection Board.
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
FOUNDATION
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
TRUST FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment to the Morris K. Udall and
Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, pursuant to
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall
Foundation Act (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.),
$1,875,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which, notwithstanding sections 8
and 9 of such Act: (1) up to $50,000 shall be
used to conduct financial audits pursuant to
the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–289); and (2) up to $1,000,000
shall be available to carry out the activities
authorized by section 6(7) of Public Law 102–
259 and section 817(a) of Public Law 106–568
(20 U.S.C. 5604(7)): Provided, That of the total
amount made available under this heading
$200,000 shall be transferred to the Office of
Inspector General of the Department of the
Interior, to remain available until expended,
for audits and investigations of the Morris K.
Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation, con-
sistent with the Inspector General Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
ENVIRONMENTAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION FUND
For payment to the Environmental Dis-
pute Resolution Fund to carry out activities
authorized in the Environmental Policy and
Conflict Resolution Act of 1998, $3,200,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses in connection with
the administration of the National Archives
and Records Administration and archived
Federal records and related activities, as
provided by law, and for expenses necessary
for the review and declassification of docu-
ments, the activities of the Public Interest
Declassification Board, the operations and
maintenance of the electronic records ar-
chives, the hire of passenger motor vehicles,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1062 January 23, 2019
and for uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning,
$373,000,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Reform Act of
2008, Public Law 110–409, 122 Stat. 4302–16
(2008), and the Inspector General Act of 1978
(5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,823,000.
REPAIRS AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of archives facilities, and to provide
adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND
RECORDS COMMISSION
GRANTS PROGRAM
For necessary expenses for allocations and
grants for historical publications and records
as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $6,000,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN
FUND
For the Community Development Revolv-
ing Loan Fund program as authorized by 42
U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2020, for tech-
nical assistance to low-income designated
credit unions.
OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Government Ethics pur-
suant to the Ethics in Government Act of
1978, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the
Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge
Act of 2012, including services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms
in the District of Columbia and elsewhere,
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to
exceed $1,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $17,019,000.
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan
Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Re-
form Act of 1978, including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examina-
tions performed for veterans by private phy-
sicians on a fee basis; rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not
to exceed $2,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; advances for reim-
bursements to applicable funds of OPM and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation for ex-
penses incurred under Executive Order No.
10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended; and pay-
ment of per diem and/or subsistence allow-
ances to employees where Voting Rights Act
activities require an employee to remain
overnight at his or her post of duty,
$132,172,000: Provided, That of the total
amount made available under this heading,
not to exceed $14,000,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, for information
technology infrastructure modernization and
Trust Fund Federal Financial System migra-
tion or modernization, and shall be in addi-
tion to funds otherwise made available for
such purposes: Provided further, That of the
total amount made available under this
heading, $639,018 may be made available for
strengthening the capacity and capabilities
of the acquisition workforce (as defined by
the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), in-
cluding the recruitment, hiring, training,
and retention of such workforce and infor-
mation technology in support of acquisition
workforce effectiveness or for management
solutions to improve acquisition manage-
ment; and in addition $133,483,000 for admin-
istrative expenses, to be transferred from the
appropriate trust funds of OPM without re-
gard to other statutes, including direct pro-
curement of printed materials, for the retire-
ment and insurance programs: Provided fur-
ther, That the provisions of this appropria-
tion shall not affect the authority to use ap-
plicable trust funds as provided by sections
8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 8988(f)(2)(A), and
9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code:
Provided further, That no part of this appro-
priation shall be available for salaries and
expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of
OPM established pursuant to Executive
Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any suc-
cessor unit of like purpose: Provided further,
That the President’s Commission on White
House Fellows, established by Executive
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, dur-
ing fiscal year 2019, accept donations of
money, property, and personal services: Pro-
vided further, That such donations, including
those from prior years, may be used for the
development of publicity materials to pro-
vide information about the White House Fel-
lows, except that no such donations shall be
accepted for travel or reimbursement of
travel expenses, or for the salaries of em-
ployees of such Commission.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, hire of passenger motor vehicles,
$5,000,000, and in addition, not to exceed
$25,265,000 for administrative expenses to
audit, investigate, and provide other over-
sight of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment’s retirement and insurance programs,
to be transferred from the appropriate trust
funds of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, as determined by the Inspector Gen-
eral: Provided, That the Inspector General is
authorized to rent conference rooms in the
District of Columbia and elsewhere.
OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Special Counsel pursu-
ant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of
1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–454), the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101–12) as
amended by Public Law 107–304, the Whistle-
blower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012
(Public Law 112–199), and the Uniformed
Services Employment and Reemployment
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–353), in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, payment of fees and expenses for wit-
nesses, rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; $26,535,000.
POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Postal Regu-
latory Commission in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Postal Accountability and En-
hancement Act (Public Law 109–435),
$15,200,000, to be derived by transfer from the
Postal Service Fund and expended as author-
ized by section 603(a) of such Act.
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Privacy and
Civil Liberties Oversight Board, as author-
ized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Re-
form and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
(42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Securities
and Exchange Commission, including serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental
of space (to include multiple year leases) in
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and
not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and
representation expenses, $1,674,902,000, to re-
main available until expended; of which not
less than $15,206,000 shall be for the Office of
Inspector General; of which not to exceed
$75,000 shall be available for a permanent
secretariat for the International Organiza-
tion of Securities Commissions; and of which
not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for
expenses for consultations and meetings
hosted by the Commission with foreign gov-
ernmental and other regulatory officials,
members of their delegations and staffs to
exchange views concerning securities mat-
ters, such expenses to include necessary lo-
gistic and administrative expenses and the
expenses of Commission staff and foreign
invitees in attendance including: (1) inci-
dental expenses such as meals; (2) travel and
transportation; and (3) related lodging or
subsistence; and of which not less than
$75,081,000 shall be for the Division of Eco-
nomic and Risk Analysis.
In addition to the foregoing appropriation,
for costs associated with relocation under a
replacement lease for the Commission’s New
York regional office facilities, not to exceed
$37,189,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That for purposes of calcu-
lating the fee rate under section 31(j) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78ee(j)) for fiscal year 2019, all amounts ap-
propriated under this heading shall be
deemed to be the regular appropriation to
the Commission for fiscal year 2019: Provided
further, That fees and charges authorized by
section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this
account as offsetting collections: Provided
further, That not to exceed $1,674,902,000 of
such offsetting collections shall be available
until expended for necessary expenses of this
account and not to exceed $37,189,000 of such
offsetting collections shall be available until
expended for costs under this heading associ-
ated with relocation under a replacement
lease for the Commission’s New York re-
gional office facilities: Provided further, That
the total amount appropriated under this
heading from the general fund for fiscal year
2019 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees
are received so as to result in a final total
fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at not more than $0: Pro-
vided further, That if any amount of the ap-
propriation for costs associated with reloca-
tion under a replacement lease for the Com-
mission’s New York regional office facilities
is subsequently de-obligated by the Commis-
sion, such amount that was derived from the
general fund shall be returned to the general
fund, and such amounts that were derived
from fees or assessments collected for such
purpose shall be paid to each national securi-
ties exchange and national securities asso-
ciation, respectively, in proportion to any
fees or assessments paid by such national se-
curities exchange or national securities asso-
ciation under section 31 of the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) in fiscal
year 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1063
January 23, 2019
SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Selective
Service System, including expenses of at-
tendance at meetings and of training for uni-
formed personnel assigned to the Selective
Service System, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
4101–4118 for civilian employees; hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles; services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $750 for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses;
$26,000,000: Provided, That during the current
fiscal year, the President may exempt this
appropriation from the provisions of 31
U.S.C. 1341, whenever the President deems
such action to be necessary in the interest of
national defense: Provided further, That none
of the funds appropriated by this Act may be
expended for or in connection with the in-
duction of any person into the Armed Forces
of the United States.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, of the Small Business Administra-
tion, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles as authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of
title 31, United States Code, and not to ex-
ceed $3,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $267,500,000, of which
not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for
examinations, reviews, and other lender
oversight activities: Provided, That the Ad-
ministrator is authorized to charge fees to
cover the cost of publications developed by
the Small Business Administration, and cer-
tain loan program activities, including fees
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Busi-
ness Act: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received
from all such activities shall be credited to
this account, to remain available until ex-
pended, for carrying out these purposes with-
out further appropriations: Provided further,
That the Small Business Administration
may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed
$4,000,000 and may co-sponsor activities, each
in accordance with section 132(a) of division
K of Public Law 108–447, during fiscal year
2019: Provided further, That $6,100,000 shall be
available for the Loan Modernization and
Accounting System, to be available until
September 30, 2020: Provided further, That
$3,000,000 shall be for the Federal and State
Technology Partnership Program under sec-
tion 34 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
657d).
ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of programs sup-
porting entrepreneurial and small business
development, $247,700,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020: Provided, That
$131,000,000 shall be available to fund grants
for performance in fiscal year 2019 or fiscal
year 2020 as authorized by section 21 of the
Small Business Act: Provided further, That
$31,000,000 shall be for marketing, manage-
ment, and technical assistance under section
7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make
microloans under the microloan program:
Provided further, That $18,000,000 shall be
available for grants to States to carry out
export programs that assist small business
concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 649(l)).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$21,900,000.
OFFICE OF ADVOCACY
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
vocacy in carrying out the provisions of title
II of Public Law 94–305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et seq.)
and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), $9,120,000, to remain avail-
able until expended.
BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the cost of direct loans, $4,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such loans, shall be as defined in sec-
tion 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974: Provided further, That subject to section
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974,
during fiscal year 2019 commitments to guar-
antee loans under section 503 of the Small
Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not ex-
ceed $7,500,000,000: Provided further, That dur-
ing fiscal year 2019 commitments for general
business loans authorized under section 7(a)
of the Small Business Act shall not exceed
$30,000,000,000 for a combination of amor-
tizing term loans and the aggregated max-
imum line of credit provided by revolving
loans: Provided further, That during fiscal
year 2019 commitments for loans authorized
under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of
The Small Business Investment Act of 1958
(15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed
$7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during
fiscal year 2019 commitments to guarantee
loans for debentures under section 303(b) of
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958
shall not exceed $4,000,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That during fiscal year 2019, guarantees
of trust certificates authorized by section
5(g) of the Small Business Act shall not ex-
ceed a principal amount of $12,000,000,000. In
addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan
programs, $155,150,000, which may be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriations
for Salaries and Expenses.
DISASTER LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the direct loan program authorized by sec-
tion 7(b) of the Small Business Act,
$10,000,000, to be available until expended, of
which $1,000,000 is for the Office of Inspector
General of the Small Business Administra-
tion for audits and reviews of disaster loans
and the disaster loan programs and shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priations for the Office of Inspector General;
and of which $9,000,000 is for indirect admin-
istrative expenses for the direct loan pro-
gram, which may be transferred to and
merged with the appropriations for Salaries
and Expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—SMALL BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION AND TRANSFER OF
FUNDS)
SEC. 530. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Small Business Adminis-
tration in this Act may be transferred be-
tween such appropriations, but no such ap-
propriation shall be increased by more than
10 percent by any such transfers: Provided,
That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
SEC. 531. Of the unobligated balances from
prior year appropriations available under the
‘‘Business Loans Program Account’’ heading
for the Certified Development Company Pro-
gram, $50,000,000 are hereby permanently re-
scinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded under this section from amounts
that were designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to a con-
current resolution on the budget or the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 532. Section 12085 of Public Law 110–
246 is repealed.
SEC. 533. Not to exceed 3 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act for
the Small Business Administration under
the headings ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ and
‘‘Business Loans Program Account’’ may be
transferred to the Administration’s informa-
tion technology system modernization and
working capital fund (IT WCF), as authorized
by Section 1077(b)(1) of title X of division A
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2018, for the purposes speci-
fied in section 1077(b)(3) of such Act, upon
the advance approval of the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate: Provided, That amounts
transferred to the IT WCF under this section
shall remain available for obligation through
September 30, 2022.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
PAYMENT TO THE POSTAL SERVICE FUND
For payment to the Postal Service Fund
for revenue forgone on free and reduced rate
mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of
section 2401 of title 39, United States Code,
$55,235,000: Provided, That mail for overseas
voting and mail for the blind shall continue
to be free: Provided further, That 6-day deliv-
ery and rural delivery of mail shall continue
at not less than the 1983 level: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds made available
to the Postal Service by this Act shall be
used to implement any rule, regulation, or
policy of charging any officer or employee of
any State or local child support enforcement
agency, or any individual participating in a
State or local program of child support en-
forcement, a fee for information requested or
provided concerning an address of a postal
customer: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this Act shall be used to
consolidate or close small rural and other
small post offices.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$250,000,000, to be derived by transfer from
the Postal Service Fund and expended as au-
thorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal Ac-
countability and Enhancement Act (Public
Law 109–435).
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, including contract
reporting and other services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,515,000, of which $500,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That travel expenses of the judges
shall be paid upon the written certificate of
the judge.
TITLE VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 601. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 602. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 603. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through procurement contract pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those
contracts where such expenditures are a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1064 January 23, 2019
matter of public record and available for
public inspection, except where otherwise
provided under existing law, or under exist-
ing Executive order issued pursuant to exist-
ing law.
SEC. 604. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 605. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be available for any activ-
ity or for paying the salary of any Govern-
ment employee where funding an activity or
paying a salary to a Government employee
would result in a decision, determination,
rule, regulation, or policy that would pro-
hibit the enforcement of section 307 of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
SEC. 606. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with chap-
ter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 607. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating chapter 83 of
title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 608. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates a
new program; (2) eliminates a program,
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or
personnel for any program, project, or activ-
ity for which funds have been denied or re-
stricted by the Congress; (4) proposes to use
funds directed for a specific activity by the
Committee on Appropriations of either the
House of Representatives or the Senate for a
different purpose; (5) augments existing pro-
grams, projects, or activities in excess of
$5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; (6)
reduces existing programs, projects, or ac-
tivities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever
is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices,
programs, or activities unless prior approval
is received from the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That prior to any
significant reorganization, restructuring, re-
location, or closing of offices, programs, or
activities, each agency or entity funded in
this Act shall consult with the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate: Provided further, That
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act, each agency funded by
this Act shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate to establish
the baseline for application of reprogram-
ming and transfer authorities for the current
fiscal year: Provided further, That at a min-
imum the report shall include: (1) a table for
each appropriation with a separate column
to display the President’s budget request, ad-
justments made by Congress, adjustments
due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate,
and the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delin-
eation in the table for each appropriation
both by object class and program, project,
and activity as detailed in the budget appen-
dix for the respective appropriation; and (3)
an identification of items of special congres-
sional interest: Provided further, That the
amount appropriated or limited for salaries
and expenses for an agency shall be reduced
by $100,000 per day for each day after the re-
quired date that the report has not been sub-
mitted to the Congress.
SEC. 609. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate for approval prior to the expendi-
ture of such funds: Provided further, That
these requests shall be made in compliance
with reprogramming guidelines.
SEC. 610. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used by the Execu-
tive Office of the President to request—
(1) any official background investigation
report on any individual from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation; or
(2) a determination with respect to the
treatment of an organization as described in
section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 and exempt from taxation under sec-
tion 501(a) of such Code from the Department
of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue
Service.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply—
(1) in the case of an official background in-
vestigation report, if such individual has
given express written consent for such re-
quest not more than 6 months prior to the
date of such request and during the same
presidential administration; or
(2) if such request is required due to ex-
traordinary circumstances involving na-
tional security.
SEC. 611. The cost accounting standards
promulgated under chapter 15 of title 41,
United States Code shall not apply with re-
spect to a contract under the Federal Em-
ployees Health Benefits Program established
under chapter 89 of title 5, United States
Code.
SEC. 612. For the purpose of resolving liti-
gation and implementing any settlement
agreements regarding the nonforeign area
cost-of-living allowance program, the Office
of Personnel Management may accept and
utilize (without regard to any restriction on
unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an
Appropriations Act) funds made available to
the Office of Personnel Management pursu-
ant to court approval.
SEC. 613. No funds appropriated by this Act
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or
the administrative expenses in connection
with any health plan under the Federal em-
ployees health benefits program which pro-
vides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
SEC. 614. The provision of section 613 shall
not apply where the life of the mother would
be endangered if the fetus were carried to
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act
of rape or incest.
SEC. 615. In order to promote Government
access to commercial information tech-
nology, the restriction on purchasing non-
domestic articles, materials, and supplies set
forth in chapter 83 of title 41, United States
Code (popularly known as the Buy American
Act), shall not apply to the acquisition by
the Federal Government of information
technology (as defined in section 11101 of
title 40, United States Code), that is a com-
mercial item (as defined in section 103 of
title 41, United States Code).
SEC. 616. Notwithstanding section 1353 of
title 31, United States Code, no officer or em-
ployee of any regulatory agency or commis-
sion funded by this Act may accept on behalf
of that agency, nor may such agency or com-
mission accept, payment or reimbursement
from a non-Federal entity for travel, subsist-
ence, or related expenses for the purpose of
enabling an officer or employee to attend
and participate in any meeting or similar
function relating to the official duties of the
officer or employee when the entity offering
payment or reimbursement is a person or en-
tity subject to regulation by such agency or
commission, or represents a person or entity
subject to regulation by such agency or com-
mission, unless the person or entity is an or-
ganization described in section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from tax under section 501(a) of such
Code.
SEC. 617. Notwithstanding section 708 of
this Act, funds made available to the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission by this
or any other Act may be used for the inter-
agency funding and sponsorship of a joint ad-
visory committee to advise on emerging reg-
ulatory issues.
SEC. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, an Executive agency cov-
ered by this Act otherwise authorized to
enter into contracts for either leases or the
construction or alteration of real property
for office, meeting, storage, or other space
must consult with the General Services Ad-
ministration before issuing a solicitation for
offers of new leases or construction con-
tracts, and in the case of succeeding leases,
before entering into negotiations with the
current lessor.
(2) Any such agency with authority to
enter into an emergency lease may do so
during any period declared by the President
to require emergency leasing authority with
respect to such agency.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘Executive agency covered by this Act’’
means any Executive agency provided funds
by this Act, but does not include the General
Services Administration or the United
States Postal Service.
SEC. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the
following activities the amounts required
under current law:
(1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C.
102).
(2) Payments to—
(A) the Judicial Officers’ Retirement Fund
(28 U.S.C. 377(o));
(B) the Judicial Survivors’ Annuities Fund
(28 U.S.C. 376(c)); and
(C) the United States Court of Federal
Claims Judges’ Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C.
178(l)).
(3) Payment of Government contribu-
tions—
(A) with respect to the health benefits of
retired employees, as authorized by chapter
89 of title 5, United States Code, and the Re-
tired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act
(74 Stat. 849); and
(B) with respect to the life insurance bene-
fits for employees retiring after December
31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. ch. 87).
(4) Payment to finance the unfunded liabil-
ity of new and increased annuity benefits
under the Civil Service Retirement and Dis-
ability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
(5) Payment of annuities authorized to be
paid from the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund by statutory provisions
other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or
chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) Nothing in this section may be con-
strued to exempt any amount appropriated
by this section from any otherwise applica-
ble limitation on the use of funds contained
in this Act.
SEC. 620. In addition to amounts made
available in prior fiscal years, the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board
(Board) shall have authority to obligate
funds for the scholarship program estab-
lished by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1065
January 23, 2019
Oxley Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–204) in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the amount
of funds collected by the Board between Jan-
uary 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018, including
accrued interest, as a result of the assess-
ment of monetary penalties. Funds available
for obligation in fiscal year 2019 shall remain
available until expended. Beginning in fiscal
year 2020 and for each fiscal year thereafter,
monetary penalties collected pursuant to 15
U.S.C. 7215 shall be deposited in the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board ac-
count as discretionary offsetting receipts.
SEC. 621. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Federal Trade
Commission to complete the draft report en-
titled ‘‘Interagency Working Group on Food
Marketed to Children: Preliminary Proposed
Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-
Regulatory Efforts’’ unless the Interagency
Working Group on Food Marketed to Chil-
dren complies with Executive Order No.
13563.
SEC. 622. None of the funds in this Act may
be used for the Director of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management to award a contract,
enter an extension of, or exercise an option
on a contract to a contractor conducting the
final quality review processes for back-
ground investigation fieldwork services or
background investigation support services
that, as of the date of the award of the con-
tract, are being conducted by that con-
tractor.
SEC. 623. (a) The head of each executive
branch agency funded by this Act shall en-
sure that the Chief Information Officer of
the agency has the authority to participate
in decisions regarding the budget planning
process related to information technology.
(b) Amounts appropriated for any execu-
tive branch agency funded by this Act that
are available for information technology
shall be allocated within the agency, con-
sistent with the provisions of appropriations
Acts and budget guidelines and recommenda-
tions from the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, in such manner as
specified by, or approved by, the Chief Infor-
mation Officer of the agency in consultation
with the Chief Financial Officer of the agen-
cy and budget officials.
SEC. 624. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States
Code.
SEC. 625. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by a governmental
entity to require the disclosure by a provider
of electronic communication service to the
public or remote computing service of the
contents of a wire or electronic communica-
tion that is in electronic storage with the
provider (as such terms are defined in sec-
tions 2510 and 2711 of title 18, United States
Code) in a manner that violates the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
SEC. 626. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change the rules or regulations of the Com-
mission for universal service high-cost sup-
port for competitive eligible telecommuni-
cations carriers in a way that is inconsistent
with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section
54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as in effect on July 15, 2015: Provided,
That this section shall not prohibit the Com-
mission from considering, developing, or
adopting other support mechanisms as an al-
ternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
SEC. 627. No funds provided in this Act
shall be used to deny an Inspector General
funded under this Act timely access to any
records, documents, or other materials avail-
able to the department or agency over which
that Inspector General has responsibilities
under the Inspector General Act of 1978, or to
prevent or impede that Inspector General’s
access to such records, documents, or other
materials, under any provision of law, except
a provision of law that expressly refers to
the Inspector General and expressly limits
the Inspector General’s right of access. A de-
partment or agency covered by this section
shall provide its Inspector General with ac-
cess to all such records, documents, and
other materials in a timely manner. Each In-
spector General shall ensure compliance
with statutory limitations on disclosure rel-
evant to the information provided by the es-
tablishment over which that Inspector Gen-
eral has responsibilities under the Inspector
General Act of 1978. Each Inspector General
covered by this section shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 5
calendar days any failures to comply with
this requirement.
SEC. 628. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, adjudication ac-
tivities, or other law enforcement- or victim
assistance-related activity.
SEC. 629. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used by the Securities
and Exchange Commission to finalize, issue,
or implement any rule, regulation, or order
regarding the disclosure of political con-
tributions, contributions to tax exempt orga-
nizations, or dues paid to trade associations.
SEC. 630. None of the funds appropriated or
other-wise made available by this Act may
be used to pay award or incentive fees for
contractors whose performance has been
judged to be below satisfactory, behind
schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet
the basic requirements of a contract, unless
the Agency determines that any such devi-
ations are due to unforeseeable events, gov-
ernment-driven scope changes, or are not
significant within the overall scope of the
project and/or program and unless such
awards or incentive fees are consistent with
16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
SEC. 631. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used to pay for
travel and conference activities that result
in a total cost to an Executive branch de-
partment, agency, board or commission of
more than $500,000 at any single conference
unless the agency or entity determines that
such attendance is in the national interest
and advance notice is transmitted to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate that in-
cludes the basis of that determination.
(b) None of the funds made available under
this Act may be used to pay for the travel to
or attendance of more than 50 employees,
who are stationed in the United States, at
any single conference occurring outside the
United States unless the agency or entity de-
termines that such attendance is in the na-
tional interest and advance notice is trans-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate that includes the basis of that deter-
mination.
SEC. 632. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used for first-class or
business-class travel by the employees of ex-
ecutive branch agencies funded by this Act
in contravention of sections 301–10.122
through 301–10.125 of title 41, Code of Federal
Regulations.
SEC. 633. In addition to any amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for ex-
penses related to enhancements to
www.oversight.gov, $2,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be provided
for an additional amount for such purpose to
the Inspectors General Council Fund (Fund)
established pursuant to Section 11(c)(3)(B) of
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.), as amended: Provided, That these
amounts shall be in addition to any amounts
or any authority available to the Council of
the Inspectors General on Integrity and Effi-
ciency under section 11 of the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), as amended.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—GOVERNMENT-
WIDE
DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES, AND CORPORATIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 701. No department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States receiving ap-
propriated funds under this or any other Act
for fiscal year 2019 shall obligate or expend
any such funds, unless such department,
agency, or instrumentality has in place, and
will continue to administer in good faith, a
written policy designed to ensure that all of
its workplaces are free from the illegal use,
possession, or distribution of controlled sub-
stances (as defined in the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers
and employees of such department, agency,
or instrumentality.
SEC. 702. Unless otherwise specifically pro-
vided, the maximum amount allowable dur-
ing the current fiscal year in accordance
with subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United
States Code, for the purchase of any pas-
senger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, am-
bulances, law enforcement vehicles, protec-
tive vehicles, and undercover surveillance
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except
station wagons for which the maximum shall
be $19,997: Provided, That these limits may be
exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-
type vehicles: Provided further, That the lim-
its set forth in this section may not be ex-
ceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration
under the provisions of the Electric and Hy-
brid Vehicle Research, Development, and
Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further,
That the limits set forth in this section may
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant
to Public Law 101–549 over the cost of com-
parable conventionally fueled vehicles: Pro-
vided further, That the limits set forth in this
section shall not apply to any vehicle that is
a commercial item and which operates on al-
ternative fuel, including but not limited to
electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydro-
gen fuel cell vehicles.
SEC. 703. Appropriations of the executive
departments and independent establishments
for the current fiscal year available for ex-
penses of travel, or for the expenses of the
activity concerned, are hereby made avail-
able for quarters allowances and cost-of-liv-
ing allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C.
5922–5924.
SEC. 704. Unless otherwise specified in law
during the current fiscal year, no part of any
appropriation contained in this or any other
Act shall be used to pay the compensation of
any officer or employee of the Government
of the United States (including any agency
the majority of the stock of which is owned
by the Government of the United States)
whose post of duty is in the continental
United States unless such person: (1) is a cit-
izen of the United States; (2) is a person who
is lawfully admitted for permanent residence
and is seeking citizenship as outlined in 8
U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who is
admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or
is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1066 January 23, 2019
filed a declaration of intention to become a
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen
when eligible; or (4) is a person who owes al-
legiance to the United States: Provided, That
for purposes of this section, affidavits signed
by any such person shall be considered prima
facie evidence that the requirements of this
section with respect to his or her status are
being complied with: Provided further, That
for purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such
affidavits shall be submitted prior to em-
ployment and updated thereafter as nec-
essary: Provided further, That any person
making a false affidavit shall be guilty of a
felony, and upon conviction, shall be fined no
more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more
than 1 year, or both: Provided further, That
the above penal clause shall be in addition
to, and not in substitution for, any other
provisions of existing law: Provided further,
That any payment made to any officer or
employee contrary to the provisions of this
section shall be recoverable in action by the
Federal Government: Provided further, That
this section shall not apply to any person
who is an officer or employee of the Govern-
ment of the United States on the date of en-
actment of this Act, or to international
broadcasters employed by the Broadcasting
Board of Governors, or to temporary employ-
ment of translators, or to temporary em-
ployment in the field service (not to exceed
60 days) as a result of emergencies: Provided
further, That this section does not apply to
the employment as Wildland firefighters for
not more than 120 days of nonresident aliens
employed by the Department of the Interior
or the USDA Forest Service pursuant to an
agreement with another country.
SEC. 705. Appropriations available to any
department or agency during the current fis-
cal year for necessary expenses, including
maintenance or operating expenses, shall
also be available for payment to the General
Services Administration for charges for
space and services and those expenses of ren-
ovation and alteration of buildings and fa-
cilities which constitute public improve-
ments performed in accordance with the
Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479),
the Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86
Stat. 216), or other applicable law.
SEC. 706. In addition to funds provided in
this or any other Act, all Federal agencies
are authorized to receive and use funds re-
sulting from the sale of materials, including
Federal records disposed of pursuant to a
records schedule recovered through recycling
or waste prevention programs. Such funds
shall be available until expended for the fol-
lowing purposes:
(1) Acquisition, waste reduction and pre-
vention, and recycling programs as described
in Executive Order No. 13693 (March 19, 2015),
including any such programs adopted prior
to the effective date of the Executive order.
(2) Other Federal agency environmental
management programs, including, but not
limited to, the development and implemen-
tation of hazardous waste management and
pollution prevention programs.
(3) Other employee programs as authorized
by law or as deemed appropriate by the head
of the Federal agency.
SEC. 707. Funds made available by this or
any other Act for administrative expenses in
the current fiscal year of the corporations
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31,
United States Code, shall be available, in ad-
dition to objects for which such funds are
otherwise available, for rent in the District
of Columbia; services in accordance with 5
U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under
this head, all the provisions of which shall be
applicable to the expenditure of such funds
unless otherwise specified in the Act by
which they are made available: Provided,
That in the event any functions budgeted as
administrative expenses are subsequently
transferred to or paid from other funds, the
limitations on administrative expenses shall
be correspondingly reduced.
SEC. 708. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for interagency financing of boards
(except Federal Executive Boards), commis-
sions, councils, committees, or similar
groups (whether or not they are interagency
entities) which do not have a prior and spe-
cific statutory approval to receive financial
support from more than one agency or in-
strumentality.
SEC. 709. None of the funds made available
pursuant to the provisions of this or any
other Act shall be used to implement, admin-
ister, or enforce any regulation which has
been disapproved pursuant to a joint resolu-
tion duly adopted in accordance with the ap-
plicable law of the United States.
SEC. 710. During the period in which the
head of any department or agency, or any
other officer or civilian employee of the Fed-
eral Government appointed by the President
of the United States, holds office, no funds
may be obligated or expended in excess of
$5,000 to furnish or redecorate the office of
such department head, agency head, officer,
or employee, or to purchase furniture or
make improvements for any such office, un-
less advance notice of such furnishing or re-
decoration is transmitted to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate. For the purposes of
this section, the term ‘‘office’’ shall include
the entire suite of offices assigned to the in-
dividual, as well as any other space used pri-
marily by the individual or the use of which
is directly controlled by the individual.
SEC. 711. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of national security and
emergency preparedness telecommunications
initiatives which benefit multiple Federal
departments, agencies, or entities, as pro-
vided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6,
2012).
SEC. 712. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended by any department, agen-
cy, or other instrumentality of the Federal
Government to pay the salaries or expenses
of any individual appointed to a position of
a confidential or policy-determining char-
acter that is excepted from the competitive
service under section 3302 of title 5, United
States Code, (pursuant to schedule C of sub-
part C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of
Federal Regulations) unless the head of the
applicable department, agency, or other in-
strumentality employing such schedule C in-
dividual certifies to the Director of the Of-
fice of Personnel Management that the
schedule C position occupied by the indi-
vidual was not created solely or primarily in
order to detail the individual to the White
House.
(b) The provisions of this section shall not
apply to Federal employees or members of
the armed forces detailed to or from an ele-
ment of the intelligence community (as that
term is defined under section 3(4) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003(4))).
SEC. 713. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for the payment of the salary of
any officer or employee of the Federal Gov-
ernment, who—
(1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or
threatens to prohibit or prevent, any other
officer or employee of the Federal Govern-
ment from having any direct oral or written
communication or contact with any Member,
committee, or subcommittee of the Congress
in connection with any matter pertaining to
the employment of such other officer or em-
ployee or pertaining to the department or
agency of such other officer or employee in
any way, irrespective of whether such com-
munication or contact is at the initiative of
such other officer or employee or in response
to the request or inquiry of such Member,
committee, or subcommittee; or
(2) removes, suspends from duty without
pay, demotes, reduces in rank, seniority, sta-
tus, pay, or performance or efficiency rating,
denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns,
transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in re-
gard to any employment right, entitlement,
or benefit, or any term or condition of em-
ployment of, any other officer or employee
of the Federal Government, or attempts or
threatens to commit any of the foregoing ac-
tions with respect to such other officer or
employee, by reason of any communication
or contact of such other officer or employee
with any Member, committee, or sub-
committee of the Congress as described in
paragraph (1).
SEC. 714. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended for any employee training
that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 715. No part of any funds appropriated
in this or any other Act shall be used by an
agency of the executive branch, other than
for normal and recognized executive-legisla-
tive relationships, for publicity or propa-
ganda purposes, and for the preparation, dis-
tribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, book-
let, publication, radio, television, or film
presentation designed to support or defeat
legislation pending before the Congress, ex-
cept in presentation to the Congress itself.
SEC. 716. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act may be used by an
agency to provide a Federal employee’s
home address to any labor organization ex-
cept when the employee has authorized such
disclosure or when such disclosure has been
ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 717. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pro-
vide any non-public information such as
mailing, telephone or electronic mailing
lists to any person or any organization out-
side of the Federal Government without the
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate.
SEC. 718. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be used
directly or indirectly, including by private
contractor, for publicity or propaganda pur-
poses within the United States not here-
tofore authorized by Congress.
SEC. 719. (a) In this section, the term
‘‘agency’’—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1067
January 23, 2019
(1) means an Executive agency, as defined
under 5 U.S.C. 105; and
(2) includes a military department, as de-
fined under section 102 of such title, the
United States Postal Service, and the Postal
Regulatory Commission.
(b) Unless authorized in accordance with
law or regulations to use such time for other
purposes, an employee of an agency shall use
official time in an honest effort to perform
official duties. An employee not under a
leave system, including a Presidential ap-
pointee exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has
an obligation to expend an honest effort and
a reasonable proportion of such employee’s
time in the performance of official duties.
SEC. 720. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, funds made avail-
able for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act to any department or agency,
which is a member of the Federal Account-
ing Standards Advisory Board (FASAB),
shall be available to finance an appropriate
share of FASAB administrative costs.
SEC. 721. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, the head of each
Executive department and agency is hereby
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ with the approval of the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget,
funds made available for the current fiscal
year by this or any other Act, including re-
bates from charge card and other contracts:
Provided, That these funds shall be adminis-
tered by the Administrator of General Serv-
ices to support Government-wide and other
multi-agency financial, information tech-
nology, procurement, and other management
innovations, initiatives, and activities, in-
cluding improving coordination and reducing
duplication, as approved by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, in
consultation with the appropriate inter-
agency and multi-agency groups designated
by the Director (including the President’s
Management Council for overall manage-
ment improvement initiatives, the Chief Fi-
nancial Officers Council for financial man-
agement initiatives, the Chief Information
Officers Council for information technology
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers
Council for human capital initiatives, the
Chief Acquisition Officers Council for pro-
curement initiatives, and the Performance
Improvement Council for performance im-
provement initiatives): Provided further,
That the total funds transferred or reim-
bursed shall not exceed $15,000,000 to improve
coordination, reduce duplication, and for
other activities related to Federal Govern-
ment Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C.
1120, and not to exceed $17,000,000 for Govern-
ment-Wide innovations, initiatives, and ac-
tivities: Provided further, That the funds
transferred to or for reimbursement of ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ during fiscal year 2019 shall re-
main available for obligation through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That such
transfers or reimbursements may only be
made after 15 days following notification of
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate by
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
SEC. 722. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, a woman may breastfeed her
child at any location in a Federal building or
on Federal property, if the woman and her
child are otherwise authorized to be present
at the location.
SEC. 723. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of specific projects, work-
shops, studies, and similar efforts to carry
out the purposes of the National Science and
Technology Council (authorized by Execu-
tive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple
Federal departments, agencies, or entities:
Provided, That the Office of Management and
Budget shall provide a report describing the
budget of and resources connected with the
National Science and Technology Council to
the Committees on Appropriations, the
House Committee on Science and Tech-
nology, and the Senate Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation 90 days
after enactment of this Act.
SEC. 724. Any request for proposals, solici-
tation, grant application, form, notification,
press release, or other publications involving
the distribution of Federal funds shall com-
ply with any relevant requirements in part
200 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations:
Provided, That this section shall apply to di-
rect payments, formula funds, and grants re-
ceived by a State receiving Federal funds.
SEC. 725. (a) PROHIBITION OF FEDERAL AGEN-
CY MONITORING OF INDIVIDUALS’ INTERNET
USE.—None of the funds made available in
this or any other Act may be used by any
Federal agency—
(1) to collect, review, or create any aggre-
gation of data, derived from any means, that
includes any personally identifiable informa-
tion relating to an individual’s access to or
use of any Federal Government Internet site
of the agency; or
(2) to enter into any agreement with a
third party (including another government
agency) to collect, review, or obtain any ag-
gregation of data, derived from any means,
that includes any personally identifiable in-
formation relating to an individual’s access
to or use of any nongovernmental Internet
site.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitations estab-
lished in subsection (a) shall not apply to—
(1) any record of aggregate data that does
not identify particular persons;
(2) any voluntary submission of personally
identifiable information;
(3) any action taken for law enforcement,
regulatory, or supervisory purposes, in ac-
cordance with applicable law; or
(4) any action described in subsection (a)(1)
that is a system security action taken by the
operator of an Internet site and is nec-
essarily incident to providing the Internet
site services or to protecting the rights or
property of the provider of the Internet site.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this
section:
(1) The term ‘‘regulatory’’ means agency
actions to implement, interpret or enforce
authorities provided in law.
(2) The term ‘‘supervisory’’ means exami-
nations of the agency’s supervised institu-
tions, including assessing safety and sound-
ness, overall financial condition, manage-
ment practices and policies and compliance
with applicable standards as provided in law.
SEC. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used to enter into or
renew a contract which includes a provision
providing prescription drug coverage, except
where the contract also includes a provision
for contraceptive coverage.
(b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a
contract with—
(1) any of the following religious plans:
(A) Personal Care’s HMO; and
(B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
(2) any existing or future plan, if the car-
rier for the plan objects to such coverage on
the basis of religious beliefs.
(c) In implementing this section, any plan
that enters into or renews a contract under
this section may not subject any individual
to discrimination on the basis that the indi-
vidual refuses to prescribe or otherwise pro-
vide for contraceptives because such activi-
ties would be contrary to the individual’s re-
ligious beliefs or moral convictions.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to require coverage of abortion or
abortion-related services.
SEC. 727. The United States is committed
to ensuring the health of its Olympic, Pan
American, and Paralympic athletes, and sup-
ports the strict adherence to anti-doping in
sport through testing, adjudication, edu-
cation, and research as performed by nation-
ally recognized oversight authorities.
SEC. 728. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds appropriated for official
travel to Federal departments and agencies
may be used by such departments and agen-
cies, if consistent with Office of Management
and Budget Circular A–126 regarding official
travel for Government personnel, to partici-
pate in the fractional aircraft ownership
pilot program.
SEC. 729. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds appropriated or
made available under this or any other ap-
propriations Act may be used to implement
or enforce restrictions or limitations on the
Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Pro-
gram, or to implement the proposed regula-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part
300 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regula-
tions, published in the Federal Register, vol-
ume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (re-
lating to the detail of executive branch em-
ployees to the legislative branch).
SEC. 730. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no executive branch agency shall
purchase, construct, or lease any additional
facilities, except within or contiguous to ex-
isting locations, to be used for the purpose of
conducting Federal law enforcement train-
ing without the advance approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, except
that the Federal Law Enforcement Training
Center is authorized to obtain the temporary
use of additional facilities by lease, contract,
or other agreement for training which can-
not be accommodated in existing Center fa-
cilities.
SEC. 731. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this or any other Act may be used by an ex-
ecutive branch agency to produce any pre-
packaged news story intended for broadcast
or distribution in the United States, unless
the story includes a clear notification within
the text or audio of the prepackaged news
story that the prepackaged news story was
prepared or funded by that executive branch
agency.
SEC. 732. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
section 552a of title 5, United States Code
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and
regulations implementing that section.
SEC. 733. (a) IN GENERAL.—None of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used for
any Federal Government contract with any
foreign incorporated entity which is treated
as an inverted domestic corporation under
section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary of
such an entity.
(b) WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any Secretary shall waive
subsection (a) with respect to any Federal
Government contract under the authority of
such Secretary if the Secretary determines
that the waiver is required in the interest of
national security.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Any Secretary
issuing a waiver under paragraph (1) shall re-
port such issuance to Congress.
(c) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not
apply to any Federal Government contract
entered into before the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, or to any task order issued
pursuant to such contract.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1068 January 23, 2019
SEC. 734. During fiscal year 2019, for each
employee who—
(1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or
8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code; or
(2) retires under any other provision of
subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of
such title 5 and receives a payment as an in-
centive to separate, the separating agency
shall remit to the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund an amount equal to the
Office of Personnel Management’s average
unit cost of processing a retirement claim
for the preceding fiscal year. Such amounts
shall be available until expended to the Of-
fice of Personnel Management and shall be
deemed to be an administrative expense
under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United
States Code.
SEC. 735. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this or any other Act may be used to
recommend or require any entity submitting
an offer for a Federal contract to disclose
any of the following information as a condi-
tion of submitting the offer:
(1) Any payment consisting of a contribu-
tion, expenditure, independent expenditure,
or disbursement for an electioneering com-
munication that is made by the entity, its
officers or directors, or any of its affiliates
or subsidiaries to a candidate for election for
Federal office or to a political committee, or
that is otherwise made with respect to any
election for Federal office.
(2) Any disbursement of funds (other than
a payment described in paragraph (1)) made
by the entity, its officers or directors, or any
of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any person
with the intent or the reasonable expecta-
tion that the person will use the funds to
make a payment described in paragraph (1).
(b) In this section, each of the terms ‘‘con-
tribution’’, ‘‘expenditure’’, ‘‘independent ex-
penditure’’, ‘‘electioneering communica-
tion’’, ‘‘candidate’’, ‘‘election’’, and ‘‘Federal
office’’ has the meaning given such term in
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).
SEC. 736. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pay
for the painting of a portrait of an officer or
employee of the Federal government, includ-
ing the President, the Vice President, a
member of Congress (including a Delegate or
a Resident Commissioner to Congress), the
head of an executive branch agency (as de-
fined in section 133 of title 41, United States
Code), or the head of an office of the legisla-
tive branch.
SEC. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, and except as otherwise
provided in this section, no part of any of the
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2019, by
this or any other Act, may be used to pay
any prevailing rate employee described in
section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States
Code—
(A) during the period from the date of expi-
ration of the limitation imposed by the com-
parable section for the previous fiscal years
until the normal effective date of the appli-
cable wage survey adjustment that is to take
effect in fiscal year 2019, in an amount that
exceeds the rate payable for the applicable
grade and step of the applicable wage sched-
ule in accordance with such section; and
(B) during the period consisting of the re-
mainder of fiscal year 2019, in an amount
that exceeds, as a result of a wage survey ad-
justment, the rate payable under subpara-
graph (A) by more than the sum of—
(i) the percentage adjustment taking effect
in fiscal year 2019 under section 5303 of title
5, United States Code, in the rates of pay
under the General Schedule; and
(ii) the difference between the overall aver-
age percentage of the locality-based com-
parability payments taking effect in fiscal
year 2019 under section 5304 of such title
(whether by adjustment or otherwise), and
the overall average percentage of such pay-
ments which was effective in the previous
fiscal year under such section.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no prevailing rate employee described in
subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2)
of title 5, United States Code, and no em-
ployee covered by section 5348 of such title,
may be paid during the periods for which
paragraph (1) is in effect at a rate that ex-
ceeds the rates that would be payable under
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable
to such employee.
(3) For the purposes of this subsection, the
rates payable to an employee who is covered
by this subsection and who is paid from a
schedule not in existence on September 30,
2018, shall be determined under regulations
prescribed by the Office of Personnel Man-
agement.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, rates of premium pay for employees sub-
ject to this subsection may not be changed
from the rates in effect on September 30,
2018, except to the extent determined by the
Office of Personnel Management to be con-
sistent with the purpose of this subsection.
(5) This subsection shall apply with respect
to pay for service performed after September
30, 2018.
(6) For the purpose of administering any
provision of law (including any rule or regu-
lation that provides premium pay, retire-
ment, life insurance, or any other employee
benefit) that requires any deduction or con-
tribution, or that imposes any requirement
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary
or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay
payable after the application of this sub-
section shall be treated as the rate of salary
or basic pay.
(7) Nothing in this subsection shall be con-
sidered to permit or require the payment to
any employee covered by this subsection at a
rate in excess of the rate that would be pay-
able were this subsection not in effect.
(8) The Office of Personnel Management
may provide for exceptions to the limita-
tions imposed by this subsection if the Office
determines that such exceptions are nec-
essary to ensure the recruitment or reten-
tion of qualified employees.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be—
(1) not less than the percentage received by
employees in the same location whose rates
of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the
statutory pay systems under sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code: Pro-
vided, That prevailing rate employees at lo-
cations where there are no employees whose
pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and
prevailing rate employees described in sec-
tion 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code,
shall be considered to be located in the pay
locality designated as ‘‘Rest of United
States’’ pursuant to section 5304 of title 5,
United States Code, for purposes of this sub-
section; and
(2) effective as of the first day of the first
applicable pay period beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2018.
SEC. 738. (a) The head of any Executive
branch department, agency, board, commis-
sion, or office funded by this or any other ap-
propriations Act shall submit annual reports
to the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, regarding the costs and contracting
procedures related to each conference held
by any such department, agency, board, com-
mission, or office during fiscal year 2019 for
which the cost to the United States Govern-
ment was more than $100,000.
(b) Each report submitted shall include, for
each conference described in subsection (a)
held during the applicable period—
(1) a description of its purpose;
(2) the number of participants attending;
(3) a detailed statement of the costs to the
United States Government, including—
(A) the cost of any food or beverages;
(B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
(C) the cost of employee or contractor
travel to and from the conference; and
(D) a discussion of the methodology used
to determine which costs relate to the con-
ference; and
(4) a description of the contracting proce-
dures used including—
(A) whether contracts were awarded on a
competitive basis; and
(B) a discussion of any cost comparison
conducted by the departmental component
or office in evaluating potential contractors
for the conference.
(c) Within 15 days after the end of a quar-
ter, the head of any such department, agen-
cy, board, commission, or office shall notify
the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, of the date, location, and number of em-
ployees attending a conference held by any
Executive branch department, agency, board,
commission, or office funded by this or any
other appropriations Act during fiscal year
2019 for which the cost to the United States
Government was more than $20,000.
(d) A grant or contract funded by amounts
appropriated by this or any other appropria-
tions Act may not be used for the purpose of
defraying the costs of a conference described
in subsection (c) that is not directly and pro-
grammatically related to the purpose for
which the grant or contract was awarded,
such as a conference held in connection with
planning, training, assessment, review, or
other routine purposes related to a project
funded by the grant or contract.
(e) None of the funds made available in this
or any other appropriations Act may be used
for travel and conference activities that are
not in compliance with Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Memorandum M–12–12
dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revi-
sions to that memorandum.
SEC. 739. None of the funds made available
in this or any other appropriations Act may
be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce
funding for a program, project, or activity as
proposed in the President’s budget request
for a fiscal year until such proposed change
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation
Act, or unless such change is made pursuant
to the reprogramming or transfer provisions
of this or any other appropriations Act.
SEC. 740. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to im-
plement, administer, enforce, or apply the
rule entitled ‘‘Competitive Area’’ published
by the Office of Personnel Management in
the Federal Register on April 15, 2008 (73 Fed.
Reg. 20180 et seq.).
SEC. 741. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used to begin or announce
a study or public-private competition re-
garding the conversion to contractor per-
formance of any function performed by Fed-
eral employees pursuant to Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Circular A–76 or any other
administrative regulation, directive, or pol-
icy.
SEC. 742. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be available for a contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement with an en-
tity that requires employees or contractors
of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste,
or abuse to sign internal confidentiality
agreements or statements prohibiting or
otherwise restricting such employees or con-
tractors from lawfully reporting such waste,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1069
January 23, 2019
fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative
or law enforcement representative of a Fed-
eral department or agency authorized to re-
ceive such information.
(b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall
not contravene requirements applicable to
Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other
form issued by a Federal department or
agency governing the nondisclosure of classi-
fied information.
SEC. 743. (a) No funds appropriated in this
or any other Act may be used to implement
or enforce the agreements in Standard
Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government or any
other nondisclosure policy, form, or agree-
ment if such policy, form, or agreement does
not contain the following provisions: ‘‘These
provisions are consistent with and do not su-
persede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the
employee obligations, rights, or liabilities
created by existing statute or Executive
order relating to (1) classified information,
(2) communications to Congress, (3) the re-
porting to an Inspector General of a viola-
tion of any law, rule, or regulation, or mis-
management, a gross waste of funds, an
abuse of authority, or a substantial and spe-
cific danger to public health or safety, or (4)
any other whistleblower protection. The
definitions, requirements, obligations,
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by
controlling Executive orders and statutory
provisions are incorporated into this agree-
ment and are controlling.’’: Provided, That
notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, a nondisclosure policy form or
agreement that is to be executed by a person
connected with the conduct of an intel-
ligence or intelligence-related activity,
other than an employee or officer of the
United States Government, may contain pro-
visions appropriate to the particular activity
for which such document is to be used. Such
form or agreement shall, at a minimum, re-
quire that the person will not disclose any
classified information received in the course
of such activity unless specifically author-
ized to do so by the United States Govern-
ment. Such nondisclosure forms shall also
make it clear that they do not bar disclo-
sures to Congress, or to an authorized offi-
cial of an executive agency or the Depart-
ment of Justice, that are essential to report-
ing a substantial violation of law.
(b) A nondisclosure agreement may con-
tinue to be implemented and enforced not-
withstanding subsection (a) if it complies
with the requirements for such agreement
that were in effect when the agreement was
entered into.
(c) No funds appropriated in this or any
other Act may be used to implement or en-
force any agreement entered into during fis-
cal year 2014 which does not contain substan-
tially similar language to that required in
subsection (a).
SEC. 744. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that has any
unpaid Federal tax liability that has been as-
sessed, for which all judicial and administra-
tive remedies have been exhausted or have
lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely
manner pursuant to an agreement with the
authority responsible for collecting the tax
liability, where the awarding agency is
aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a
Federal agency has considered suspension or
debarment of the corporation and has made
a determination that this further action is
not necessary to protect the interests of the
Government.
SEC. 745. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that was con-
victed of a felony criminal violation under
any Federal law within the preceding 24
months, where the awarding agency is aware
of the conviction, unless a Federal agency
has considered suspension or debarment of
the corporation and has made a determina-
tion that this further action is not necessary
to protect the interests of the Government.
SEC. 746. (a) During fiscal year 2019, on the
date on which a request is made for a trans-
fer of funds in accordance with section 1017
of Public Law 111–203, the Bureau of Con-
sumer Financial Protection shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives, and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate of such request.
(b) Any notification required by this sec-
tion shall be made available on the Bureau’s
public Web site.
SEC. 747. If, for fiscal year 2019, new budget
authority provided in appropriations Acts
exceeds the discretionary spending limit for
any category set forth in section 251(c) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 due to estimating dif-
ferences with the Congressional Budget Of-
fice, an adjustment to the discretionary
spending limit in such category for fiscal
year 2019 shall be made by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget in the
amount of the excess but the total of all
such adjustments shall not exceed 0.2 per-
cent of the sum of the adjusted discretionary
spending limits for all categories for that fis-
cal year.
SEC. 748. (a) The adjustment in rates of
basic pay for employees under the statutory
pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year
2019 under section 5303 of title 5, United
States Code, shall be an increase of 1.4 per-
cent, and the overall average percentage of
the adjustments taking effect in such fiscal
year under sections 5304 and 5304a of such
title 5 shall be an increase of 0.5 percent
(with comparability payments to be deter-
mined and allocated among pay localities by
the President). All adjustments under this
subsection shall be effective as of the first
day of the first applicable pay period begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2019.
(b) Notwithstanding section 737, the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be no less than
the percentages in subsection (a) as employ-
ees in the same location whose rates of basic
pay are adjusted pursuant to the statutory
pay systems under section 5303, 5304, and
5304a of title 5, United States Code. Pre-
vailing rate employees at locations where
there are no employees whose pay is in-
creased pursuant to sections 5303, 5304, and
5304a of such title 5 and prevailing rate em-
ployees described in section 5343(a)(5) of such
title 5 shall be considered to be located in
the pay locality designated as ″Rest of U.S.″
pursuant to section 5304 of such title 5 for
purposes of this subsection.
(c) Funds used to carry out this section
shall be paid from appropriations, which are
made to each applicable department or agen-
cy for salaries and expenses for fiscal year
2019.
SEC. 749. (a) Notwithstanding the official
rate adjusted under section 104 of title 3,
United States Code, the rate payable to the
Vice President during calendar year 2019
shall be 1.9 percent above the rate payable to
the Vice President on December 31, 2018, as
limited under section 738 of division E of the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–141).
(b) Notwithstanding the official rate ad-
justed under section 5318 of title 5, United
States Code, or any other provision of law,
the payable rate for an employee serving in
an Executive Schedule position, or in a posi-
tion for which the rate of pay is fixed by
statute at an Executive Schedule rate, shall
be increased by 1.9 percent (relative to the
preexisting rate actually payable) at the
time the official rate is adjusted in January
2019. Such an employee may receive no other
pay increase during calendar year 2019, ex-
cept as provided in subsection (i).
(c) Notwithstanding section 401 of the For-
eign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96–465)
or any other provision of law, a chief of mis-
sion or ambassador at large is subject to sub-
section (b) in the same manner as other em-
ployees who are paid at an Executive Sched-
ule rate.
(d)(1) This subsection applies to—
(A) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Ex-
ecutive Service paid a rate of basic pay at or
above the official rate for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule; or
(B) a limited term appointee or limited
emergency appointee in the Senior Execu-
tive Service serving under a political ap-
pointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or
above the official rate for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule.
(2) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383
of title 5, United States Code, an employee
described in paragraph (1) who is serving at
the time official rates of the Executive
Schedule are adjusted may receive a single
increase in the employee’s pay rate of no
more than 1.9 percent during calendar year
2019, subject to the normally applicable pay
rules and pay limitations in effect on Decem-
ber 31, 2013, after those pay limitations are
increased by 1.9 percent (after applicable
rounding). Such an employee may receive no
other pay increase during calendar year 2019,
except as provided in subsection (i).
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, any employee paid a rate of basic pay
(including any locality-based payments
under section 5304 of title 5, United States
Code, or similar authority) at or above the
official rate for level IV of the Executive
Schedule who serves under a political ap-
pointment, and who is serving at the time of-
ficial rates of the Executive Schedule are ad-
justed, may receive a single increase in the
employee’s pay rate of no more than 1.9 per-
cent during calendar year 2019, subject to the
normally applicable pay rules and pay limi-
tations in effect on December 31, 2013, after
those pay limitations are increased by 1.9
percent (after applicable rounding). Such an
employee may receive no other pay increase
during calendar year 2019, except as provided
in subsection (i). This subsection does not
apply to employees in the General Schedule
pay system or the Foreign Service pay sys-
tem, to employees appointed under section
3161 of title 5, United States Code, or to em-
ployees in another pay system whose posi-
tion would be classified at GS–15 or below if
chapter 51 of title 5, United States Code, ap-
plied to them.
(f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e)
shall prevent employees who do not serve
under a political appointment from receiving
pay increases as otherwise provided under
applicable law.
(g) This section does not apply to an indi-
vidual who makes an election to retain Sen-
ior Executive Service basic pay under sec-
tion 3392(c) of title 5, United States Code, for
such time as that election is in effect.
(h) This section does not apply to an indi-
vidual who makes an election to retain Sen-
ior Foreign Service pay entitlements under
section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of
1980 (Public Law 96–465) for such time as that
election is in effect.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1070 January 23, 2019
(i) Notwithstanding subsections (b)
through (e), an employee in a covered posi-
tion may receive a pay rate increase upon an
authorized movement to a different covered
position only if that new position has higher-
level duties and a pre-established level or
range of pay higher than the level or range
for the position held immediately before the
movement. Any such increase must be based
on the rates of pay and applicable pay limi-
tations in effect on December 31, 2013, after
those rates and pay limitations are increased
by 1.9 percent (after applicable rounding).
(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, for an individual who is newly appointed
to a covered position during the period of
time subject to this section, the initial pay
rate shall be based on the rates of pay and
applicable pay limitations in effect on De-
cember 31, 2013, after those rates and pay
limitations are increased by 1.9 percent
(after applicable rounding).
(k) If an employee affected by this section
is subject to a biweekly pay period that be-
gins in calendar year 2019 but ends in cal-
endar year 2020, the bar on the employee’s
receipt of pay rate increases shall apply
through the end of that pay period.
(l) For the purpose of this section, the
term ‘‘covered position’’ means a position
occupied by an employee whose pay is re-
stricted under this section.
(m) This section takes effect on the first
day of the first applicable pay period begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2019.
SEC. 750. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in any title other than title IV or VIII
shall not apply to such title IV or VIII.
TITLE VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 801. There are appropriated from the
applicable funds of the District of Columbia
such sums as may be necessary for making
refunds and for the payment of legal settle-
ments or judgments that have been entered
against the District of Columbia govern-
ment.
SEC. 802. None of the Federal funds pro-
vided in this Act shall be used for publicity
or propaganda purposes or implementation
of any policy including boycott designed to
support or defeat legislation pending before
Congress or any State legislature.
SEC. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds pro-
vided under this Act to the agencies funded
by this Act, both Federal and District gov-
ernment agencies, that remain available for
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019,
or provided from any accounts in the Treas-
ury of the United States derived by the col-
lection of fees available to the agencies fund-
ed by this Act, shall be available for obliga-
tion or expenditures for an agency through a
reprogramming of funds which—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or re-
sponsibility center;
(3) establishes or changes allocations spe-
cifically denied, limited or increased under
this Act;
(4) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any program, project, or responsi-
bility center for which funds have been de-
nied or restricted;
(5) re-establishes any program or project
previously deferred through reprogramming;
(6) augments any existing program,
project, or responsibility center through a
reprogramming of funds in excess of
$3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
(7) increases by 20 percent or more per-
sonnel assigned to a specific program,
project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
(b) The District of Columbia government is
authorized to approve and execute re-
programming and transfer requests of local
funds under this title through November 7,
2019.
SEC. 804. None of the Federal funds pro-
vided in this Act may be used by the District
of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses,
or other costs associated with the offices of
United States Senator or United States Rep-
resentative under section 4(d) of the District
of Columbia Statehood Constitutional Con-
vention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. Law 3–171;
D.C. Official Code, sec. 1–123).
SEC. 805. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, none of the funds made avail-
able by this Act or by any other Act may be
used to provide any officer or employee of
the District of Columbia with an official ve-
hicle unless the officer or employee uses the
vehicle only in the performance of the offi-
cer’s or employee’s official duties. For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘official du-
ties’’ does not include travel between the of-
ficer’s or employee’s residence and work-
place, except in the case of—
(1) an officer or employee of the Metropoli-
tan Police Department who resides in the
District of Columbia or is otherwise des-
ignated by the Chief of the Department;
(2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an
officer or employee of the District of Colum-
bia Fire and Emergency Medical Services
Department who resides in the District of
Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
(3) at the discretion of the Director of the
Department of Corrections, an officer or em-
ployee of the District of Columbia Depart-
ment of Corrections who resides in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and is on call 24 hours a
day;
(4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical
Examiner, an officer or employee of the Of-
fice of the Chief Medical Examiner who re-
sides in the District of Columbia and is on
call 24 hours a day;
(5) at the discretion of the Director of the
Homeland Security and Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, an officer or employee of the
Homeland Security and Emergency Manage-
ment Agency who resides in the District of
Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
(6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia;
and
(7) the Chairman of the Council of the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
SEC. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used by the Dis-
trict of Columbia Attorney General or any
other officer or entity of the District govern-
ment to provide assistance for any petition
drive or civil action which seeks to require
Congress to provide for voting representa-
tion in Congress for the District of Colum-
bia.
(b) Nothing in this section bars the Dis-
trict of Columbia Attorney General from re-
viewing or commenting on briefs in private
lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of
the District government regarding such law-
suits.
SEC. 807. None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used to distribute
any needle or syringe for the purpose of pre-
venting the spread of blood borne pathogens
in any location that has been determined by
the local public health or local law enforce-
ment authorities to be inappropriate for
such distribution.
SEC. 808. Nothing in this Act may be con-
strued to prevent the Council or Mayor of
the District of Columbia from addressing the
issue of the provision of contraceptive cov-
erage by health insurance plans, but it is the
intent of Congress that any legislation en-
acted on such issue should include a ‘‘con-
science clause’’ which provides exceptions
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
SEC. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used to enact or
carry out any law, rule, or regulation to le-
galize or otherwise reduce penalties associ-
ated with the possession, use, or distribution
of any schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.)
or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
(b) No funds available for obligation or ex-
penditure by the District of Columbia gov-
ernment under any authority may be used to
enact any law, rule, or regulation to legalize
or otherwise reduce penalties associated
with the possession, use, or distribution of
any schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.)
or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for
recreational purposes.
SEC. 810. No funds available for obligation
or expenditure by the District of Columbia
government under any authority shall be ex-
pended for any abortion except where the life
of the mother would be endangered if the
fetus were carried to term or where the preg-
nancy is the result of an act of rape or in-
cest.
SEC. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the
Council of the District of Columbia, a re-
vised appropriated funds operating budget in
the format of the budget that the District of
Columbia government submitted pursuant to
section 442 of the District of Columbia Home
Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1–204.42),
for all agencies of the District of Columbia
government for fiscal year 2019 that is in the
total amount of the approved appropriation
and that realigns all budgeted data for per-
sonal services and other-than-personal serv-
ices, respectively, with anticipated actual
expenditures.
(b) This section shall apply only to an
agency for which the Chief Financial Officer
for the District of Columbia certifies that a
reallocation is required to address unantici-
pated changes in program requirements.
SEC. 812. No later than 30 calendar days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the
Council for the District of Columbia, a re-
vised appropriated funds operating budget
for the District of Columbia Public Schools
that aligns schools budgets to actual enroll-
ment. The revised appropriated funds budget
shall be in the format of the budget that the
District of Columbia government submitted
pursuant to section 442 of the District of Co-
lumbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code,
sec. 1–204.42).
SEC. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this
Act as operating funds may be transferred to
the District of Columbia’s enterprise and
capital funds and such amounts, once trans-
ferred, shall retain appropriation authority
consistent with the provisions of this Act.
(b) The District of Columbia government is
authorized to reprogram or transfer for oper-
ating expenses any local funds transferred or
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal
years from operating funds to capital funds,
and such amounts, once transferred or repro-
grammed, shall retain appropriation author-
ity consistent with the provisions of this
Act.
(c) The District of Columbia government
may not transfer or reprogram for operating
expenses any funds derived from bonds,
notes, or other obligations issued for capital
projects.
SEC. 814. None of the Federal funds appro-
priated in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year,
nor may any be transferred to other appro-
priations, unless expressly so provided here-
in.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1071
January 23, 2019
SEC. 815. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law or under this Act, not to ex-
ceed 50 percent of unobligated balances re-
maining available at the end of fiscal year
2019 from appropriations of Federal funds
made available for salaries and expenses for
fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall remain
available through September 30, 2020, for
each such account for the purposes author-
ized: Provided, That a request shall be sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate for approval prior to the expenditure of
such funds: Provided further, That these re-
quests shall be made in compliance with re-
programming guidelines outlined in section
803 of this Act.
SEC. 816. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2020, dur-
ing a period in which neither a District of
Columbia continuing resolution or a regular
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in
effect, local funds are appropriated in the
amount provided for any project or activity
for which local funds are provided in the Act
referred to in paragraph (2) (subject to any
modifications enacted by the District of Co-
lumbia as of the beginning of the period dur-
ing which this subsection is in effect) at the
rate set forth by such Act.
(2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is
the Act of the Council of the District of Co-
lumbia pursuant to which a proposed budget
is approved for fiscal year 2020 which (subject
to the requirements of the District of Colum-
bia Home Rule Act) will constitute the local
portion of the annual budget for the District
of Columbia government for fiscal year 2020
for purposes of section 446 of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.46, D.C.
Official Code).
(b) Appropriations made by subsection (a)
shall cease to be available—
(1) during any period in which a District of
Columbia continuing resolution for fiscal
year 2020 is in effect; or
(2) upon the enactment into law of the reg-
ular District of Columbia appropriation bill
for fiscal year 2020.
(c) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) is provided under the authority and con-
ditions as provided under this Act and shall
be available to the extent and in the manner
that would be provided by this Act.
(d) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) shall cover all obligations or expendi-
tures incurred for such project or activity
during the portion of fiscal year 2020 for
which this section applies to such project or
activity.
(e) This section shall not apply to a project
or activity during any period of fiscal year
2020 if any other provision of law (other than
an authorization of appropriations)—
(1) makes an appropriation, makes funds
available, or grants authority for such
project or activity to continue for such pe-
riod; or
(2) specifically provides that no appropria-
tion shall be made, no funds shall be made
available, or no authority shall be granted
for such project or activity to continue for
such period.
(f) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to affect obligations of the govern-
ment of the District of Columbia mandated
by other law.
SEC. 817. Section 3(c)(2)(G) of the District
of Columbia College Access Act of 1999 (Pub-
lic Law 106–98; sec. 38–2702(c)(2)(G), D.C. Offi-
cial Code) is amended—
(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
‘‘$1,000,000’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(2) in clause (ii)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘but before school year
2019–2020’’ after ‘‘in or after school year 2016–
2017’’; and
(B) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) For individuals who begin an under-
graduate course of study in or after school
year 2019–2020, is from a family with a tax-
able annual income of less than $500,000. Be-
ginning with school year 2020–2021, the
Mayor shall adjust the amount in the pre-
vious sentence for inflation, as measured by
the percentage increase, if any, from the pre-
ceding fiscal year in the Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers, published by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Depart-
ment of Labor.’’.
SEC. 818. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in this title or in title IV shall be
treated as referring only to the provisions of
this title or of title IV.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Finan-
cial Services and General Government Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION D—DEPARTMENT OF THE INTE-
RIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT OF LANDS AND RESOURCES
For necessary expenses for protection, use,
improvement, development, disposal, cadas-
tral surveying, classification, acquisition of
easements and other interests in lands, and
performance of other functions, including
maintenance of facilities, as authorized by
law, in the management of lands and their
resources under the jurisdiction of the Bu-
reau of Land Management, including the
general administration of the Bureau, and
assessment of mineral potential of public
lands pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public
Law 96–487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), $1,198,000,000, to
remain available until expended, including
all such amounts as are collected from per-
mit processing fees, as authorized but made
subject to future appropriation by section
35(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 191), except that amounts from permit
processing fees may be used for any bureau-
related expenses associated with the proc-
essing of oil and gas applications for permits
to drill and related use of authorizations.
In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law
Administration program operations, includ-
ing the cost of administering the mining
claim fee program, to remain available until
expended, to be reduced by amounts col-
lected by the Bureau and credited to this ap-
propriation from mining claim maintenance
fees and location fees that are hereby au-
thorized for fiscal year 2019, so as to result in
a final appropriation estimated at not more
than $1,198,000,000, and $2,000,000, to remain
available until expended, from communica-
tion site rental fees established by the Bu-
reau for the cost of administering commu-
nication site activities.
LAND ACQUISITION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tions 205, 206, and 318(d) of Public Law 94–579,
including administrative expenses and acqui-
sition of lands or waters, or interests there-
in, $28,316,000, to be derived from the Land
and Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for Land Acquisition and de-
rived from the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, $1,800,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded from previously appropriated emer-
gencies, hardships, and inholdings funding:
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded
from amounts that were designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to the Concurrent Resolution on the
Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OREGON AND CALIFORNIA GRANT LANDS
For expenses necessary for management,
protection, and development of resources and
for construction, operation, and mainte-
nance of access roads, reforestation, and
other improvements on the revested Oregon
and California Railroad grant lands, on other
Federal lands in the Oregon and California
land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adja-
cent rights-of-way; and acquisition of lands
or interests therein, including existing con-
necting roads on or adjacent to such grant
lands; $106,985,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the
aggregate of all receipts during the current
fiscal year from the revested Oregon and
California Railroad grant lands is hereby
made a charge against the Oregon and Cali-
fornia land-grant fund and shall be trans-
ferred to the General Fund in the Treasury
in accordance with the second paragraph of
subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August
28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).
RANGE IMPROVEMENTS
For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisi-
tion of lands and interests therein, and im-
provement of Federal rangelands pursuant to
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751), not-
withstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50
percent of all moneys received during the
prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 of
the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m)
and the amount designated for range im-
provements from grazing fees and mineral
leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands
transferred to the Department of the Inte-
rior pursuant to law, but not less than
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000
shall be available for administrative ex-
penses.
SERVICE CHARGES, DEPOSITS, AND FORFEITURES
For administrative expenses and other
costs related to processing application docu-
ments and other authorizations for use and
disposal of public lands and resources, for
costs of providing copies of official public
land documents, for monitoring construc-
tion, operation, and termination of facilities
in conjunction with use authorizations, and
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such
amounts as may be collected under Public
Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 185), to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of
Public Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any
moneys that have been or will be received
pursuant to that section, whether as a result
of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if
not appropriate for refund pursuant to sec-
tion 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)),
shall be available and may be expended
under the authority of this Act by the Sec-
retary to improve, protect, or rehabilitate
any public lands administered through the
Bureau of Land Management which have
been damaged by the action of a resource de-
veloper, purchaser, permittee, or any unau-
thorized person, without regard to whether
all moneys collected from each such action
are used on the exact lands damaged which
led to the action: Provided further, That any
such moneys that are in excess of amounts
needed to repair damage to the exact land
for which funds were collected may be used
to repair other damaged public lands.
MISCELLANEOUS TRUST FUNDS
In addition to amounts authorized to be
expended under existing laws, there is hereby
appropriated such amounts as may be con-
tributed under section 307 of Public Law 94–
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1072 January 23, 2019
579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such amounts as may
be advanced for administrative costs, sur-
veys, appraisals, and costs of making con-
veyances of omitted lands under section
211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to re-
main available until expended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
The Bureau of Land Management may
carry out the operations funded under this
Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants,
cooperative agreements and reimbursable
agreements with public and private entities,
including with States. Appropriations for the
Bureau shall be available for purchase, erec-
tion, and dismantlement of temporary struc-
tures, and alteration and maintenance of
necessary buildings and appurtenant facili-
ties to which the United States has title; up
to $100,000 for payments, at the discretion of
the Secretary, for information or evidence
concerning violations of laws administered
by the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency
expenses of enforcement activities author-
ized or approved by the Secretary and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That
notwithstanding Public Law 90–620 (44 U.S.C.
501), the Bureau may, under cooperative
cost-sharing and partnership arrangements
authorized by law, procure printing services
from cooperators in connection with jointly
produced publications for which the coopera-
tors share the cost of printing either in cash
or in services, and the Bureau determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
projects to be funded pursuant to a written
commitment by a State government to pro-
vide an identified amount of money in sup-
port of the project may be carried out by the
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropria-
tions herein made shall not be available for
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild
horses and burros in the care of the Bureau
or its contractors or for the sale of wild
horses and burros that results in their de-
struction for processing into commercial
products.
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
For necessary expenses of the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, as author-
ized by law, and for scientific and economic
studies, general administration, and for the
performance of other authorized functions
related to such resources, $1,292,078,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $18,318,000 shall be
used for implementing subsections (a), (b),
(c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533) (except for
processing petitions, developing and issuing
proposed and final regulations, and taking
any other steps to implement actions de-
scribed in subsection (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or
(c)(2)(B)(ii)).
CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For construction, improvement, acquisi-
tion, or removal of buildings and other fa-
cilities required in the conservation, man-
agement, investigation, protection, and uti-
lization of fish and wildlife resources, and
the acquisition of lands and interests there-
in; $55,613,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
Of the unobligated balances available for
Construction, $1,500,000 is permanently re-
scinded, including $300,000 of unobligated bal-
ances available for Construction under Pub-
lic Law 111–8: Provided, That no amounts
may be rescinded from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
LAND ACQUISITION
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, and for ac-
quisition of land or waters, or interest there-
in, in accordance with statutory authority
applicable to the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, $65,189,000, to be derived
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund
and to remain available until expended, of
which, notwithstanding section 200306 of
title 54, United States Code, not more than
$20,000,000 shall be for land conservation
partnerships authorized by the Highlands
Conservation Act of 2004, including not to ex-
ceed $320,000 for administrative expenses:
Provided, That none of the funds appro-
priated for specific land acquisition projects
may be used to pay for any administrative
overhead, planning or other management
costs.
COOPERATIVE ENDANGERED SPECIES
CONSERVATION FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tion 6 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973
(16 U.S.C. 1535), $53,495,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $22,695,000 is to
be derived from the Cooperative Endangered
Species Conservation Fund; and of which
$30,800,000 is to be derived from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Of the unobligated balances made available
from the Cooperative Endangered Species
Conservation Fund, $7,500,000 is permanently
rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE FUND
For expenses necessary to implement the
Act of October 17, 1978 (16 U.S.C. 715s),
$13,228,000.
NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION
FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of the North American Wetlands
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.),
$42,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NEOTROPICAL MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation
Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $3,910,000, to re-
main available until expended.
MULTINATIONAL SPECIES CONSERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C.
4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant Conserva-
tion Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the
Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of
1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et
seq.), and the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $11,561,000,
to remain available until expended.
STATE AND TRIBAL WILDLIFE GRANTS
For wildlife conservation grants to States
and to the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
and Indian tribes under the provisions of the
Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish
and Wildlife Coordination Act, for the devel-
opment and implementation of programs for
the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, in-
cluding species that are not hunted or fished,
$64,571,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the amount pro-
vided herein, $4,209,000 is for a competitive
grant program for Indian tribes not subject
to the remaining provisions of this appro-
priation: Provided further, That $6,362,000 is
for a competitive grant program to imple-
ment approved plans for States, territories,
and other jurisdictions and at the discretion
of affected States, the regional Associations
of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to
the remaining provisions of this appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall, after deducting $10,571,000 and adminis-
trative expenses, apportion the amount pro-
vided herein in the following manner: (1) to
the District of Columbia and to the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal
to not more than one-half of 1 percent there-
of; and (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
each a sum equal to not more than one-
fourth of 1 percent thereof: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall apportion the re-
maining amount in the following manner: (1)
one-third of which is based on the ratio to
which the land area of such State bears to
the total land area of all such States; and (2)
two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to
which the population of such State bears to
the total population of all such States: Pro-
vided further, That the amounts apportioned
under this paragraph shall be adjusted equi-
tably so that no State shall be apportioned a
sum which is less than 1 percent of the
amount available for apportionment under
this paragraph for any fiscal year or more
than 5 percent of such amount: Provided fur-
ther, That the Federal share of planning
grants shall not exceed 75 percent of the
total costs of such projects and the Federal
share of implementation grants shall not ex-
ceed 65 percent of the total costs of such
projects: Provided further, That the non-Fed-
eral share of such projects may not be de-
rived from Federal grant programs: Provided
further, That any amount apportioned in 2019
to any State, territory, or other jurisdiction
that remains unobligated as of September 30,
2020, shall be reapportioned, together with
funds appropriated in 2021, in the manner
provided herein.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
The United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice may carry out the operations of Service
programs by direct expenditure, contracts,
grants, cooperative agreements and reim-
bursable agreements with public and private
entities. Appropriations and funds available
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice shall be available for repair of damage to
public roads within and adjacent to reserva-
tion areas caused by operations of the Serv-
ice; options for the purchase of land at not to
exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident
to such public recreational uses on conserva-
tion areas as are consistent with their pri-
mary purpose; and the maintenance and im-
provement of aquaria, buildings, and other
facilities under the jurisdiction of the Serv-
ice and to which the United States has title,
and which are used pursuant to law in con-
nection with management, and investigation
of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, That
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service
may, under cooperative cost sharing and
partnership arrangements authorized by law,
procure printing services from cooperators
in connection with jointly produced publica-
tions for which the cooperators share at
least one-half the cost of printing either in
cash or services and the Service determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
the Service may accept donated aircraft as
replacements for existing aircraft: Provided
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
all fees collected for non-toxic shot review
and approval shall be deposited under the
heading ‘‘United States Fish and Wildlife
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1073
January 23, 2019
Service—Resource Management’’ and shall
be available to the Secretary, without fur-
ther appropriation, to be used for expenses of
processing of such non-toxic shot type or
coating applications and revising regulations
as necessary, and shall remain available
until expended.
Of the unobligated balances available for
grants under Public Law 109–58, title III, sub-
title G, section 384, $15,000,000 is permanently
rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
For expenses necessary for the manage-
ment, operation, and maintenance of areas
and facilities administered by the National
Park Service and for the general administra-
tion of the National Park Service,
$2,502,711,000, of which $10,032,000 for planning
and interagency coordination in support of
Everglades restoration and $135,980,000 for
maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation
projects for constructed assets and
$151,575,000 for cyclic maintenance projects
for constructed assets and cultural resources
shall remain available until September 30,
2020: Provided, That funds appropriated under
this heading in this Act are available for the
purposes of section 5 of Public Law 95–348:
Provided further, That notwithstanding sec-
tion 9(a) of the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission Act of 2016
(Public Law 114–196; 130 Stat. 691), $500,000 of
the funds made available under this heading
shall be provided to the organization se-
lected under section 9(b) of that Act for ex-
penditure by the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission in accord-
ance with that Act.
NATIONAL RECREATION AND PRESERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out recre-
ation programs, natural programs, cultural
programs, heritage partnership programs,
environmental compliance and review, inter-
national park affairs, and grant administra-
tion, not otherwise provided for, $64,138,000.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary in carrying out the
National Historic Preservation Act (division
A of subtitle III of title 54, United States
Code), $102,660,000, to be derived from the
Historic Preservation Fund and to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
$13,000,000 shall be for Save America’s Treas-
ures grants for preservation of national sig-
nificant sites, structures and artifacts as au-
thorized by section 7303 of the Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009 (54 U.S.C.
3089): Provided, That an individual Save
America’s Treasures grant shall be matched
by non-Federal funds: Provided further, That
individual projects shall only be eligible for
one grant: Provided further, That all projects
to be funded shall be approved by the Sec-
retary of the Interior in consultation with
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That of the funds
provided for the Historic Preservation Fund,
$750,000 is for competitive grants for the sur-
vey and nomination of properties to the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places and as Na-
tional Historic Landmarks associated with
communities currently under-represented, as
determined by the Secretary, $14,500,000 is
for competitive grants to preserve the sites
and stories of the Civil Rights movement,
$8,000,000 is for grants to Historically Black
Colleges and Universities, and $5,000,000 is for
competitive grants for the restoration of his-
toric properties of national, State and local
significance listed on or eligible for inclusion
on the National Register of Historic Places,
to be made without imposing the usage or di-
rect grant restrictions of section 101(e)(3) (54
U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historical
Preservation Act: Provided further, That such
competitive grants shall be made without
imposing the matching requirements in sec-
tion 302902(b)(3) of title 54, United States
Code, to States and Indian tribes as defined
in chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian
organizations, local governments, including
Certified Local Governments, and non-profit
organizations.
CONSTRUCTION
For construction, improvements, repair, or
replacement of physical facilities, and com-
pliance and planning for programs and areas
administered by the National Park Service,
$364,704,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, for any project ini-
tially funded in fiscal year 2019 with a future
phase indicated in the National Park Service
5-Year Line Item Construction Plan, a single
procurement may be issued which includes
the full scope of the project: Provided further,
That the solicitation and contract shall con-
tain the clause availability of funds found at
48 CFR 52.232–18: Provided further, That Na-
tional Park Service Donations, Park Conces-
sions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees
may be made available for the cost of adjust-
ments and changes within the original scope
of effort for projects funded by the National
Park Service Construction appropriation:
Provided further, That the Secretary of the
Interior shall consult with the Committees
on Appropriations, in accordance with cur-
rent reprogramming thresholds, prior to
making any charges authorized by this sec-
tion.
LAND ACQUISITION AND STATE ASSISTANCE
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, and for ac-
quisition of lands or waters, or interest
therein, in accordance with the statutory au-
thority applicable to the National Park
Service, $168,444,000, to be derived from the
Land and Water Conservation Fund and to
remain available until expended, of which
$124,006,000 is for the State assistance pro-
gram and of which $10,000,000 shall be for the
American Battlefield Protection Program
grants as authorized by chapter 3081 of title
54, United States Code.
CENTENNIAL CHALLENGE
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of section 101701 of title 54, United
States Code, relating to challenge cost share
agreements, $20,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for Centennial Challenge
projects and programs: Provided, That not
less than 50 percent of the total cost of each
project or program shall be derived from
non-Federal sources in the form of donated
cash, assets, or a pledge of donation guaran-
teed by an irrevocable letter of credit.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
In addition to other uses set forth in sec-
tion 101917(c)(2) of title 54, United States
Code, franchise fees credited to a sub-ac-
count shall be available for expenditure by
the Secretary, without further appropria-
tion, for use at any unit within the National
Park System to extinguish or reduce liabil-
ity for Possessory Interest or leasehold sur-
render interest. Such funds may only be used
for this purpose to the extent that the bene-
fitting unit anticipated franchise fee receipts
over the term of the contract at that unit
exceed the amount of funds used to extin-
guish or reduce liability. Franchise fees at
the benefitting unit shall be credited to the
sub-account of the originating unit over a
period not to exceed the term of a single con-
tract at the benefitting unit, in the amount
of funds so expended to extinguish or reduce
liability.
For the costs of administration of the
Land and Water Conservation Fund grants
authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf
of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (Pub-
lic Law 109–432), the National Park Service
may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts
which are authorized to be disbursed under
such section, such retained amounts to re-
main available until expended.
National Park Service funds may be trans-
ferred to the Federal Highway Administra-
tion (FHWA), Department of Transportation,
for purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204.
Transfers may include a reasonable amount
for FHWA administrative support costs.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For expenses necessary for the United
States Geological Survey to perform sur-
veys, investigations, and research covering
topography, geology, hydrology, biology, and
the mineral and water resources of the
United States, its territories and posses-
sions, and other areas as authorized by 43
U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to
their mineral and water resources; give engi-
neering supervision to power permittees and
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission li-
censees; administer the minerals exploration
program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct inquiries
into the economic conditions affecting min-
ing and materials processing industries (30
U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) and
related purposes as authorized by law; and to
publish and disseminate data relative to the
foregoing activities; $1,160,596,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020; of which
$84,337,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for satellite operations; and of which
$15,164,000 shall be available until expended
for deferred maintenance and capital im-
provement projects that exceed $100,000 in
cost: Provided, That none of the funds pro-
vided for the ecosystem research activity
shall be used to conduct new surveys on pri-
vate property, unless specifically authorized
in writing by the property owner: Provided
further, That no part of this appropriation
shall be used to pay more than one-half the
cost of topographic mapping or water re-
sources data collection and investigations
carried on in cooperation with States and
municipalities.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
From within the amount appropriated for
activities of the United States Geological
Survey such sums as are necessary shall be
available for contracting for the furnishing
of topographic maps and for the making of
geophysical or other specialized surveys
when it is administratively determined that
such procedures are in the public interest;
construction and maintenance of necessary
buildings and appurtenant facilities; acquisi-
tion of lands for gauging stations, observa-
tion wells, and seismic equipment; expenses
of the United States National Committee for
Geological Sciences; and payment of com-
pensation and expenses of persons employed
by the Survey duly appointed to represent
the United States in the negotiation and ad-
ministration of interstate compacts: Pro-
vided, That activities funded by appropria-
tions herein made may be accomplished
through the use of contracts, grants, or coop-
erative agreements as defined in section 6302
of title 31, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That the United States Geological Sur-
vey may enter into contracts or cooperative
agreements directly with individuals or indi-
rectly with institutions or nonprofit organi-
zations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1074 January 23, 2019
the temporary or intermittent services of
students or recent graduates, who shall be
considered employees for the purpose of
chapters 57 and 81 of title 5, United States
Code, relating to compensation for travel
and work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28,
United States Code, relating to tort claims,
but shall not be considered to be Federal em-
ployees for any other purposes.
BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
For expenses necessary for granting and
administering leases, easements, rights-of-
way and agreements for use for oil and gas,
other minerals, energy, and marine-related
purposes on the Outer Continental Shelf and
approving operations related thereto, as au-
thorized by law; for environmental studies,
as authorized by law; for implementing other
laws and to the extent provided by Presi-
dential or Secretarial delegation; and for
matching grants or cooperative agreements,
$179,266,000, of which $129,450,000 is to remain
available until September 30, 2020, and of
which $49,816,000 is to remain available until
expended: Provided, That this total appro-
priation shall be reduced by amounts col-
lected by the Secretary and credited to this
appropriation from additions to receipts re-
sulting from increases to lease rental rates
in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost re-
covery fees from activities conducted by the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management pursu-
ant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands
Act, including studies, assessments, anal-
ysis, and miscellaneous administrative ac-
tivities: Provided further, That the sum here-
in appropriated shall be reduced as such col-
lections are received during the fiscal year,
so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 ap-
propriation estimated at not more than
$129,450,000: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable
expenses related to promoting volunteer
beach and marine cleanup activities.
BUREAU OF SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT
OFFSHORE SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT
For expenses necessary for the regulation
of operations related to leases, easements,
rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil
and gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-
related purposes on the Outer Continental
Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing and
implementing laws and regulations as au-
thorized by law and to the extent provided
by Presidential or Secretarial delegation;
and for matching grants or cooperative
agreements, $145,475,000, of which $121,351,000
is to remain available until September 30,
2020, and of which $24,124,000 is to remain
available until expended: Provided, That this
total appropriation shall be reduced by
amounts collected by the Secretary and
credited to this appropriation from additions
to receipts resulting from increases to lease
rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and
from cost recovery fees from activities con-
ducted by the Bureau of Safety and Environ-
mental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, including stud-
ies, assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous
administrative activities: Provided further,
That the sum herein appropriated shall be
reduced as such collections are received dur-
ing the fiscal year, so as to result in a final
fiscal year 2019 appropriation estimated at
not more than $121,351,000.
For an additional amount, $41,765,000, to
remain available until expended, to be re-
duced by amounts collected by the Secretary
and credited to this appropriation, which
shall be derived from non-refundable inspec-
tion fees collected in fiscal year 2019, as pro-
vided in this Act: Provided, That to the ex-
tent that amounts realized from such inspec-
tion fees exceed $41,765,000, the amounts real-
ized in excess of $41,765,000 shall be credited
to this appropriation and remain available
until expended: Provided further, That for fis-
cal year 2019, not less than 50 percent of the
inspection fees expended by the Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement will
be used to fund personnel and mission-re-
lated costs to expand capacity and expedite
the orderly development, subject to environ-
mental safeguards, of the Outer Continental
Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), in-
cluding the review of applications for per-
mits to drill.
OIL SPILL RESEARCH
For necessary expenses to carry out title I,
section 1016, title IV, sections 4202 and 4303,
title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $14,899,000, which
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended.
OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND
ENFORCEMENT
REGULATION AND TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Surface Mining Control and
Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95–87,
$115,804,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That appropria-
tions for the Office of Surface Mining Rec-
lamation and Enforcement may provide for
the travel and per diem expenses of State
and tribal personnel attending Office of Sur-
face Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
sponsored training: Provided further, That of
the amounts made available under this head-
ing and notwithstanding the Federal share
limits contained in section 705 of the Surface
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
(30 U.S.C. 1295), not to exceed $2,300,000 shall
be for the Secretary of the Interior to make
grants to any State with active coal mine
operations within its borders that does not
have an approved State regulatory program
under section 503 of the Surface Mining Con-
trol and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C.
1253) for the purpose of developing a State
program under such Act.
In addition, for costs to review, admin-
ister, and enforce permits issued by the Of-
fice pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95–
87 (30 U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That fees as-
sessed and collected by the Office pursuant
to such section 507 shall be credited to this
account as discretionary offsetting collec-
tions, to remain available until expended:
Provided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as collections are received during the
fiscal year, so as to result in a fiscal year
2019 appropriation estimated at not more
than $115,804,000.
ABANDONED MINE RECLAMATION FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out title
IV of the Surface Mining Control and Rec-
lamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95–87,
$24,672,000, to be derived from receipts of the
Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That pursuant to Public Law 97–365, the De-
partment of the Interior is authorized to use
up to 20 percent from the recovery of the de-
linquent debt owed to the United States Gov-
ernment to pay for contracts to collect these
debts: Provided further, That funds made
available under title IV of Public Law 95–87
may be used for any required non-Federal
share of the cost of projects funded by the
Federal Government for the purpose of envi-
ronmental restoration related to treatment
or abatement of acid mine drainage from
abandoned mines: Provided further, That such
projects must be consistent with the pur-
poses and priorities of the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts provided under this head-
ing may be used for the travel and per diem
expenses of State and tribal personnel at-
tending Office of Surface Mining Reclama-
tion and Enforcement sponsored training.
In addition, $115,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for grants to States and
federally recognized Indian Tribes for rec-
lamation of abandoned mine lands and other
related activities in accordance with the
terms and conditions in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act): Provided, That such additional amount
shall be used for economic and community
development in conjunction with the prior-
ities in section 403(a) of the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30
U.S.C. 1233(a)): Provided further, That of such
additional amount, $75,000,000 shall be dis-
tributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appa-
lachian States with the greatest amount of
unfunded needs to meet the priorities de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of such sec-
tion, $30,000,000 shall be distributed in equal
amounts to the 3 Appalachian States with
the subsequent greatest amount of unfunded
needs to meet such priorities, and $10,000,000
shall be for grants to federally recognized In-
dian Tribes without regard to their status as
certified or uncertified under the Surface
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
(30 U.S.C. 1233(a)), for reclamation of aban-
doned mine lands and other related activi-
ties in accordance with the terms and condi-
tions in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act) and shall be used
for economic and community development in
conjunction with the priorities in section
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Rec-
lamation Act of 1977: Provided further, That
such additional amount shall be allocated to
States and Indian Tribes within 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS AND BUREAU OF
INDIAN EDUCATION
OPERATION OF INDIAN PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary for the operation of
Indian programs, as authorized by law, in-
cluding the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921
(25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Education Amend-
ments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001–2019), and the
Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25
U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $2,414,577,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, except as
otherwise provided herein; of which not to
exceed $8,500 may be for official reception
and representation expenses; of which not to
exceed $76,000,000 shall be for welfare assist-
ance payments: Provided, That in cases of
designated Federal disasters, the Secretary
may exceed such cap, from the amounts pro-
vided herein, to provide for disaster relief to
Indian communities affected by the disaster:
Provided further, That federally recognized
Indian tribes and tribal organizations of fed-
erally recognized Indian tribes may use their
tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare
assistance costs: Provided further, That not
to exceed $683,572,000 for school operations
costs of Bureau-funded schools and other
education programs shall become available
on July 1, 2019, and shall remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided further,
That not to exceed $55,174,000 shall remain
available until expended for housing im-
provement, road maintenance, attorney fees,
litigation support, land records improve-
ment, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Pro-
gram: Provided further, That notwithstanding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1075
January 23, 2019
any other provision of law, including but not
limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) and section 1128
of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25
U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed $82,935,000 within
and only from such amounts made available
for school operations shall be available for
administrative cost grants associated with
grants approved prior to July 1, 2019: Pro-
vided further, That any forestry funds allo-
cated to a federally recognized tribe which
remain unobligated as of September 30, 2020,
may be transferred during fiscal year 2021 to
an Indian forest land assistance account es-
tablished for the benefit of the holder of the
funds within the holder’s trust fund account:
Provided further, That any such unobligated
balances not so transferred shall expire on
September 30, 2021: Provided further, That in
order to enhance the safety of Bureau field
employees, the Bureau may use funds to pur-
chase uniforms or other identifying articles
of clothing for personnel: Provided further,
That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may ac-
cept transfers of funds from U.S. Customs
and Border Protection to supplement any
other funding available for reconstruction or
repair of roads owned by the Bureau of In-
dian Affairs as identified on the National
Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory, 23
U.S.C. 202(b)(1).
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS
For payments to tribes and tribal organi-
zations for contract support costs associated
with Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act agreements with the
Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal year 2019,
such sums as may be necessary, which shall
be available for obligation through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, no
amounts made available under this heading
shall be available for transfer to another
budget account.
CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For construction, repair, improvement,
and maintenance of irrigation and power sys-
tems, buildings, utilities, and other facili-
ties, including architectural and engineering
services by contract; acquisition of lands,
and interests in lands; and preparation of
lands for farming, and for construction of
the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursu-
ant to Public Law 87–483; $358,719,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amounts as may be available for
the construction of the Navajo Indian Irriga-
tion Project may be transferred to the Bu-
reau of Reclamation: Provided further, That
not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority
available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs
from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may
be used to cover the road program manage-
ment costs of the Bureau: Provided further,
That any funds provided for the Safety of
Dams program pursuant to the Act of No-
vember 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall be made
available on a nonreimbursable basis: Pro-
vided further, That for fiscal year 2019, in im-
plementing new construction, replacement
facilities construction, or facilities improve-
ment and repair project grants in excess of
$100,000 that are provided to grant schools
under Public Law 100–297, the Secretary of
the Interior shall use the Administrative and
Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for
Assistance Programs contained in part 12 of
title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as the
regulatory requirements: Provided further,
That such grants shall not be subject to sec-
tion 12.61 of title 43, Code of Federal Regula-
tions; the Secretary and the grantee shall
negotiate and determine a schedule of pay-
ments for the work to be performed: Provided
further, That in considering grant applica-
tions, the Secretary shall consider whether
such grantee would be deficient in assuring
that the construction projects conform to
applicable building standards and codes and
Federal, tribal, or State health and safety
standards as required by section 1125(b) of
title XI of Public Law 95–561 (25 U.S.C.
2005(b)), with respect to organizational and
financial management capabilities: Provided
further, That if the Secretary declines a
grant application, the Secretary shall follow
the requirements contained in section 5206(f)
of Public Law 100–297 (25 U.S.C. 2504(f)): Pro-
vided further, That any disputes between the
Secretary and any grantee concerning a
grant shall be subject to the disputes provi-
sion in section 5208(e) of Public Law 107–110
(25 U.S.C. 2507(e)): Provided further, That in
order to ensure timely completion of con-
struction projects, the Secretary may as-
sume control of a project and all funds re-
lated to the project, if, within 18 months of
the date of enactment of this Act, any grant-
ee receiving funds appropriated in this Act
or in any prior Act, has not completed the
planning and design phase of the project and
commenced construction: Provided further,
That this appropriation may be reimbursed
from the Office of the Special Trustee for
American Indians appropriation for the ap-
propriate share of construction costs for
space expansion needed in agency offices to
meet trust reform implementation: Provided
further, That of the funds made available
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be de-
rived from the Indian Irrigation Fund estab-
lished by section 3211 of the WIIN Act (Pub-
lic Law 114–322; 130 Stat. 1749): Provided fur-
ther, That for funds appropriated under this
heading, the date specified in section 3216 of
Public Law 114–322 shall be applied as sub-
stituting ‘‘September 30, 2028’’ for ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2021’’.
INDIAN LAND AND WATER CLAIM SETTLEMENTS
AND MISCELLANEOUS PAYMENTS TO INDIANS
For payments and necessary administra-
tive expenses for implementation of Indian
land and water claim settlements pursuant
to Public Laws 99–264, 100–580, 101–618, 111–11,
111–291, and 114–322, and for implementation
of other land and water rights settlements,
$50,057,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary shall
make payments in such amounts as nec-
essary to satisfy the total authorized
amount for the Navajo Nation Water Rights
Trust Fund.
INDIAN GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of guaranteed loans and in-
sured loans, $10,779,000, of which $1,455,000 is
for administrative expenses, as authorized by
the Indian Financing Act of 1974: Provided,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such loans, shall be as defined in sec-
tion 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974: Provided further, That these funds are
available to subsidize total loan principal,
any part of which is to be guaranteed or in-
sured, not to exceed $174,616,164.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry
out the operation of Indian programs by di-
rect expenditure, contracts, cooperative
agreements, compacts, and grants, either di-
rectly or in cooperation with States and
other organizations.
Notwithstanding Public Law 87–279 (25
U.S.C. 15), the Bureau of Indian Affairs may
contract for services in support of the man-
agement, operation, and maintenance of the
Power Division of the San Carlos Irrigation
Project.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no funds available to the Bureau of In-
dian Affairs for central office oversight and
Executive Direction and Administrative
Services (except executive direction and ad-
ministrative services funding for Tribal Pri-
ority Allocations, regional offices, and facili-
ties operations and maintenance) shall be
available for contracts, grants, compacts, or
cooperative agreements with the Bureau of
Indian Affairs under the provisions of the In-
dian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal
Self-Governance Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–
413).
In the event any tribe returns appropria-
tions made available by this Act to the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs, this action shall not
diminish the Federal Government’s trust re-
sponsibility to that tribe, or the govern-
ment-to-government relationship between
the United States and that tribe, or that
tribe’s ability to access future appropria-
tions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no funds available to the Bureau of In-
dian Education, other than the amounts pro-
vided herein for assistance to public schools
under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available
to support the operation of any elementary
or secondary school in the State of Alaska.
No funds available to the Bureau of Indian
Education shall be used to support expanded
grades for any school or dormitory beyond
the grade structure in place or approved by
the Secretary of the Interior at each school
in the Bureau of Indian Education school
system as of October 1, 1995, except that the
Secretary of the Interior may waive this pro-
hibition to support expansion of up to one
additional grade when the Secretary deter-
mines such waiver is needed to support ac-
complishment of the mission of the Bureau
of Indian Education, or more than one grade
to expand the elementary grade structure for
Bureau-funded schools with a K-2 grade
structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations
made available in this or any prior Act for
schools funded by the Bureau shall be avail-
able, in accordance with the Bureau’s fund-
ing formula, only to the schools in the Bu-
reau school system as of September 1, 1996,
and to any school or school program that
was reinstated in fiscal year 2012. Funds
made available under this Act may not be
used to establish a charter school at a Bu-
reau-funded school (as that term is defined
in section 1141 of the Education Amendments
of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that a charter
school that is in existence on the date of the
enactment of this Act and that has operated
at a Bureau-funded school before September
1, 1999, may continue to operate during that
period, but only if the charter school pays to
the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to reim-
burse the Bureau for the use of the real and
personal property (including buses and vans),
the funds of the charter school are kept sepa-
rate and apart from Bureau funds, and the
Bureau does not assume any obligation for
charter school programs of the State in
which the school is located if the charter
school loses such funding. Employees of Bu-
reau-funded schools sharing a campus with a
charter school and performing functions re-
lated to the charter school’s operation and
employees of a charter school shall not be
treated as Federal employees for purposes of
chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, including section 113 of title I of appen-
dix C of Public Law 106–113, if in fiscal year
2003 or 2004 a grantee received indirect and
administrative costs pursuant to a distribu-
tion formula based on section 5(f) of Public
Law 101–301, the Secretary shall continue to
distribute indirect and administrative cost
funds to such grantee using the section 5(f)
distribution formula.
Funds available under this Act may not be
used to establish satellite locations of
schools in the Bureau school system as of
September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1076 January 23, 2019
may waive this prohibition in order for an
Indian tribe to provide language and cultural
immersion educational programs for non-
public schools located within the jurisdic-
tional area of the tribal government which
exclusively serve tribal members, do not in-
clude grades beyond those currently served
at the existing Bureau-funded school, pro-
vide an educational environment with educa-
tor presence and academic facilities com-
parable to the Bureau-funded school, comply
with all applicable Tribal, Federal, or State
health and safety standards, and the Ameri-
cans with Disabilities Act, and demonstrate
the benefits of establishing operations at a
satellite location in lieu of incurring ex-
traordinary costs, such as for transportation
or other impacts to students such as those
caused by busing students extended dis-
tances: Provided, That no funds available
under this Act may be used to fund oper-
ations, maintenance, rehabilitation, con-
struction or other facilities-related costs for
such assets that are not owned by the Bu-
reau: Provided further, That the term ‘‘sat-
ellite school’’ means a school location phys-
ically separated from the existing Bureau
school by more than 50 miles but that forms
part of the existing school in all other re-
spects.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
DEPARTMENTAL OPERATIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for management of
the Department of the Interior and for
grants and cooperative agreements, as au-
thorized by law, $124,673,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not to
exceed $15,000 may be for official reception
and representation expenses; and of which up
to $1,000,000 shall be available for workers
compensation payments and unemployment
compensation payments associated with the
orderly closure of the United States Bureau
of Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Of-
fice of Valuation Services is to be derived
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund
and shall remain available until expended;
and of which $9,704,000 for Indian land, min-
eral, and resource valuation activities shall
remain available until expended: Provided,
That funds for Indian land, mineral, and re-
source valuation activities may, as needed,
be transferred to and merged with the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian
Education ‘‘Operation of Indian Programs’’
account and the Office of the Special Trustee
for American Indians ‘‘Federal Trust Pro-
grams’’ account: Provided further, That funds
made available through contracts or grants
obligated during fiscal year 2019, as author-
ized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of
1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain
available until expended by the contractor or
grantee: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
$400,000 shall be made available to the com-
mission established by section 3(a) of the
Alyce Spotted Bear and Walter Soboleff
Commission on Native Children Act (Public
Law 114–244; 130 Stat. 981).
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
For fiscal year 2019, up to $400,000 of the
payments authorized by chapter 69 of title
31, United States Code, may be retained for
administrative expenses of the Payments in
Lieu of Taxes Program: Provided, That the
amounts provided under this Act specifically
for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes program
are the only amounts available for payments
authorized under chapter 69 of title 31,
United States Code: Provided further, That in
the event the sums appropriated for any fis-
cal year for payments pursuant to this chap-
ter are insufficient to make the full pay-
ments authorized by that chapter to all
units of local government, then the payment
to each local government shall be made pro-
portionally: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may make adjustments to payment to
individual units of local government to cor-
rect for prior overpayments or underpay-
ments: Provided further, That no payment
shall be made pursuant to that chapter to
otherwise eligible units of local government
if the computed amount of the payment is
less than $100.
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For expenses necessary for assistance to
territories under the jurisdiction of the De-
partment of the Interior and other jurisdic-
tions identified in section 104(e) of Public
Law 108–188, $100,688,000, of which: (1)
$91,240,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for territorial assistance, including
general technical assistance, maintenance
assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef ini-
tiative activities, and brown tree snake con-
trol and research; grants to the judiciary in
American Samoa for compensation and ex-
penses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C.
1661(c)); grants to the Government of Amer-
ican Samoa, in addition to current local rev-
enues, for construction and support of gov-
ernmental functions; grants to the Govern-
ment of the Virgin Islands, as authorized by
law; grants to the Government of Guam, as
authorized by law; and grants to the Govern-
ment of the Northern Mariana Islands , as
authorized by law (Public Law 94–241; 90
Stat. 272); and (2) $9,448,000 shall be available
until September 30, 2020, for salaries and ex-
penses of the Office of Insular Affairs: Pro-
vided, That all financial transactions of the
territorial and local governments herein pro-
vided for, including such transactions of all
agencies or instrumentalities established or
used by such governments, may be audited
by the Government Accountability Office, at
its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35
of title 31, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That Northern Mariana Islands Cov-
enant grant funding shall be provided ac-
cording to those terms of the Agreement of
the Special Representatives on Future
United States Financial Assistance for the
Northern Mariana Islands approved by Pub-
lic Law 104–134: Provided further, That the
funds for the program of operations and
maintenance improvement are appropriated
to institutionalize routine operations and
maintenance improvement of capital infra-
structure with territorial participation and
cost sharing to be determined by the Sec-
retary based on the grantee’s commitment
to timely maintenance of its capital assets:
Provided further, That any appropriation for
disaster assistance under this heading in this
Act or previous appropriations Acts may be
used as non–Federal matching funds for the
purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided
pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).
COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION
For grants and necessary expenses,
$3,413,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2)
and 233 of the Compact of Free Association
for the Republic of Palau; and section
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association
for the Government of the Republic of the
Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
Micronesia, as authorized by Public Law 99–
658 and Public Law 108–188.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
At the request of the Governor of Guam,
the Secretary may transfer discretionary
funds or mandatory funds provided under
section 104(e) of Public Law 108–188 and Pub-
lic Law 104–134, that are allocated for Guam,
to the Secretary of Agriculture for the sub-
sidy cost of direct or guaranteed loans, plus
not to exceed three percent of the amount of
the subsidy transferred for the cost of loan
administration, for the purposes authorized
by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act for construction
and repair projects in Guam, and such funds
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That such costs, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974: Provided further, That such loans or
loan guarantees may be made without regard
to the population of the area, credit else-
where requirements, and restrictions on the
types of eligible entities under the Rural
Electrification Act of 1936 and section
306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural
Development Act: Provided further, That any
funds transferred to the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall be in addition to funds other-
wise made available to make or guarantee
loans under such authorities.
OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Solicitor, $65,674,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $52,486,000.
OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL TRUSTEE FOR
AMERICAN INDIANS
FEDERAL TRUST PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the operation of trust programs for In-
dians by direct expenditure, contracts, coop-
erative agreements, compacts, and grants,
$111,540,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not to exceed $19,016,000
from this or any other Act, may be available
for historical accounting: Provided, That
funds for trust management improvements
and litigation support may, as needed, be
transferred to or merged with the Bureau of
Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Edu-
cation, ‘‘Operation of Indian Programs’’ ac-
count; the Office of the Solicitor, ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ account; and the Office of the
Secretary, ‘‘Departmental Operations’’ ac-
count: Provided further, That funds made
available through contracts or grants obli-
gated during fiscal year 2019, as authorized
by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975
(25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain available
until expended by the contractor or grantee:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary shall
not be required to provide a quarterly state-
ment of performance for any Indian trust ac-
count that has not had activity for at least
15 months and has a balance of $15 or less:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
issue an annual account statement and
maintain a record of any such accounts and
shall permit the balance in each such ac-
count to be withdrawn upon the express writ-
ten request of the account holder: Provided
further, That not to exceed $50,000 is avail-
able for the Secretary to make payments to
correct administrative errors of either dis-
bursements from or deposits to Individual
Indian Money or Tribal accounts after Sep-
tember 30, 2002: Provided further, That erro-
neous payments that are recovered shall be
credited to and remain available in this ac-
count for this purpose: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall not be required to rec-
oncile Special Deposit Accounts with a bal-
ance of less than $500 unless the Office of the
Special Trustee receives proof of ownership
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1077
January 23, 2019
from a Special Deposit Accounts claimant:
Provided further, That notwithstanding sec-
tion 102 of the American Indian Trust Fund
Management Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law
103–412) or any other provision of law, the
Secretary may aggregate the trust accounts
of individuals whose whereabouts are un-
known for a continuous period of at least
five years and shall not be required to gen-
erate periodic statements of performance for
the individual accounts: Provided further,
That with respect to the eighth proviso, the
Secretary shall continue to maintain suffi-
cient records to determine the balance of the
individual accounts, including any accrued
interest and income, and such funds shall re-
main available to the individual account
holders.
DEPARTMENT-WIDE PROGRAMS
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for fire prepared-
ness, fire suppression operations, fire science
and research, emergency rehabilitation,
fuels management activities, and rural fire
assistance by the Department of the Inte-
rior, $941,211,000, to remain available until
expended, of which not to exceed $18,427,000
shall be for the renovation or construction of
fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are
also available for repayment of advances to
other appropriation accounts from which
funds were previously transferred for such
purposes: Provided further, That of the funds
provided $189,000,000 is for fuels management
activities: Provided further, That of the funds
provided $20,470,000 is for burned area reha-
bilitation: Provided further, That persons
hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be fur-
nished subsistence and lodging without cost
from funds available from this appropria-
tion: Provided further, That notwithstanding
42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau or
office of the Department of the Interior for
fire protection rendered pursuant to 42
U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United
States property, may be credited to the ap-
propriation from which funds were expended
to provide that protection, and are available
without fiscal year limitation: Provided fur-
ther, That using the amounts designated
under this title of this Act, the Secretary of
the Interior may enter into procurement
contracts, grants, or cooperative agree-
ments, for fuels management activities, and
for training and monitoring associated with
such fuels management activities on Federal
land, or on adjacent non-Federal land for ac-
tivities that benefit resources on Federal
land: Provided further, That the costs of im-
plementing any cooperative agreement be-
tween the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually
agreed on by the affected parties: Provided
further, That notwithstanding requirements
of the Competition in Contracting Act, the
Secretary, for purposes of fuels management
activities, may obtain maximum practicable
competition among: (1) local private, non-
profit, or cooperative entities; (2) Youth Con-
servation Corps crews, Public Lands Corps
(Public Law 109–154), or related partnerships
with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups;
(3) small or micro-businesses; or (4) other en-
tities that will hire or train locally a signifi-
cant percentage, defined as 50 percent or
more, of the project workforce to complete
such contracts: Provided further, That in im-
plementing this section, the Secretary shall
develop written guidance to field units to en-
sure accountability and consistent applica-
tion of the authorities provided herein: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading may be used to reimburse the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service and
the National Marine Fisheries Service for
the costs of carrying out their responsibil-
ities under the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and
conference, as required by section 7 of such
Act, in connection with wildland fire man-
agement activities: Provided further, That
the Secretary of the Interior may use
wildland fire appropriations to enter into
leases of real property with local govern-
ments, at or below fair market value, to con-
struct capitalized improvements for fire fa-
cilities on such leased properties, including
but not limited to fire guard stations, re-
tardant stations, and other initial attack
and fire support facilities, and to make ad-
vance payments for any such lease or for
construction activity associated with the
lease: Provided further, That the Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture
may authorize the transfer of funds appro-
priated for wildland fire management, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000,
between the Departments when such trans-
fers would facilitate and expedite wildland
fire management programs and projects: Pro-
vided further, That funds provided for wildfire
suppression shall be available for support of
Federal emergency response actions: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading shall be available for assistance
to or through the Department of State in
connection with forest and rangeland re-
search, technical information, and assist-
ance in foreign countries, and, with the con-
currence of the Secretary of State, shall be
available to support forestry, wildland fire
management, and related natural resource
activities outside the United States and its
territories and possessions, including tech-
nical assistance, education and training, and
cooperation with United States and inter-
national organizations.
CENTRAL HAZARDOUS MATERIALS FUND
For necessary expenses of the Department
of the Interior and any of its component of-
fices and bureaus for the response action, in-
cluding associated activities, performed pur-
suant to the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), $10,010,000, to remain
available until expended.
NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT
AND RESTORATION
NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT FUND
To conduct natural resource damage as-
sessment, restoration activities, and onshore
oil spill preparedness by the Department of
the Interior necessary to carry out the provi-
sions of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.),
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et
seq.), and 54 U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,767,000,
to remain available until expended.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
For the operation and maintenance of a de-
partmental financial and business manage-
ment system, information technology im-
provements of general benefit to the Depart-
ment, cybersecurity, and the consolidation
of facilities and operations throughout the
Department, $55,735,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That none of the
funds appropriated in this Act or any other
Act may be used to establish reserves in the
Working Capital Fund account other than
for accrued annual leave and depreciation of
equipment without prior approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate: Provided
further, That the Secretary may assess rea-
sonable charges to State, local and tribal
government employees for training services
provided by the National Indian Program
Training Center, other than training related
to Public Law 93–638: Provided further, That
the Secretary may lease or otherwise provide
space and related facilities, equipment or
professional services of the National Indian
Program Training Center to State, local and
tribal government employees or persons or
organizations engaged in cultural, edu-
cational, or recreational activities (as de-
fined in section 3306(a) of title 40, United
States Code) at the prevailing rate for simi-
lar space, facilities, equipment, or services
in the vicinity of the National Indian Pro-
gram Training Center: Provided further, That
all funds received pursuant to the two pre-
ceding provisos shall be credited to this ac-
count, shall be available until expended, and
shall be used by the Secretary for necessary
expenses of the National Indian Program
Training Center: Provided further, That the
Secretary may enter into grants and cooper-
ative agreements to support the Office of
Natural Resource Revenue’s collection and
disbursement of royalties, fees, and other
mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by
law.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION
There is hereby authorized for acquisition
from available resources within the Working
Capital Fund, aircraft which may be ob-
tained by donation, purchase or through
available excess surplus property: Provided,
That existing aircraft being replaced may be
sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value
used to offset the purchase price for the re-
placement aircraft.
OFFICE OF NATURAL RESOURCES REVENUE
For necessary expenses for management of
the collection and disbursement of royalties,
fees, and other mineral revenue proceeds,
and for grants and cooperative agreements,
as authorized by law, $137,505,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020; of which
$41,727,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for the purpose of mineral revenue
management activities: Provided, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law,
$15,000 shall be available for refunds of over-
payments in connection with certain Indian
leases in which the Secretary concurred with
the claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed
to Indian allottees or tribes, or to correct
prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.
GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
EMERGENCY TRANSFER AUTHORITY—INTRA-
BUREAU
SEC. 101. Appropriations made in this title
shall be available for expenditure or transfer
(within each bureau or office), with the ap-
proval of the Secretary, for the emergency
reconstruction, replacement, or repair of air-
craft, buildings, utilities, or other facilities
or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire,
flood, storm, or other unavoidable causes:
Provided, That no funds shall be made avail-
able under this authority until funds specifi-
cally made available to the Department of
the Interior for emergencies shall have been
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds
used pursuant to this section must be replen-
ished by a supplemental appropriation,
which must be requested as promptly as pos-
sible.
EMERGENCY TRANSFER AUTHORITY—
DEPARTMENT-WIDE
SEC. 102. The Secretary may authorize the
expenditure or transfer of any no year appro-
priation in this title, in addition to the
amounts included in the budget programs of
the several agencies, for the suppression or
emergency prevention of wildland fires on or
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of
the Department of the Interior; for the emer-
gency rehabilitation of burned-over lands
under its jurisdiction; for emergency actions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1078 January 23, 2019
related to potential or actual earthquakes,
floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoid-
able causes; for contingency planning subse-
quent to actual oil spills; for response and
natural resource damage assessment activi-
ties related to actual oil spills or releases of
hazardous substances into the environment;
for the prevention, suppression, and control
of actual or potential grasshopper and Mor-
mon cricket outbreaks on lands under the ju-
risdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the
authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106–
224 (7 U.S.C. 7717(b)); for emergency reclama-
tion projects under section 410 of Public Law
95–87; and shall transfer, from any no year
funds available to the Office of Surface Min-
ing Reclamation and Enforcement, such
funds as may be necessary to permit assump-
tion of regulatory authority in the event a
primacy State is not carrying out the regu-
latory provisions of the Surface Mining Act:
Provided, That appropriations made in this
title for wildland fire operations shall be
available for the payment of obligations in-
curred during the preceding fiscal year, and
for reimbursement to other Federal agencies
for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other
equipment in connection with their use for
wildland fire operations, with such reim-
bursement to be credited to appropriations
currently available at the time of receipt
thereof: Provided further, That for wildland
fire operations, no funds shall be made avail-
able under this authority until the Secretary
determines that funds appropriated for
‘‘wildland fire suppression’’ shall be ex-
hausted within 30 days: Provided further,
That all funds used pursuant to this section
must be replenished by a supplemental ap-
propriation, which must be requested as
promptly as possible: Provided further, That
such replenishment funds shall be used to re-
imburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from
which emergency funds were transferred.
AUTHORIZED USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 103. Appropriations made to the De-
partment of the Interior in this title shall be
available for services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, when
authorized by the Secretary, in total amount
not to exceed $500,000; purchase and replace-
ment of motor vehicles, including specially
equipped law enforcement vehicles; hire,
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire
of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of re-
prints; payment for telephone service in pri-
vate residences in the field, when authorized
under regulations approved by the Secretary;
and the payment of dues, when authorized by
the Secretary, for library membership in so-
cieties or associations which issue publica-
tions to members only or at a price to mem-
bers lower than to subscribers who are not
members.
AUTHORIZED USE OF FUNDS, INDIAN TRUST
MANAGEMENT
SEC. 104. Appropriations made in this Act
under the headings Bureau of Indian Affairs
and Bureau of Indian Education, and Office
of the Special Trustee for American Indians
and any unobligated balances from prior ap-
propriations Acts made under the same head-
ings shall be available for expenditure or
transfer for Indian trust management and re-
form activities. Total funding for historical
accounting activities shall not exceed
amounts specifically designated in this Act
for such purpose.
REDISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS, BUREAU OF INDIAN
AFFAIRS
SEC. 105. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to redistribute any Tribal Pri-
ority Allocation funds, including tribal base
funds, to alleviate tribal funding inequities
by transferring funds to address identified,
unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping
service areas or inaccurate distribution
methodologies. No tribe shall receive a re-
duction in Tribal Priority Allocation funds
of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 2019.
Under circumstances of dual enrollment,
overlapping service areas or inaccurate dis-
tribution methodologies, the 10 percent limi-
tation does not apply.
ELLIS, GOVERNORS, AND LIBERTY ISLANDS
SEC. 106. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to acquire lands, waters, or inter-
ests therein including the use of all or part
of any pier, dock, or landing within the
State of New York and the State of New Jer-
sey, for the purpose of operating and main-
taining facilities in the support of transpor-
tation and accommodation of visitors to
Ellis, Governors, and Liberty Islands, and of
other program and administrative activities,
by donation or with appropriated funds, in-
cluding franchise fees (and other monetary
consideration), or by exchange; and the Sec-
retary is authorized to negotiate and enter
into leases, subleases, concession contracts
or other agreements for the use of such fa-
cilities on such terms and conditions as the
Secretary may determine reasonable.
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF INSPECTION FEES
SEC. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary shall collect a nonrefundable inspec-
tion fee, which shall be deposited in the ‘‘Off-
shore Safety and Environmental Enforce-
ment’’ account, from the designated operator
for facilities subject to inspection under 43
U.S.C. 1348(c).
(b) Annual fees shall be collected for facili-
ties that are above the waterline, excluding
drilling rigs, and are in place at the start of
the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2019 shall
be:
(1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but
with processing equipment or gathering
lines;
(2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells,
with any combination of active or inactive
wells; and
(3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10
wells, with any combination of active or in-
active wells.
(c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed
for all inspections completed in fiscal year
2019. Fees for fiscal year 2019 shall be:
(1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of 500 feet or more; and
(2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of less than 500 feet.
(d) The Secretary shall bill designated op-
erators under subsection (b) within 60 days,
with payment required within 30 days of bill-
ing. The Secretary shall bill designated oper-
ators under subsection (c) within 30 days of
the end of the month in which the inspection
occurred, with payment required within 30
days of billing.
BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT, REG-
ULATION AND ENFORCEMENT REORGANIZATION
SEC. 108. The Secretary of the Interior, in
order to implement a reorganization of the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regu-
lation and Enforcement, may transfer funds
among and between the successor offices and
bureaus affected by the reorganization only
in conformance with the reprogramming
guidelines described in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act).
CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS FOR WILD HORSE
AND BURRO HOLDING FACILITIES
SEC. 109. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior
may enter into multiyear cooperative agree-
ments with nonprofit organizations and
other appropriate entities, and may enter
into multiyear contracts in accordance with
the provisions of section 3903 of title 41,
United States Code (except that the 5-year
term restriction in subsection (a) shall not
apply), for the long-term care and mainte-
nance of excess wild free roaming horses and
burros by such organizations or entities on
private land. Such cooperative agreements
and contracts may not exceed 10 years, sub-
ject to renewal at the discretion of the Sec-
retary.
MASS MARKING OF SALMONIDS
SEC. 110. The United States Fish and Wild-
life Service shall, in carrying out its respon-
sibilities to protect threatened and endan-
gered species of salmon, implement a system
of mass marking of salmonid stocks, in-
tended for harvest, that are released from
federally operated or federally financed
hatcheries including but not limited to fish
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead spe-
cies. Marked fish must have a visible mark
that can be readily identified by commercial
and recreational fishers.
CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH INDIAN
AFFAIRS
SEC. 111. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, during fiscal year 2019, in car-
rying out work involving cooperation with
State, local, and tribal governments or any
political subdivision thereof, Indian Affairs
may record obligations against accounts re-
ceivable from any such entities, except that
total obligations at the end of the fiscal year
shall not exceed total budgetary resources
available at the end of the fiscal year.
HUMANE TRANSFER OF EXCESS ANIMALS
SEC. 112. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior
may transfer excess wild horses or burros
that have been removed from the public
lands to other Federal, State, and local gov-
ernment agencies for use as work animals:
Provided, That the Secretary may make any
such transfer immediately upon request of
such Federal, State, or local government
agency: Provided further, That any excess
animal transferred under this provision shall
lose its status as a wild free-roaming horse
or burro as defined in the Wild Free-Roaming
Horses and Burros Act: Provided further, That
any Federal, State, or local government
agency receiving excess wild horses or burros
as authorized in this section shall not: de-
stroy the horses or burros in a way that re-
sults in their destruction into commercial
products; sell or otherwise transfer the
horses or burros in a way that results in
their destruction for processing into com-
mercial products; or euthanize the horses or
burros except upon the recommendation of a
licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe in-
jury, illness, or advanced age.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR EXPERIENCED
SERVICES PROGRAM
SEC. 113. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law relating to Federal grants
and cooperative agreements, the Secretary
of the Interior is authorized to make grants
to, or enter into cooperative agreements
with, private nonprofit organizations des-
ignated by the Secretary of Labor under title
V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to uti-
lize the talents of older Americans in pro-
grams authorized by other provisions of law
administered by the Secretary and con-
sistent with such provisions of law.
(b) Prior to awarding any grant or agree-
ment under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall ensure that the agreement would not—
(1) result in the displacement of individ-
uals currently employed by the Department,
including partial displacement through re-
duction of non-overtime hours, wages, or em-
ployment benefits;
(2) result in the use of an individual under
the Department of the Interior Experienced
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1079
January 23, 2019
Services Program for a job or function in a
case in which a Federal employee is in a lay-
off status from the same or substantially
equivalent job within the Department; or
(3) affect existing contracts for services.
CONTRIBUTION AUTHORITY
SEC. 114. Section 113 of Division G of Public
Law 113–76 is amended by striking ‘‘2019,’’
and inserting ‘‘2024,’’.
INDIANA DUNES NATIONAL LAKESHORE RE-
TITLED; PAUL H. DOUGLAS TRAIL REDESIGNA-
TION
SEC. 115. (a) INDIANA DUNES NATIONAL LAKE
SHORE RETITLED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Public Law 89–761 (16
U.S.C. 460u et seq.) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘National Lakeshore’’ and
‘‘national lakeshore’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘National Park’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘lakeshore’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘Park’’.
(2) NONAPPLICATION.—The amendment
made by subsection (a)(1) shall not apply
to—
(A) the title of the map referred to in the
first section of Public Law 89–761 (16 U.S.C.
460u); and
(B) the title of the maps referred to in sec-
tion 4 of Public Law 89–761 (16 U.S.C. 460u–3).
(b) PAUL H. DOUGLAS TRAIL REDESIGNA-
TION.—The 1.6 mile trail within the Indiana
Dunes National Park designated the ‘‘Miller-
Woods Trail’’ is hereby redesignated as the
‘‘Paul H. Douglas Trail’’.
PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES (PILT)
SEC. 116. Section 6906 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2019’’.
TECHNICAL CORRECTION
SEC. 117. Division II of Public Law 104–333
(54 U.S.C. 320101 note), as amended by section
116(b)(2) of Public Law 114–113, is amended in
each of sections 208, 310, and 607, by striking
‘‘2017’’ and inserting ‘‘2019’’.
DESIGNATION OF PETER B. WEBSTER III
MEMORIAL AREA
SEC. 118. (a)(1) The rest area bound by Al-
exandria Avenue, West Boulevard Drive, and
the George Washington Memorial Parkway
on the Mount Vernon Trail within the
George Washington Memorial Parkway is
designated as the ‘‘Peter B. Webster III Me-
morial Area’’.
(2) Any reference in a law, map, regulation,
document, paper, or other record of the
United States to the rest area described in
paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a ref-
erence to the ‘‘Peter B. Webster III Memorial
Area’’.
(b)(1) A plaque honoring Peter B. Webster
III may be installed at the Peter B. Webster
III Memorial Area on a signpost, bench, or
other appropriate structure, on the condition
that the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice shall approve the design and placement
of the plaque.
(2) No Federal funds may be used to design,
procure, prepare, or install the plaque au-
thorized under paragraph (1).
(3) The Secretary of the Interior may ac-
cept and expend private contributions for the
design, procurement, preparation, and instal-
lation of the plaque authorized under para-
graph (1).
OBLIGATION OF FUNDS
SEC. 119. Amounts appropriated by this Act
to the Department of the Interior shall be
available for obligation and expenditure not
later than 60 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SAGE-GROUSE
SEC. 120. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used by the
Secretary of the Interior to write or issue
pursuant to section 4 of the Endangered Spe-
cies Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533)—
(1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse
(Centrocercus urophasianus);
(2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin
distinct population segment of greater sage-
grouse.
TITLE II
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For science and technology, including re-
search and development activities, which
shall include research and development ac-
tivities under the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980; necessary expenses for per-
sonnel and related costs and travel expenses;
procurement of laboratory equipment and
supplies; and other operating expenses in
support of research and development,
$717,723,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That of the funds
included under this heading, $5,000,000 shall
be for Research: National Priorities as speci-
fied in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act): Provided further,
That of the unobligated balances from appro-
priations made available under this heading,
$11,250,000 are permanently rescinded: Pro-
vided further, That no amounts may be re-
scinded pursuant to the preceding proviso
from amounts made available in the first
proviso for Research: National Priorities.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For environmental programs and manage-
ment, including necessary expenses, not oth-
erwise provided for, for personnel and related
costs and travel expenses; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and oper-
ation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; li-
brary memberships in societies or associa-
tions which issue publications to members
only or at a price to members lower than to
subscribers who are not members; adminis-
trative costs of the brownfields program
under the Small Business Liability Relief
and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 2002;
implementation of a coal combustion resid-
ual permit program under section 2301 of the
Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to ex-
ceed $9,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $2,658,200,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That of the funds included under this
heading, $15,000,000 shall be for Environ-
mental Protection: National Priorities as
specified in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act): Provided
further, That of the funds included under this
heading, $456,958,000 shall be for Geographic
Programs specified in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act): Provided further, That of the unobli-
gated balances from appropriations made
available under this heading, $60,201,000 are
permanently rescinded: Provided further,
That no amounts may be rescinded pursuant
to the preceding proviso from amounts made
available in the first proviso for Environ-
mental Protection: National Priorities, from
amounts made available in the second pro-
viso for Geographic Programs, or from the
National Estuary Program (33 U.S.C. 1330).
In addition, $5,000,000 to remain available
until expended, for necessary expenses of ac-
tivities described in section 26(b)(1) of the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.
2625(b)(1)): Provided, That fees collected pur-
suant to that section of that Act and depos-
ited in the ‘‘TSCA Service Fee Fund’’ as dis-
cretionary offsetting receipts in fiscal year
2019 shall be retained and used for necessary
salaries and expenses in this appropriation
and shall remain available until expended:
Provided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated in this paragraph from the general
fund for fiscal year 2019 shall be reduced by
the amount of discretionary offsetting re-
ceipts received during fiscal year 2019, so as
to result in a final fiscal year 2019 appropria-
tion from the general fund estimated at not
more than $0: Provided further, That to the
extent that amounts realized from such re-
ceipts exceed $5,000,000, those amount in ex-
cess of $5,000,000 shall be deposited in the
‘‘TSCA Service Fee Fund’’ as discretionary
offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2019, shall be
retained and used for necessary salaries and
expenses in this account, and shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That of the funds included in the first para-
graph under this heading, the Chemical Risk
Review and Reduction program project shall
be allocated for this fiscal year, excluding
the amount of any fees appropriated, not less
than the amount of appropriations for that
program project for fiscal year 2014.
HAZARDOUS WASTE ELECTRONIC MANIFEST
SYSTEM FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out sec-
tion 3024 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6939g), including the development, op-
eration, maintenance, and upgrading of the
hazardous waste electronic manifest system
established by such section, $8,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That the sum herein appropriated from the
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting
collections under such section 3024 are re-
ceived during fiscal year 2019, which shall re-
main available until expended and be used
for necessary expenses in this appropriation,
so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019 ap-
propriation from the general fund estimated
at not more than $0: Provided further, That to
the extent such offsetting collections re-
ceived in fiscal year 2019 exceed $8,000,000,
those excess amounts shall remain available
until expended and be used for necessary ex-
penses in this appropriation.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$41,489,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For construction, repair, improvement, ex-
tension, alteration, and purchase of fixed
equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the
Environmental Protection Agency,
$34,467,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SUPERFUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA), including sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5),
(c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611) $1,091,947,000,
to remain available until expended, con-
sisting of such sums as are available in the
Trust Fund on September 30, 2018, as author-
ized by section 517(a) of the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
1986 (SARA) and up to $1,091,947,000 as a pay-
ment from general revenues to the Haz-
ardous Substance Superfund for purposes as
authorized by section 517(b) of SARA: Pro-
vided, That funds appropriated under this
heading may be allocated to other Federal
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of
CERCLA: Provided further, That of the funds
appropriated under this heading, $8,778,000
shall be paid to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ appropriation to remain available until
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1080 January 23, 2019
September 30, 2020, and $15,496,000 shall be
paid to the ‘‘Science and Technology’’ appro-
priation to remain available until September
30, 2020.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out leak-
ing underground storage tank cleanup activi-
ties authorized by subtitle I of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, $91,941,000, to remain
available until expended, of which $66,572,000
shall be for carrying out leaking under-
ground storage tank cleanup activities au-
thorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying
out the other provisions of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) of
the Internal Revenue Code: Provided, That
the Administrator is authorized to use ap-
propriations made available under this head-
ing to implement section 9013 of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act to provide financial as-
sistance to federally recognized Indian tribes
for the development and implementation of
programs to manage underground storage
tanks.
INLAND OIL SPILL PROGRAMS
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Environmental Protection Agency’s respon-
sibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,
$18,209,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill
Liability trust fund, to remain available
until expended.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For environmental programs and infra-
structure assistance, including capitaliza-
tion grants for State revolving funds and
performance partnership grants,
$3,605,041,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which—
(1) $1,394,000,000 shall be for making cap-
italization grants for the Clean Water State
Revolving Funds under title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act; and of
which $864,000,000 shall be for making cap-
italization grants for the Drinking Water
State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided, That
for fiscal year 2019, to the extent there are
sufficient eligible project applications and
projects are consistent with State Intended
Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the
funds made available under this title to each
State for Clean Water State Revolving Fund
capitalization grants shall be used by the
State for projects to address green infra-
structure, water or energy efficiency im-
provements, or other environmentally inno-
vative activities: Provided further, That for
fiscal year 2019, funds made available under
this title to each State for Drinking Water
State Revolving Fund capitalization grants
may, at the discretion of each State, be used
for projects to address green infrastructure,
water or energy efficiency improvements, or
other environmentally innovative activities:
Provided further, That notwithstanding sec-
tion 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, the limitation on the amounts
in a State water pollution control revolving
fund that may be used by a State to admin-
ister the fund shall not apply to amounts in-
cluded as principal in loans made by such
fund in fiscal year 2019 and prior years where
such amounts represent costs of admin-
istering the fund to the extent that such
amounts are or were deemed reasonable by
the Administrator, accounted for separately
from other assets in the fund, and used for
eligible purposes of the fund, including ad-
ministration: Provided further, That for fiscal
year 2019, notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
grants made under title II of such Act for
American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth
of the Northern Marianas, the United States
Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia
may also be made for the purpose of pro-
viding assistance: (1) solely for facility
plans, design activities, or plans, specifica-
tions, and estimates for any proposed project
for the construction of treatment works; and
(2) for the construction, repair, or replace-
ment of privately owned treatment works
serving one or more principal residences or
small commercial establishments: Provided
further, That for fiscal year 2019, notwith-
standing the provisions of such subsections
(g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section
518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, funds reserved by the Administrator for
grants under section 518(c) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act may also be
used to provide assistance: (1) solely for fa-
cility plans, design activities, or plans, spec-
ifications, and estimates for any proposed
project for the construction of treatment
works; and (2) for the construction, repair, or
replacement of privately owned treatment
works serving one or more principal resi-
dences or small commercial establishments:
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019,
notwithstanding any provision of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act and regula-
tions issued pursuant thereof, up to a total
of $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by the Ad-
ministrator for grants under section 518(c) of
such Act may also be used for grants for
training, technical assistance, and edu-
cational programs relating to the operation
and management of the treatment works
specified in section 518(c) of such Act: Pro-
vided further, That for fiscal year 2019, funds
reserved under section 518(c) of such Act
shall be available for grants only to Indian
tribes, as defined in section 518(h) of such
Act and former Indian reservations in Okla-
homa (as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior) and Native Villages as defined in
Public Law 92–203: Provided further, That for
fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding the limita-
tion on amounts in section 518(c) of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act, up to a
total of 2 percent of the funds appropriated,
or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and not-
withstanding the limitation on amounts in
section 1452(i) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds
appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is
greater, for State Revolving Funds under
such Acts may be reserved by the Adminis-
trator for grants under section 518(c) and
section 1452(i) of such Acts: Provided further,
That for fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding
the amounts specified in section 205(c) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to
1.5 percent of the aggregate funds appro-
priated for the Clean Water State Revolving
Fund program under the Act less any sums
reserved under section 518(c) of the Act, may
be reserved by the Administrator for grants
made under title II of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act for American Samoa,
Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Marianas, and United States Virgin Islands:
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2019,
notwithstanding the limitations on amounts
specified in section 1452(j) of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of the funds
appropriated for the Drinking Water State
Revolving Fund programs under the Safe
Drinking Water Act may be reserved by the
Administrator for grants made under section
1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Pro-
vided further, That 10 percent of the funds
made available under this title to each State
for Clean Water State Revolving Fund cap-
italization grants and 20 percent of the funds
made available under this title to each State
for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund
capitalization grants shall be used by the
State to provide additional subsidy to eligi-
ble recipients in the form of forgiveness of
principal, negative interest loans, or grants
(or any combination of these), and shall be
so used by the State only where such funds
are provided as initial financing for an eligi-
ble recipient or to buy, refinance, or restruc-
ture the debt obligations of eligible recipi-
ents only where such debt was incurred on or
after the date of enactment of this Act, or
where such debt was incurred prior to the
date of enactment of this Act if the State,
with concurrence from the Administrator,
determines that such funds could be used to
help address a threat to public health from
heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water or if a Federal or State emergency
declaration has been issued due to a threat
to public health from heightened exposure to
lead in a municipal drinking water supply
before the date of enactment of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That in a State in which such
an emergency declaration has been issued,
the State may use more than 20 percent of
the funds made available under this title to
the State for Drinking Water State Revolv-
ing Fund capitalization grants to provide ad-
ditional subsidy to eligible recipients;
(2) $15,000,000 shall be for architectural, en-
gineering, planning, design, construction and
related activities in connection with the
construction of high priority water and
wastewater facilities in the area of the
United States-Mexico Border, after consulta-
tion with the appropriate border commis-
sion: Provided, That no funds provided by
this appropriations Act to address the water,
wastewater and other critical infrastructure
needs of the colonias in the United States
along the United States-Mexico border shall
be made available to a county or municipal
government unless that government has es-
tablished an enforceable local ordinance, or
other zoning rule, which prevents in that ju-
risdiction the development or construction
of any additional colonia areas, or the devel-
opment within an existing colonia the con-
struction of any new home, business, or
other structure which lacks water, waste-
water, or other necessary infrastructure;
(3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants to the
State of Alaska to address drinking water
and wastewater infrastructure needs of rural
and Alaska Native Villages: Provided, That of
these funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall
provide a match of 25 percent; (B) no more
than 5 percent of the funds may be used for
administrative and overhead expenses; and
(C) the State of Alaska shall make awards
consistent with the Statewide priority list
established in conjunction with the Agency
and the U.S. Department of Agriculture for
all water, sewer, waste disposal, and similar
projects carried out by the State of Alaska
that are funded under section 221 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
1301) or the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which
shall allocate not less than 25 percent of the
funds provided for projects in regional hub
communities;
(4) $87,000,000 shall be to carry out section
104(k) of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, inter-
agency agreements, and associated program
support costs: Provided, That not more than
25 percent of the amount appropriated to
carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be
used for site characterization, assessment,
and remediation of facilities described in
section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA: Provided
further, That at least 10 percent shall be allo-
cated for assistance in persistent poverty
counties: Provided further, That for purposes
of this section, the term ‘‘persistent poverty
counties’’ means any county that has had 20
percent or more of its population living in
poverty over the past 30 years, as measured
by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1081
January 23, 2019
the most recent Small Area Income and Pov-
erty Estimates;
(5) $87,000,000 shall be for grants under title
VII, subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of
2005;
(6) $52,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed
grants in accordance with the terms and con-
ditions in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act);
(7) $4,000,000 shall be to carry out the water
quality program authorized in section 5004(d)
of the Water Infrastructure Improvements
for the Nation Act (Public Law 114–322); and
(8) $1,077,041,000 shall be for grants, includ-
ing associated program support costs, to
States, federally recognized tribes, inter-
state agencies, tribal consortia, and air pol-
lution control agencies for multi-media or
single media pollution prevention, control
and abatement and related activities, includ-
ing activities pursuant to the provisions set
forth under this heading in Public Law 104–
134, and for making grants under section 103
of the Clean Air Act for particulate matter
monitoring and data collection activities
subject to terms and conditions specified by
the Administrator, of which: $47,745,000 shall
be for carrying out section 128 of CERCLA;
$9,646,000 shall be for Environmental Infor-
mation Exchange Network grants, including
associated program support costs; $1,498,000
shall be for grants to States under section
2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
which shall be in addition to funds appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘Leaking Under-
ground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program’’
to carry out the provisions of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act specified in section
9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other
than section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste Dis-
posal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds available
for grants under section 106 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act shall be for
State participation in national- and State-
level statistical surveys of water resources
and enhancements to State monitoring pro-
grams; $11,000,000 shall be for multipurpose
grants, including interagency agreements.
WATER INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND
INNOVATION PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of direct loans and for the cost
of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innova-
tion Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the cost of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That these funds are available to
subsidize gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans, including capitalized
interest, and total loan principal, including
capitalized interest, any part of which is to
be guaranteed, not to exceed $610,000,000.
In addition, fees authorized to be collected
pursuant to sections 5029 and 5030 of the
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innova-
tion Act of 2014 shall be deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until expended.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan
programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of
the Water Infrastructure Finance and Inno-
vation Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS AND RESCISSION OF
FUNDS)
For fiscal year 2019, notwithstanding 31
U.S.C. 6303(1) and 6305(1), the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, in
carrying out the Agency’s function to imple-
ment directly Federal environmental pro-
grams required or authorized by law in the
absence of an acceptable tribal program,
may award cooperative agreements to feder-
ally recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal
consortia, if authorized by their member
tribes, to assist the Administrator in imple-
menting Federal environmental programs
for Indian tribes required or authorized by
law, except that no such cooperative agree-
ments may be awarded from funds des-
ignated for State financial assistance agree-
ments.
The Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency is authorized to collect
and obligate pesticide registration service
fees in accordance with section 33 of the Fed-
eral Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
Act, as amended by Public Law 112–177, the
Pesticide Registration Improvement Exten-
sion Act of 2012.
Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(d)(2)), the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency may assess fees
under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w–8)
for fiscal year 2019.
The Administrator is authorized to trans-
fer up to $300,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated for the Great Lakes Restoration Ini-
tiative under the heading ‘‘Environmental
Programs and Management’’ to the head of
any Federal department or agency, with the
concurrence of such head, to carry out ac-
tivities that would support the Great Lakes
Restoration Initiative and Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement programs,
projects, or activities; to enter into an inter-
agency agreement with the head of such Fed-
eral department or agency to carry out these
activities; and to make grants to govern-
mental entities, nonprofit organizations, in-
stitutions, and individuals for planning, re-
search, monitoring, outreach, and implemen-
tation in furtherance of the Great Lakes
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement.
The Science and Technology, Environ-
mental Programs and Management, Office of
Inspector General, Hazardous Substance
Superfund, and Leaking Underground Stor-
age Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are
available for the construction, alteration, re-
pair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facili-
ties, provided that the cost does not exceed
$150,000 per project.
For fiscal year 2019, and notwithstanding
section 518(f) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), the Adminis-
trator is authorized to use the amounts ap-
propriated for any fiscal year under section
319 of the Act to make grants to Indian
tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) and 518(e)
of that Act.
The Administrator is authorized to use the
amounts appropriated under the heading
‘‘Environmental Programs and Manage-
ment’’ for fiscal year 2019 to provide grants
to implement the Southeastern New England
Watershed Restoration Program.
Of the unobligated balances available for
the ‘‘State and Tribal Assistance Grants’’ ac-
count, $139,078,000 are hereby permanently
rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
from amounts that were made available by
subsection (a) of section 196 of the Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2017 (division C
of Public Law 114–223), as amended by the
Further Continuing and Security Assistance
Appropriations Act, 2017 (Public Law 114–
254).
Notwithstanding the limitations on
amounts in section 320(i)(2)(B) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act, not less than
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this title for the National Estuary Program
shall be for making competitive awards de-
scribed in section 320(g)(4).
TITLE III
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Natural Resources and
Environment, $875,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to any agency in
the Natural Resources and Environment mis-
sion area for salaries and expenses are avail-
able to fund up to one administrative sup-
port staff for the office.
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For necessary expenses of forest and range-
land research as authorized by law,
$300,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2022: Provided, That of the funds
provided, $77,000,000 is for the forest inven-
tory and analysis program: Provided further,
That all authorities for the use of funds, in-
cluding the use of contracts, grants, and co-
operative agreements, available to execute
the Forest and Rangeland Research appro-
priation, are also available in the utilization
of these funds for Fire Science Research.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of cooperating with
and providing technical and financial assist-
ance to States, territories, possessions, and
others, and for forest health management,
and conducting an international program as
authorized, $336,990,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2022, as authorized by
law; of which $63,990,000 is to be derived from
the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be
used for the Forest Legacy Program, to re-
main available until expended.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for the Forest Legacy Pro-
gram and derived from the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, $1,503,000 is hereby per-
manently rescinded from projects with cost
savings or failed or partially failed projects
that had funds returned: Provided, That no
amounts may be rescinded from amounts
that were designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Con-
current Resolution on the Budget or the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice, not otherwise provided for, for manage-
ment, protection, improvement, and utiliza-
tion of the National Forest System, and for
hazardous fuels management on or adjacent
to such lands, $1,938,000,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2022: Provided,
That of the funds provided, $40,000,000 shall
be deposited in the Collaborative Forest
Landscape Restoration Fund for ecological
restoration treatments as authorized by 16
U.S.C. 7303(f): Provided further, That of the
funds provided, $368,000,000 shall be for forest
products: Provided further, That of the funds
provided, $435,000,000 shall be for hazardous
fuels management activities, of which not to
exceed $15,000,000 may be used to make
grants, using any authorities available to
the Forest Service under the ‘‘State and Pri-
vate Forestry’’ appropriation, for the pur-
pose of creating incentives for increased use
of biomass from National Forest System
lands: Provided further, That $20,000,000 may
be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to
enter into procurement contracts or coopera-
tive agreements or to issue grants for haz-
ardous fuels management activities, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1082 January 23, 2019
training or monitoring associated with such
hazardous fuels management activities on
Federal land, or on non-Federal land if the
Secretary determines such activities benefit
resources on Federal land: Provided further,
That funds made available to implement the
Community Forestry Restoration Act, Pub-
lic Law 106–393, title VI, shall be available
for use on non-Federal lands in accordance
with authorities made available to the For-
est Service under the ‘‘State and Private
Forestry’’ appropriations: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 33 of the
Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C.
1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in calcu-
lating a fee for grazing on a National Grass-
land, may provide a credit of up to 50 percent
of the calculated fee to a Grazing Associa-
tion or direct permittee for a conservation
practice approved by the Secretary in ad-
vance of the fiscal year in which the cost of
the conservation practice is incurred. And,
that the amount credited shall remain avail-
able to the Grazing Association or the direct
permittee, as appropriate, in the fiscal year
in which the credit is made and each fiscal
year thereafter for use on the project for
conservation practices approved by the Sec-
retary.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice, not otherwise provided for, $446,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2022, for construction, capital improvement,
maintenance and acquisition of buildings
and other facilities and infrastructure; and
for construction, reconstruction, decommis-
sioning of roads that are no longer needed,
including unauthorized roads that are not
part of the transportation system, and main-
tenance of forest roads and trails by the For-
est Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532–538
and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, That
funds becoming available in fiscal year 2019
under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501)
shall be transferred to the General Fund of
the Treasury and shall not be available for
transfer or obligation for any other purpose
unless the funds are appropriated.
LAND ACQUISITION
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of chapter 2003 of title 54, United
States Code, including administrative ex-
penses, and for acquisition of land or waters,
or interest therein, in accordance with statu-
tory authority applicable to the Forest Serv-
ice, $72,564,000, to be derived from the Land
and Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended.
ACQUISITION OF LANDS FOR NATIONAL FORESTS
SPECIAL ACTS
For acquisition of lands within the exte-
rior boundaries of the Cache, Uinta, and
Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe
National Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles,
San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland Na-
tional Forests, California; and the Ozark-St.
Francis and Ouachita National Forests, Ar-
kansas; as authorized by law, $700,000, to be
derived from forest receipts.
ACQUISITION OF LANDS TO COMPLETE LAND
EXCHANGES
For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be
derived from funds deposited by State, coun-
ty, or municipal governments, public school
districts, or other public school authorities,
and for authorized expenditures from funds
deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to
the Act of December 4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a),
to remain available through September 30,
2022, (16 U.S.C. 516–617a, 555a; Public Law 96–
586; Public Law 76–589, 76–591; and Public Law
78–310).
RANGE BETTERMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of range rehabilita-
tion, protection, and improvement, 50 per-
cent of all moneys received during the prior
fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic live-
stock on lands in National Forests in the 16
Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1)
of Public Law 94–579, to remain available
through September 30, 2022, of which not to
exceed 6 percent shall be available for ad-
ministrative expenses associated with on-
the-ground range rehabilitation, protection,
and improvements.
GIFTS, DONATIONS AND BEQUESTS FOR FOREST
AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C.
1643(b), $45,000, to remain available through
September 30, 2022, to be derived from the
fund established pursuant to the above Act.
MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL FOREST LANDS FOR
SUBSISTENCE USES
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice to manage Federal lands in Alaska for
subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alas-
ka National Interest Lands Conservation Act
(16 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), $2,500,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for forest fire
presuppression activities on National Forest
System lands, for emergency wildland fire
suppression on or adjacent to such lands or
other lands under fire protection agreement,
and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-
over National Forest System lands and
water, $3,004,986,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2022: Provided, That
such funds including unobligated balances
under this heading, are available for repay-
ment of advances from other appropriations
accounts previously transferred for such pur-
poses: Provided further, That any unobligated
funds appropriated in a previous fiscal year
for hazardous fuels management may be
transferred to the ‘‘National Forest System’’
account: Provided further, That such funds
shall be available to reimburse State and
other cooperating entities for services pro-
vided in response to wildfire and other emer-
gencies or disasters to the extent such reim-
bursements by the Forest Service for non-
fire emergencies are fully repaid by the re-
sponsible emergency management agency:
Provided further, That funds provided shall be
available for support to Federal emergency
response: Provided further, That the costs of
implementing any cooperative agreement be-
tween the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually
agreed on by the affected parties: Provided
further, That funds designated for wildfire
suppression, shall be assessed for cost pools
on the same basis as such assessments are
calculated against other agency programs.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FOREST SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Appropriations to the Forest Service for
the current fiscal year shall be available for:
(1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; ac-
quisition of passenger motor vehicles from
excess sources, and hire of such vehicles;
purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and
acquisition of aircraft to maintain the oper-
able fleet for use in Forest Service wildland
fire programs and other Forest Service pro-
grams; notwithstanding other provisions of
law, existing aircraft being replaced may be
sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value
used to offset the purchase price for the re-
placement aircraft; (2) services pursuant to 7
U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for em-
ployment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase,
erection, and alteration of buildings and
other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4)
acquisition of land, waters, and interests
therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) for ex-
penses pursuant to the Volunteers in the Na-
tional Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d,
and 558a note); (6) the cost of uniforms as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; and (7) for debt
collection contracts in accordance with 31
U.S.C. 3718(c).
Any appropriations or funds available to
the Forest Service may be transferred to the
Wildland Fire Management appropriation for
forest firefighting, emergency rehabilitation
of burned-over or damaged lands or waters
under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness
due to severe burning conditions upon the
Secretary’s notification of the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations that
all fire suppression funds appropriated under
the heading ‘‘Wildland Fire Management’’
will be obligated within 30 days: Provided,
That all funds used pursuant to this para-
graph must be replenished by a supplemental
appropriation which must be requested as
promptly as possible.
Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appro-
priated to the Forest Service shall be avail-
able for expenditure or transfer to the De-
partment of the Interior for wildland fire
management, hazardous fuels management,
and State fire assistance when such transfers
would facilitate and expedite wildland fire
management programs and projects.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the Forest Service may transfer un-
obligated balances of discretionary funds ap-
propriated to the Forest Service by this Act
to or within the National Forest System Ac-
count, or reprogram funds to be used for the
purposes of hazardous fuels management and
urgent rehabilitation of burned-over Na-
tional Forest System lands and water, such
transferred funds shall remain available
through September 30, 2022: Provided, That
none of the funds transferred pursuant to
this section shall be available for obligation
without written notification to and the prior
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress: Provided
further, That this section does not apply to
funds derived from the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for assistance to or
through the Agency for International Devel-
opment in connection with forest and range-
land research, technical information, and as-
sistance in foreign countries, and shall be
available to support forestry and related nat-
ural resource activities outside the United
States and its territories and possessions, in-
cluding technical assistance, education and
training, and cooperation with U.S., private,
and international organizations. The Forest
Service, acting for the International Pro-
gram, may sign direct funding agreements
with foreign governments and institutions as
well as other domestic agencies (including
the U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment, the Department of State, and the Mil-
lennium Challenge Corporation), U.S. pri-
vate sector firms, institutions and organiza-
tions to provide technical assistance and
training programs overseas on forestry and
rangeland management.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for expenditure or transfer
to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of
Land Management, for removal, preparation,
and adoption of excess wild horses and bur-
ros from National Forest System lands, and
for the performance of cadastral surveys to
designate the boundaries of such lands.
None of the funds made available to the
Forest Service in this Act or any other Act
with respect to any fiscal year shall be sub-
ject to transfer under the provisions of sec-
tion 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1083
January 23, 2019
of Public Law 106–224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or sec-
tion 10417(b) of Public Law 107–171 (7 U.S.C.
8316(b)).
None of the funds available to the Forest
Service may be reprogrammed without the
advance approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations in accordance
with the reprogramming procedures con-
tained in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act).
Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available
to the Forest Service shall be transferred to
the Working Capital Fund of the Department
of Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000
of funds available to the Forest Service shall
be transferred to the Department of Agri-
culture for Department Reimbursable Pro-
grams, commonly referred to as Greenbook
charges. Nothing in this paragraph shall pro-
hibit or limit the use of reimbursable agree-
ments requested by the Forest Service in
order to obtain services from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s National Information
Technology Center and the Department of
Agriculture’s International Technology
Service.
Of the funds available to the Forest Serv-
ice, up to $5,000,000 shall be available for pri-
ority projects within the scope of the ap-
proved budget, which shall be carried out by
the Youth Conservation Corps and shall be
carried out under the authority of the Public
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et
seq.).
Of the funds available to the Forest Serv-
ice, $4,000 is available to the Chief of the For-
est Service for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of
Public Law 101–593, of the funds available to
the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be
advanced in a lump sum to the National For-
est Foundation to aid conservation partner-
ship projects in support of the Forest Service
mission, without regard to when the Founda-
tion incurs expenses, for projects on or bene-
fitting National Forest System lands or re-
lated to Forest Service programs: Provided,
That of the Federal funds made available to
the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall
be available for administrative expenses:
Provided further, That the Foundation shall
obtain, by the end of the period of Federal fi-
nancial assistance, private contributions to
match funds made available by the Forest
Service on at least a one-for-one basis: Pro-
vided further, That the Foundation may
transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-
Federal recipient for a project at the same
rate that the recipient has obtained the non-
Federal matching funds.
Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law
98–244, up to $3,000,000 of the funds available
to the Forest Service may be advanced to
the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in
a lump sum to aid cost-share conservation
projects, without regard to when expenses
are incurred, on or benefitting National For-
est System lands or related to Forest Service
programs: Provided, That such funds shall be
matched on at least a one-for-one basis by
the Foundation or its sub-recipients: Pro-
vided further, That the Foundation may
transfer Federal funds to a Federal or non-
Federal recipient for a project at the same
rate that the recipient has obtained the non-
Federal matching funds.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for interactions with and
providing technical assistance to rural com-
munities and natural resource-based busi-
nesses for sustainable rural development
purposes.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for payments to counties
within the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and
(2), and section 16(a)(2) of Public Law 99–663.
Any funds appropriated to the Forest Serv-
ice may be used to meet the non-Federal
share requirement in section 502(c) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3056(c)(2)).
The Forest Service shall not assess funds
for the purpose of performing fire, adminis-
trative, and other facilities maintenance and
decommissioning.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, of any appropriations or funds available
to the Forest Service, not to exceed $500,000
may be used to reimburse the Office of the
General Counsel (OGC), Department of Agri-
culture, for travel and related expenses in-
curred as a result of OGC assistance or par-
ticipation requested by the Forest Service at
meetings, training sessions, management re-
views, land purchase negotiations and simi-
lar matters unrelated to civil litigation. Fu-
ture budget justifications for both the Forest
Service and the Department of Agriculture
should clearly display the sums previously
transferred and the sums requested for trans-
fer.
An eligible individual who is employed in
any project funded under title V of the Older
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.)
and administered by the Forest Service shall
be considered to be a Federal employee for
purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United
States Code.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, through the Office of Budget and
Program Analysis, the Forest Service shall
report no later than 30 business days fol-
lowing the close of each fiscal quarter all
current and prior year unobligated balances,
by fiscal year, budget line item and account,
to the House and Senate Committees on Ap-
propriations.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE
INDIAN HEALTH SERVICES
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assist-
ance Act, the Indian Health Care Improve-
ment Act, and titles II and III of the Public
Health Service Act with respect to the In-
dian Health Service, $4,103,190,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, except as
otherwise provided herein, together with
payments received during the fiscal year
pursuant to sections 231(b) and 233 of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 238(b),
238b), for services furnished by the Indian
Health Service: Provided, That funds made
available to tribes and tribal organizations
through contracts, grant agreements, or any
other agreements or compacts authorized by
the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450),
shall be deemed to be obligated at the time
of the grant or contract award and there-
after shall remain available to the tribe or
tribal organization without fiscal year limi-
tation: Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall
be available for grants or contracts with
public or private institutions to provide al-
cohol or drug treatment services to Indians,
including alcohol detoxification services:
Provided further, That $964,819,000 for Pur-
chased/Referred Care, including $53,000,000
for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emer-
gency Fund, shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That of the funds
provided, up to $44,000,000 shall remain avail-
able until expended for implementation of
the loan repayment program under section
108 of the Indian Health Care Improvement
Act: Provided further, That of the funds pro-
vided, $36,000,000 shall remain available until
expended to supplement funds available for
operational costs at tribal clinics operated
under an Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act compact or contract
where health care is delivered in space ac-
quired through a full service lease, which is
not eligible for maintenance and improve-
ment and equipment funds from the Indian
Health Service, and $58,000,000 shall be for
costs related to or resulting from accredita-
tion emergencies, of which up to $4,000,000
may be used to supplement amounts other-
wise available for Purchased/Referred Care:
Provided further, That the amounts collected
by the Federal Government as authorized by
sections 104 and 108 of the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a)
during the preceding fiscal year for breach of
contracts shall be deposited to the Fund au-
thorized by section 108A of that Act (25
U.S.C. 1616a–1) and shall remain available
until expended and, notwithstanding section
108A(c) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a–1(c)),
funds shall be available to make new awards
under the loan repayment and scholarship
programs under sections 104 and 108 of that
Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a): Provided fur-
ther, That the amounts made available with-
in this account for the Substance Abuse and
Suicide Prevention Program, for Opioid Pre-
vention, Treatment and Recovery Services,
for the Domestic Violence Prevention Pro-
gram, for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for the
housing subsidy authority for civilian em-
ployees, for aftercare pilot programs at
Youth Regional Treatment Centers, to im-
prove collections from public and private in-
surance at Indian Health Service and trib-
ally operated facilities, and for accreditation
emergencies shall be allocated at the discre-
tion of the Director of the Indian Health
Service and shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That funds provided
in this Act may be used for annual contracts
and grants for which the performance period
falls within 2 fiscal years, provided the total
obligation is recorded in the year the funds
are appropriated: Provided further, That the
amounts collected by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services under the au-
thority of title IV of the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act shall remain available
until expended for the purpose of achieving
compliance with the applicable conditions
and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of
the Social Security Act, except for those re-
lated to the planning, design, or construc-
tion of new facilities: Provided further, That
funding contained herein for scholarship pro-
grams under the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act shall remain available until
expended: Provided further, That amounts re-
ceived by tribes and tribal organizations
under title IV of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act shall be reported and ac-
counted for and available to the receiving
tribes and tribal organizations until ex-
pended: Provided further, That the Bureau of
Indian Affairs may collect from the Indian
Health Service, and from tribes and tribal
organizations operating health facilities pur-
suant to Public Law 93–638, such individually
identifiable health information relating to
disabled children as may be necessary for the
purpose of carrying out its functions under
the Individuals with Disabilities Education
Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.): Provided further,
That of the funds provided, $72,280,000 is for
the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund
and may be used, as needed, to carry out ac-
tivities typically funded under the Indian
Health Facilities account: Provided further,
That the accreditation emergency funds may
be used, as needed, to carry out activities
typically funded under the Indian Health Fa-
cilities account.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS
For payments to tribes and tribal organi-
zations for contract support costs associated
with Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act agreements with the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1084 January 23, 2019
Indian Health Service for fiscal year 2019,
such sums as may be necessary: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no amounts made available under this
heading shall be available for transfer to an-
other budget account.
INDIAN HEALTH FACILITIES
For construction, repair, maintenance, im-
provement, and equipment of health and re-
lated auxiliary facilities, including quarters
for personnel; preparation of plans, specifica-
tions, and drawings; acquisition of sites, pur-
chase and erection of modular buildings, and
purchases of trailers; and for provision of do-
mestic and community sanitation facilities
for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the In-
dian Self-Determination Act, and the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act, and for ex-
penses necessary to carry out such Acts and
titles II and III of the Public Health Service
Act with respect to environmental health
and facilities support activities of the Indian
Health Service, $878,806,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated for the planning, design, con-
struction, renovation or expansion of health
facilities for the benefit of an Indian tribe or
tribes may be used to purchase land on
which such facilities will be located: Provided
further, That not to exceed $500,000 may be
used by the Indian Health Service to pur-
chase TRANSAM equipment from the De-
partment of Defense for distribution to the
Indian Health Service and tribal facilities:
Provided further, That none of the funds ap-
propriated to the Indian Health Service may
be used for sanitation facilities construction
for new homes funded with grants by the
housing programs of the United States De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment: Provided further, That not to exceed
$2,700,000 from this account and the ‘‘Indian
Health Services’’ account may be used by the
Indian Health Service to obtain ambulances
for the Indian Health Service and tribal fa-
cilities in conjunction with an existing
interagency agreement between the Indian
Health Service and the General Services Ad-
ministration: Provided further, That not to
exceed $500,000 may be placed in a Demoli-
tion Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended, and be used by the Indian Health
Service for the demolition of Federal build-
ings.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—INDIAN HEALTH
SERVICE
Appropriations provided in this Act to the
Indian Health Service shall be available for
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 at
rates not to exceed the per diem rate equiva-
lent to the maximum rate payable for senior-
level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of
passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; pur-
chase of medical equipment; purchase of re-
prints; purchase, renovation and erection of
modular buildings and renovation of existing
facilities; payments for telephone service in
private residences in the field, when author-
ized under regulations approved by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services; uni-
forms or allowances therefor as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; and for expenses of at-
tendance at meetings that relate to the func-
tions or activities of the Indian Health Serv-
ice: Provided, That in accordance with the
provisions of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act, non-Indian patients may be
extended health care at all tribally adminis-
tered or Indian Health Service facilities, sub-
ject to charges, and the proceeds along with
funds recovered under the Federal Medical
Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651–2653) shall
be credited to the account of the facility pro-
viding the service and shall be available
without fiscal year limitation: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding any other law or
regulation, funds transferred from the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
to the Indian Health Service shall be admin-
istered under Public Law 86–121, the Indian
Sanitation Facilities Act and Public Law 93–
638: Provided further, That funds appropriated
to the Indian Health Service in this Act, ex-
cept those used for administrative and pro-
gram direction purposes, shall not be subject
to limitations directed at curtailing Federal
travel and transportation: Provided further,
That none of the funds made available to the
Indian Health Service in this Act shall be
used for any assessments or charges by the
Department of Health and Human Services
unless identified in the budget justification
and provided in this Act, or approved by the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions through the reprogramming process:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, funds previously or
herein made available to a tribe or tribal or-
ganization through a contract, grant, or
agreement authorized by title I or title V of
the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5321
et seq. (title I), 5381 et seq. (title V)), may be
deobligated and reobligated to a self-deter-
mination contract under title I, or a self-
governance agreement under title V of such
Act and thereafter shall remain available to
the tribe or tribal organization without fis-
cal year limitation: Provided further, That
none of the funds made available to the In-
dian Health Service in this Act shall be used
to implement the final rule published in the
Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, relating to the eligibility for the health
care services of the Indian Health Service
until the Indian Health Service has sub-
mitted a budget request reflecting the in-
creased costs associated with the proposed
final rule, and such request has been in-
cluded in an appropriations Act and enacted
into law: Provided further, That with respect
to functions transferred by the Indian Health
Service to tribes or tribal organizations, the
Indian Health Service is authorized to pro-
vide goods and services to those entities on
a reimbursable basis, including payments in
advance with subsequent adjustment, and
the reimbursements received therefrom,
along with the funds received from those en-
tities pursuant to the Indian Self-Determina-
tion Act, may be credited to the same or sub-
sequent appropriation account from which
the funds were originally derived, with such
amounts to remain available until expended:
Provided further, That reimbursements for
training, technical assistance, or services
provided by the Indian Health Service will
contain total costs, including direct, admin-
istrative, and overhead costs associated with
the provision of goods, services, or technical
assistance: Provided further, That the Indian
Health Service may provide to civilian med-
ical personnel serving in hospitals operated
by the Indian Health Service housing allow-
ances equivalent to those that would be pro-
vided to members of the Commissioned Corps
of the United States Public Health Service
serving in similar positions at such hos-
pitals: Provided further, That the appropria-
tion structure for the Indian Health Service
may not be altered without advance notifica-
tion to the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations.
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For necessary expenses for the National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences in
carrying out activities set forth in section
311(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of
the Superfund Amendments and Reauthor-
ization Act of 1986, $79,000,000.
AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE
REGISTRY
TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PUBLIC HEALTH
For necessary expenses for the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
(ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth
in sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA) and section 3019 of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, $74,691,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, in lieu of performing a health assess-
ment under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the
Administrator of ATSDR may conduct other
appropriate health studies, evaluations, or
activities, including, without limitation,
biomedical testing, clinical evaluations,
medical monitoring, and referral to accred-
ited healthcare providers: Provided further,
That in performing any such health assess-
ment or health study, evaluation, or activ-
ity, the Administrator of ATSDR shall not
be bound by the deadlines in section
104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA: Provided further,
That none of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be available for ATSDR to
issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles
pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during
fiscal year 2019, and existing profiles may be
updated as necessary.
OTHER RELATED AGENCIES
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY AND
OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
For necessary expenses to continue func-
tions assigned to the Council on Environ-
mental Quality and Office of Environmental
Quality pursuant to the National Environ-
mental Policy Act of 1969, the Environ-
mental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, and not to
exceed $750 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $2,994,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 202 of the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the
Council shall consist of one member, ap-
pointed by the President, by and with the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate, serving as
chairman and exercising all powers, func-
tions, and duties of the Council.
CHEMICAL SAFETY AND HAZARD INVESTIGATION
BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities pursuant to section 112(r)(6) of the
Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902, and for serv-
ices authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates
for individuals not to exceed the per diem
equivalent to the maximum rate payable for
senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376,
$12,000,000: Provided, That the Chemical Safe-
ty and Hazard Investigation Board (Board)
shall have not more than three career Senior
Executive Service positions: Provided further,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the individual appointed to the position
of Inspector General of the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of
such appointment, also hold the position of
Inspector General of the Board: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Inspector General of the
Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of
Inspector General of EPA in performing the
duties of the Inspector General of the Board,
and shall not appoint any individuals to po-
sitions within the Board.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1085
January 23, 2019
OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN
RELOCATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation as au-
thorized by Public Law 93–531, $8,750,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That funds provided in this or any other ap-
propriations Act are to be used to relocate
eligible individuals and groups including
evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned
lands residents, those in significantly sub-
standard housing, and all others certified as
eligible and not included in the preceding
categories: Provided further, That none of the
funds contained in this or any other Act may
be used by the Office of Navajo and Hopi In-
dian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or
Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985,
was physically domiciled on the lands parti-
tioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or re-
placement home is provided for such house-
hold: Provided further, That no relocatee will
be provided with more than one new or re-
placement home: Provided further, That the
Office shall relocate any certified eligible
relocatees who have selected and received an
approved homesite on the Navajo reservation
or selected a replacement residence off the
Navajo reservation or on the land acquired
pursuant to section 11 of Public Law 93–531
(88 Stat. 1716): Provided further, That
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the Office of
the Inspector General of the Department of
the Interior, to remain available until ex-
pended, for audits and investigations of the
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation,
consistent with the Inspector General Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
INSTITUTE OF AMERICAN INDIAN AND ALASKA
NATIVE CULTURE AND ARTS DEVELOPMENT
PAYMENT TO THE INSTITUTE
For payment to the Institute of American
Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts
Development, as authorized by part A of
title XV of Public Law 99–498 (20 U.S.C. 4411
et seq.), $9,960,000, which shall become avail-
able on July 1, 2019, and shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian
Institution, as authorized by law, including
research in the fields of art, science, and his-
tory; development, preservation, and docu-
mentation of the National Collections; pres-
entation of public exhibits and perform-
ances; collection, preparation, dissemina-
tion, and exchange of information and publi-
cations; conduct of education, training, and
museum assistance programs; maintenance,
alteration, operation, lease agreements of no
more than 30 years, and protection of build-
ings, facilities, and approaches; not to exceed
$100,000 for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and clean-
ing of uniforms for employees, $739,994,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020,
except as otherwise provided herein; of which
not to exceed $6,917,000 for the instrumenta-
tion program, collections acquisition, exhi-
bition reinstallation, and the repatriation of
skeletal remains program shall remain avail-
able until expended; and including such
funds as may be necessary to support Amer-
ican overseas research centers: Provided,
That funds appropriated herein are available
for advance payments to independent con-
tractors performing research services or par-
ticipating in official Smithsonian presen-
tations.
FACILITIES CAPITAL
For necessary expenses of repair, revital-
ization, and alteration of facilities owned or
occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by
contract or otherwise, as authorized by sec-
tion 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat.
623), and for construction, including nec-
essary personnel, $303,503,000, to remain
available until expended, of which not to ex-
ceed $10,000 shall be for services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the upkeep and operations of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the protection and
care of the works of art therein, and admin-
istrative expenses incident thereto, as au-
thorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat.
51), as amended by the public resolution of
April 13, 1939 (Public Resolution 9, Seventy-
sixth Congress), including services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance
when authorized by the treasurer of the Gal-
lery for membership in library, museum, and
art associations or societies whose publica-
tions or services are available to members
only, or to members at a price lower than to
the general public; purchase, repair, and
cleaning of uniforms for guards, and uni-
forms, or allowances therefor, for other em-
ployees as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–
5902); purchase or rental of devices and serv-
ices for protecting buildings and contents
thereof, and maintenance, alteration, im-
provement, and repair of buildings, ap-
proaches, and grounds; and purchase of serv-
ices for restoration and repair of works of
art for the National Gallery of Art by con-
tracts made, without advertising, with indi-
viduals, firms, or organizations at such rates
or prices and under such terms and condi-
tions as the Gallery may deem proper,
$144,202,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which not to exceed
$3,640,000 for the special exhibition program
shall remain available until expended.
REPAIR, RESTORATION AND RENOVATION OF
BUILDINGS
For necessary expenses of repair, restora-
tion and renovation of buildings, grounds
and facilities owned or occupied by the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, by contract or other-
wise, for operating lease agreements of no
more than 10 years, with no extensions or re-
newals beyond the 10 years, that address
space needs created by the ongoing renova-
tions in the Master Facilities Plan, as au-
thorized, $24,203,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That contracts
awarded for environmental systems, protec-
tion systems, and exterior repair or renova-
tion of buildings of the National Gallery of
Art may be negotiated with selected contrac-
tors and awarded on the basis of contractor
qualifications as well as price.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
For necessary expenses for the operation,
maintenance and security of the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
$24,490,000.
CAPITAL REPAIR AND RESTORATION
For necessary expenses for capital repair
and restoration of the existing features of
the building and site of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts, $16,800,000,
to remain available until expended.
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR
SCHOLARS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary in carrying out the
provisions of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial
Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of
passenger vehicles and services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $12,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS
GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
National Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 shall be
available to the National Endowment for the
Arts for the support of projects and produc-
tions in the arts, including arts education
and public outreach activities, through as-
sistance to organizations and individuals
pursuant to section 5 of the Act, for program
support, and for administering the functions
of the Act, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES
GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
National Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities Act of 1965, $155,000,000 to remain
available until expended, of which
$141,750,000 shall be available for support of
activities in the humanities, pursuant to sec-
tion 7(c) of the Act and for administering the
functions of the Act; and $13,250,000 shall be
available to carry out the matching grants
program pursuant to section 10(a)(2) of the
Act, including $11,250,000 for the purposes of
section 7(h): Provided, That appropriations
for carrying out section 10(a)(2) shall be
available for obligation only in such
amounts as may be equal to the total
amounts of gifts, bequests, devises of money,
and other property accepted by the chairman
or by grantees of the National Endowment
for the Humanities under the provisions of
sections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the
current and preceding fiscal years for which
equal amounts have not previously been ap-
propriated.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
None of the funds appropriated to the Na-
tional Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities may be used to process any grant
or contract documents which do not include
the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated to the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
may be used for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
funds from nonappropriated sources may be
used as necessary for official reception and
representation expenses: Provided further,
That the Chairperson of the National Endow-
ment for the Arts may approve grants of up
to $10,000, if in the aggregate the amount of
such grants does not exceed 5 percent of the
sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes
per year: Provided further, That such small
grant actions are taken pursuant to the
terms of an expressed and direct delegation
of authority from the National Council on
the Arts to the Chairperson.
COMMISSION OF FINE ARTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses of the Commission of Fine
Arts under chapter 91 of title 40, United
States Code, $2,771,000: Provided, That the
Commission is authorized to charge fees to
cover the full costs of its publications, and
such fees shall be credited to this account as
an offsetting collection, to remain available
until expended without further appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Commission
is authorized to accept gifts, including ob-
jects, papers, artwork, drawings and arti-
facts, that pertain to the history and design
of the Nation’s Capital or the history and ac-
tivities of the Commission of Fine Arts, for
the purpose of artistic display, study, or edu-
cation: Provided further, That one-tenth of
one percent of the funds provided under this
heading may be used for official reception
and representation expenses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1086 January 23, 2019
NATIONAL CAPITAL ARTS AND CULTURAL
AFFAIRS
For necessary expenses as authorized by
Public Law 99–190 (20 U.S.C. 956a), $2,750,000.
ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC
PRESERVATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Advisory
Council on Historic Preservation (Public
Law 89–665), $6,890,000.
NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National
Capital Planning Commission under chapter
87 of title 40, United States Code, including
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$8,099,000: Provided, That one-quarter of 1
percent of the funds provided under this
heading may be used for official reception
and representational expenses associated
with hosting international visitors engaged
in the planning and physical development of
world capitals.
UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL
MUSEUM
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM
For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial
Museum, as authorized by Public Law 106–292
(36 U.S.C. 2301–2310), $59,000,000, of which
$1,715,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for the Museum’s equipment
replacement program; and of which $4,000,000
for the Museum’s repair and rehabilitation
program and $1,264,000 for the Museum’s out-
reach initiatives program shall remain avail-
able until expended.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER MEMORIAL
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Dwight D.
Eisenhower Memorial Commission, $1,800,000,
to remain available until expended.
WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Women’s
Suffrage Centennial Commission, as author-
ized by the Women’s Suffrage Centennial
Commission Act (section 431(a)(3) of division
G of Public Law 115–31), $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
WORLD WAR I CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
Notwithstanding section 9 of the World
War I Centennial Commission Act, as au-
thorized by the World War I Centennial Com-
mission Act (Public Law 112–272) and the
Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’ McKeon
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2015 (Public Law 113–291), for nec-
essary expenses of the World War I Centen-
nial Commission, $7,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That in addi-
tion to the authority provided by section 6(g)
of such Act, the World War I Commission
may accept money, in-kind personnel serv-
ices, contractual support, or any appropriate
support from any executive branch agency
for activities of the Commission.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 401. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be available for any
activity or the publication or distribution of
literature that in any way tends to promote
public support or opposition to any legisla-
tive proposal on which Congressional action
is not complete other than to communicate
to Members of Congress as described in 18
U.S.C. 1913.
OBLIGATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 402. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
DISCLOSURE OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
SEC. 403. The amount and basis of esti-
mated overhead charges, deductions, re-
serves or holdbacks, including working cap-
ital fund and cost pool charges, from pro-
grams, projects, activities and subactivities
to support government-wide, departmental,
agency, or bureau administrative functions
or headquarters, regional, or central oper-
ations shall be presented in annual budget
justifications and subject to approval by the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate. Changes
to such estimates shall be presented to the
Committees on Appropriations for approval.
MINING APPLICATIONS
SEC. 404. (a) LIMITATION OF FUNDS.—None of
the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available pursuant to this Act shall be obli-
gated or expended to accept or process appli-
cations for a patent for any mining or mill
site claim located under the general mining
laws.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply if the Secretary of the Interior deter-
mines that, for the claim concerned (1) a pat-
ent application was filed with the Secretary
on or before September 30, 1994; and (2) all re-
quirements established under sections 2325
and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29
and 30) for vein or lode claims, sections 2329,
2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30
U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and
section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30
U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case
may be, were fully complied with by the ap-
plicant by that date.
(c) REPORT.—On September 30, 2020, the
Secretary of the Interior shall file with the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House and the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
a report on actions taken by the Department
under the plan submitted pursuant to sec-
tion 314(c) of the Department of the Interior
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
1997 (Public Law 104–208).
(d) MINERAL EXAMINATIONS.—In order to
process patent applications in a timely and
responsible manner, upon the request of a
patent applicant, the Secretary of the Inte-
rior shall allow the applicant to fund a quali-
fied third-party contractor to be selected by
the Director of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment to conduct a mineral examination of
the mining claims or mill sites contained in
a patent application as set forth in sub-
section (b). The Bureau of Land Management
shall have the sole responsibility to choose
and pay the third-party contractor in ac-
cordance with the standard procedures em-
ployed by the Bureau of Land Management
in the retention of third-party contractors.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS, PRIOR YEAR
LIMITATION
SEC. 405. Sections 405 and 406 of division F
of the Consolidated and Further Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113–235)
shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2019.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS, FISCAL YEAR 2019
LIMITATION
SEC. 406. Amounts provided by this Act for
fiscal year 2019 under the headings ‘‘Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, Indian
Health Service, Contract Support Costs’’ and
‘‘Department of the Interior, Bureau of In-
dian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education,
Contract Support Costs’’ are the only
amounts available for contract support costs
arising out of self-determination or self-gov-
ernance contracts, grants, compacts, or an-
nual funding agreements for fiscal year 2019
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the In-
dian Health Service: Provided, That such
amounts provided by this Act are not avail-
able for payment of claims for contract sup-
port costs for prior years, or for repayments
of payments for settlements or judgments
awarding contract support costs for prior
years.
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLANS
SEC. 407. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall not be considered to be in violation of
subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning
Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) solely be-
cause more than 15 years have passed with-
out revision of the plan for a unit of the Na-
tional Forest System. Nothing in this sec-
tion exempts the Secretary from any other
requirement of the Forest and Rangeland Re-
newable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C.
1600 et seq.) or any other law: Provided, That
if the Secretary is not acting expeditiously
and in good faith, within the funding avail-
able, to revise a plan for a unit of the Na-
tional Forest System, this section shall be
void with respect to such plan and a court of
proper jurisdiction may order completion of
the plan on an accelerated basis.
PROHIBITION WITHIN NATIONAL MONUMENTS
SEC. 408. No funds provided in this Act may
be expended to conduct preleasing, leasing
and related activities under either the Min-
eral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C.
1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a Na-
tional Monument established pursuant to
the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 et seq.)
as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001,
except where such activities are allowed
under the Presidential proclamation estab-
lishing such monument.
LIMITATION ON TAKINGS
SEC. 409. Unless otherwise provided herein,
no funds appropriated in this Act for the ac-
quisition of lands or interests in lands may
be expended for the filing of declarations of
taking or complaints in condemnation with-
out the approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That this provision shall not apply to funds
appropriated to implement the Everglades
National Park Protection and Expansion Act
of 1989, or to funds appropriated for Federal
assistance to the State of Florida to acquire
lands for Everglades restoration purposes.
TIMBER SALE REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 410. No timber sale in Alaska’s Region
10 shall be advertised if the indicated rate is
deficit (defined as the value of the timber is
not sufficient to cover all logging and stump-
age costs and provide a normal profit and
risk allowance under the Forest Service’s ap-
praisal process) when appraised using a re-
sidual value appraisal. The western red cedar
timber from those sales which is surplus to
the needs of the domestic processors in Alas-
ka, shall be made available to domestic proc-
essors in the contiguous 48 United States at
prevailing domestic prices. All additional
western red cedar volume not sold to Alaska
or contiguous 48 United States domestic
processors may be exported to foreign mar-
kets at the election of the timber sale hold-
er. All Alaska yellow cedar may be sold at
prevailing export prices at the election of
the timber sale holder.
PROHIBITION ON NO-BID CONTRACTS
SEC. 411. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act to ex-
ecutive branch agencies may be used to enter
into any Federal contract unless such con-
tract is entered into in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United
States Code, and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation, unless—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1087
January 23, 2019
(1) Federal law specifically authorizes a
contract to be entered into without regard
for these requirements, including formula
grants for States, or federally recognized In-
dian tribes;
(2) such contract is authorized by the In-
dian Self-Determination and Education As-
sistance Act (Public Law 93–638, 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that
specifically authorize a contract within an
Indian tribe as defined in section 4(e) of that
Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
(3) such contract was awarded prior to the
date of enactment of this Act.
POSTING OF REPORTS
SEC. 412. (a) Any agency receiving funds
made available in this Act, shall, subject to
subsections (b) and (c), post on the public
website of that agency any report required
to be submitted by the Congress in this or
any other Act, upon the determination by
the head of the agency that it shall serve the
national interest.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a re-
port if—
(1) the public posting of the report com-
promises national security; or
(2) the report contains proprietary infor-
mation.
(c) The head of the agency posting such re-
port shall do so only after such report has
been made available to the requesting Com-
mittee or Committees of Congress for no less
than 45 days.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS GRANT
GUIDELINES
SEC. 413. Of the funds provided to the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts—
(1) The Chairperson shall only award a
grant to an individual if such grant is award-
ed to such individual for a literature fellow-
ship, National Heritage Fellowship, or Amer-
ican Jazz Masters Fellowship.
(2) The Chairperson shall establish proce-
dures to ensure that no funding provided
through a grant, except a grant made to a
State or local arts agency, or regional group,
may be used to make a grant to any other
organization or individual to conduct activ-
ity independent of the direct grant recipient.
Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit
payments made in exchange for goods and
services.
(3) No grant shall be used for seasonal sup-
port to a group, unless the application is spe-
cific to the contents of the season, including
identified programs or projects.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS PROGRAM
PRIORITIES
SEC. 414. (a) In providing services or award-
ing financial assistance under the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under
this Act, the Chairperson of the National En-
dowment for the Arts shall ensure that pri-
ority is given to providing services or award-
ing financial assistance for projects, produc-
tions, workshops, or programs that serve un-
derserved populations.
(b) In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘underserved population’’
means a population of individuals, including
urban minorities, who have historically been
outside the purview of arts and humanities
programs due to factors such as a high inci-
dence of income below the poverty line or to
geographic isolation.
(2) The term ‘‘poverty line’’ means the pov-
erty line (as defined by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and revised annually in ac-
cordance with section 673(2) of the Commu-
nity Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C.
9902(2))) applicable to a family of the size in-
volved.
(c) In providing services and awarding fi-
nancial assistance under the National Foun-
dation on the Arts and Humanities Act of
1965 with funds appropriated by this Act, the
Chairperson of the National Endowment for
the Arts shall ensure that priority is given
to providing services or awarding financial
assistance for projects, productions, work-
shops, or programs that will encourage pub-
lic knowledge, education, understanding, and
appreciation of the arts.
(d) With funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out section 5 of the National Founda-
tion on the Arts and Humanities Act of
1965—
(1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant
category for projects, productions, work-
shops, or programs that are of national im-
pact or availability or are able to tour sev-
eral States;
(2) the Chairperson shall not make grants
exceeding 15 percent, in the aggregate, of
such funds to any single State, excluding
grants made under the authority of para-
graph (1);
(3) the Chairperson shall report to the Con-
gress annually and by State, on grants
awarded by the Chairperson in each grant
category under section 5 of such Act; and
(4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use
of grants to improve and support commu-
nity-based music performance and edu-
cation.
STATUS OF BALANCES OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 415. The Department of the Interior,
the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Forest Service, and the Indian Health Serv-
ice shall provide the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and Senate quarterly reports on the status of
balances of appropriations including all un-
committed, committed, and unobligated
funds in each program and activity.
PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 416. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this Act or any other Act may be used to
promulgate or implement any regulation re-
quiring the issuance of permits under title V
of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.)
for carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, water
vapor, or methane emissions resulting from
biological processes associated with live-
stock production.
GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING RESTRICTIONS
SEC. 417. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to im-
plement any provision in a rule, if that pro-
vision requires mandatory reporting of
greenhouse gas emissions from manure man-
agement systems.
FUNDING PROHIBITION
SEC. 418. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to reg-
ulate the lead content of ammunition, am-
munition components, or fishing tackle
under the Toxic Substances Control Act (15
U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or any other law.
CONTRACTING AUTHORITIES
SEC. 419. Section 412 of Division E of Public
Law 112–74 is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’.
EXTENSION OF GRAZING PERMITS
SEC. 420. The terms and conditions of sec-
tion 325 of Public Law 108–108 (117 Stat. 1307),
regarding grazing permits issued by the For-
est Service on any lands not subject to ad-
ministration under section 402 of the Federal
Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C.
1752), shall remain in effect for fiscal year
2019.
FUNDING PROHIBITION
SEC. 421. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network is designed to block access to por-
nography websites.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
FOREST SERVICE FACILITY REALIGNMENT AND
ENHANCEMENT ACT
SEC. 422. Section 503(f) of the Forest Serv-
ice Facility Realignment and Enhancement
Act of 2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public Law
109–54) is amended by striking ‘‘2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019’’.
USE OF AMERICAN IRON AND STEEL
SEC. 423. (a)(1) None of the funds made
available by a State water pollution control
revolving fund as authorized by section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
300j–12) shall be used for a project for the
construction, alteration, maintenance, or re-
pair of a public water system or treatment
works unless all of the iron and steel prod-
ucts used in the project are produced in the
United States.
(2) In this section, the term ‘‘iron and
steel’’ products means the following products
made primarily of iron or steel: lined or un-
lined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and
other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks,
flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves,
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete,
and construction materials.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any
case or category of cases in which the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Administrator’’) finds that—
(1) applying subsection (a) would be incon-
sistent with the public interest;
(2) iron and steel products are not produced
in the United States in sufficient and reason-
ably available quantities and of a satisfac-
tory quality; or
(3) inclusion of iron and steel products pro-
duced in the United States will increase the
cost of the overall project by more than 25
percent.
(c) If the Administrator receives a request
for a waiver under this section, the Adminis-
trator shall make available to the public on
an informal basis a copy of the request and
information available to the Administrator
concerning the request, and shall allow for
informal public input on the request for at
least 15 days prior to making a finding based
on the request. The Administrator shall
make the request and accompanying infor-
mation available by electronic means, in-
cluding on the official public Internet Web
site of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy.
(d) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under international agreements.
(e) The Administrator may retain up to
0.25 percent of the funds appropriated in this
Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provi-
sions described in subsection (a)(1) for man-
agement and oversight of the requirements
of this section.
MIDWAY ISLAND
SEC. 424. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to destroy any
buildings or structures on Midway Island
that have been recommended by the United
States Navy for inclusion in the National
Register of Historic Places (54 U.S.C. 302101).
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER REAUTHORIZATION
SEC. 425. Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy
Center Act (20 U.S.C. 76r) is amended by
striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND SECU-
RITY.—There is authorized to be appropriated
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1088 January 23, 2019
to the Board to carry out section 4(a)(1)(H),
$24,490,000 for fiscal year 2019.
‘‘(b) CAPITAL PROJECTS.—There is author-
ized to be appropriated to the Board to carry
out subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section
4(a)(1), $16,800,000 for fiscal year 2019.’’.
LOCAL COOPERATOR TRAINING AGREEMENTS AND
TRANSFERS OF EXCESS EQUIPMENT AND SUP-
PLIES FOR WILDFIRES
SEC. 426. The Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to enter into grants and coopera-
tive agreements with volunteer fire depart-
ments, rural fire departments, rangeland fire
protection associations, and similar organi-
zations to provide for wildland fire training
and equipment, including supplies and com-
munication devices. Notwithstanding 121(c)
of title 40, United States Code, or section 521
of title 40, United States Code, the Secretary
is further authorized to transfer title to ex-
cess Department of the Interior firefighting
equipment no longer needed to carry out the
functions of the Department’s wildland fire
management program to such organizations.
POLICIES RELATING TO BIOMASS ENERGY
SEC. 427. To support the key role that for-
ests in the United States can play in address-
ing the energy needs of the United States,
the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of
Agriculture, and the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency shall,
consistent with their missions, jointly—
(1) ensure that Federal policy relating to
forest bioenergy—
(A) is consistent across all Federal depart-
ments and agencies; and
(B) recognizes the full benefits of the use of
forest biomass for energy, conservation, and
responsible forest management; and
(2) establish clear and simple policies for
the use of forest biomass as an energy solu-
tion, including policies that—
(A) reflect the carbon-neutrality of forest
bioenergy and recognize biomass as a renew-
able energy source, provided the use of forest
biomass for energy production does not
cause conversion of forests to non-forest use;
(B) encourage private investment through-
out the forest biomass supply chain, includ-
ing in—
(i) working forests;
(ii) harvesting operations;
(iii) forest improvement operations;
(iv) forest bioenergy production;
(v) wood products manufacturing; or
(vi) paper manufacturing;
(C) encourage forest management to im-
prove forest health; and
(D) recognize State initiatives to produce
and use forest biomass.
INFRASTRUCTURE
SEC. 428. (a) For an additional amount for
‘‘Environmental Protection Agency—Haz-
ardous Substance Superfund’’, $68,000,000, of
which $60,000,000 shall be for the Superfund
Remedial program and $8,000,000 shall be for
the Superfund Emergency Response and Re-
moval program, to remain available until ex-
pended, consisting of such sums as are avail-
able in the Trust Fund on September 30, 2018,
as authorized by section 517(a) of the Super-
fund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
of 1986 (SARA) and up to $68,000,000 as a pay-
ment from general revenues to the Haz-
ardous Substance Superfund for purposes as
authorized by section 517(b) of SARA.
(b) For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Protection Agency—State and Tribal
Assistance Grants,’’ for environmental pro-
grams and infrastructure assistance, includ-
ing capitalization grants for State revolving
funds and performance partnership grants,
$665,000,000 to remain available until ex-
pended, of which—
(1) $300,000,000 shall be for making capital-
ization grants for the Clean Water State Re-
volving Funds under title VI of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act; and of which
$300,000,000 shall be for making capitalization
grants for the Drinking Water State Revolv-
ing Funds under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act;
(2) $25,000,000 shall be for grants for small
and disadvantaged communities authorized
in section 2104 of the Water Infrastructure
Improvements for the Nation Act (Public
Law 114–322);
(3) $25,000,000 shall be for grants for lead
testing in school and child care program
drinking water authorized in section 2107 of
the Water Infrastructure Improvements for
the Nation Act (Public Law 114–322);
(4) $15,000,000 shall be for grants for reduc-
ing lead in drinking water authorized in sec-
tion 2105 of the Water Infrastructure Im-
provements for the Nation Act (Public Law
114–322).
(c) For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Protection Agency—Water Infra-
structure Finance and Innovation Program
Account’’, $58,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for the cost of direct loans,
for the cost of guaranteed loans, and for ad-
ministrative expenses to carry out the direct
and guaranteed loan programs, of which
$3,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, may be used for such admin-
istrative expenses: Provided, That these addi-
tional funds are available to subsidize gross
obligations for the principal amount of di-
rect loans, including capitalized interest,
and total loan principal, including capital-
ized interest, any part of which is to be guar-
anteed, not to exceed $6,700,000,000.
SMALL REMOTE INCINERATORS
SEC. 429. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to implement or en-
force the regulation issued on March 21, 2011
at 40 CFR part 60 subparts CCCC and DDDD
with respect to units in the State of Alaska
that are defined as ‘‘small, remote inciner-
ator’’ units in those regulations and, until a
subsequent regulation is issued, the Admin-
istrator shall implement the law and regula-
tions in effect prior to such date.
CLARIFICATION OF EXEMPTIONS
SEC. 430. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to require a permit
for the discharge of dredged or fill material
under the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) for the activities
identified in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of
section 404(f)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C.
1344(f)(1)(A), (C)).
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Depart-
ment of the Interior, Environment, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION E—DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND RELATED
PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED
AGENCY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADMINISTRATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
DIPLOMATIC PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of the Department
of State and the Foreign Service not other-
wise provided for, $5,947,952,000, of which up
to $671,726,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020, and of which up to
$1,469,777,000 may remain available until ex-
pended for Worldwide Security Protection:
Provided, That funds made available under
this heading shall be allocated in accordance
with paragraphs (1) through (4) as follows:
(1) HUMAN RESOURCES.—For necessary ex-
penses for training, human resources man-
agement, and salaries, including employ-
ment without regard to civil service and
classification laws of persons on a temporary
basis (not to exceed $700,000), as authorized
by section 801 of the United States Informa-
tion and Educational Exchange Act of 1948,
$2,871,794,000, of which up to $528,000,000 is for
Worldwide Security Protection.
(2) OVERSEAS PROGRAMS.—For necessary
expenses for the regional bureaus of the De-
partment of State and overseas activities as
authorized by law, $1,338,227,000.
(3) DIPLOMATIC POLICY AND SUPPORT.—For
necessary expenses for the functional bu-
reaus of the Department of State, including
representation to certain international orga-
nizations in which the United States partici-
pates pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant
to the advice and consent of the Senate or
specific Acts of Congress, general adminis-
tration, and arms control, nonproliferation
and disarmament activities as authorized,
$773,847,000.
(4) SECURITY PROGRAMS.—For necessary ex-
penses for security activities, $964,084,000, of
which up to $941,777,000 is for Worldwide Se-
curity Protection.
(5) FEES AND PAYMENTS COLLECTED.—In ad-
dition to amounts otherwise made available
under this heading—
(A) as authorized by section 810 of the
United States Information and Educational
Exchange Act, not to exceed $5,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, may be cred-
ited to this appropriation from fees or other
payments received from English teaching, li-
brary, motion pictures, and publication pro-
grams and from fees from educational advis-
ing and counseling and exchange visitor pro-
grams; and
(B) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be de-
rived from reimbursements, surcharges, and
fees for use of Blair House facilities.
(6) TRANSFER OF FUNDS, REPROGRAMMING,
AND OTHER MATTERS.—
(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, funds may be reprogrammed within
and between paragraphs (1) through (4) under
this heading subject to section 7015 of this
Act.
(B) Of the amount made available under
this heading, not to exceed $10,000,000 may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Con-
sular Service’’, to be available only for emer-
gency evacuations and rewards, as author-
ized.
(C) Funds appropriated under this heading
are available for acquisition by exchange or
purchase of passenger motor vehicles as au-
thorized by law and, pursuant to section
1108(g) of title 31, United States Code, for the
field examination of programs and activities
in the United States funded from any ac-
count contained in this title.
(D) Funds appropriated under this heading
that are designated for Worldwide Security
Protection shall continue to be made avail-
able for support of security-related training
at sites in existence prior to the enactment
of this Act.
(7) CLARIFICATION.—References to the ‘‘Dip-
lomatic and Consular Programs’’ account in
any provision of law shall be construed to in-
clude the ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ account in
this Act and other Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of the Capital In-
vestment Fund, as authorized, $92,770,000, to
remain available until expended.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $90,829,000, notwithstanding
section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign Service Act
of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3929(a)(1)), as it relates to
post inspections: Provided, That of the funds
appropriated under this heading, $13,624,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1089
January 23, 2019
may remain available until September 30,
2020.
EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE
PROGRAMS
For expenses of educational and cultural
exchange programs, as authorized,
$700,946,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not less than $271,500,000
shall be for the Fulbright Program and not
less than $111,860,000 shall be for Citizen Ex-
change Program: Provided, That fees or other
payments received from, or in connection
with, English teaching, educational advising
and counseling programs, and exchange vis-
itor programs as authorized may be credited
to this account, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That a portion of
the Fulbright awards from the Eurasia and
Central Asia regions shall be designated as
Edmund S. Muskie Fellowships, following
consultation with the Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That any sub-
stantive modifications from the prior fiscal
year to programs funded by this Act under
this heading shall be subject to prior con-
sultation with, and the regular notification
procedures of, the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
REPRESENTATION EXPENSES
For representation expenses as authorized,
$8,030,000.
PROTECTION OF FOREIGN MISSIONS AND
OFFICIALS
For expenses, not otherwise provided, to
enable the Secretary of State to provide for
extraordinary protective services, as author-
ized, $30,890,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
EMBASSY SECURITY, CONSTRUCTION, AND
MAINTENANCE
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the Foreign Service Buildings Act of 1926 (22
U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, maintaining,
repairing, and planning for real property
that are owned or leased by the Department
of State, and renovating, in addition to funds
otherwise available, the Harry S Truman
Building, $777,200,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which not to ex-
ceed $25,000 may be used for overseas rep-
resentation expenses as authorized: Provided,
That none of the funds appropriated in this
paragraph shall be available for acquisition
of furniture, furnishings, or generators for
other departments and agencies of the
United States Government.
In addition, for the costs of worldwide se-
curity upgrades, acquisition, and construc-
tion as authorized, $1,198,249,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That not
later than 45 days after enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations the pro-
posed allocation of funds made available
under this heading and the actual and antici-
pated proceeds of sales or gifts for all
projects in fiscal year 2019.
EMERGENCIES IN THE DIPLOMATIC AND
CONSULAR SERVICE
For necessary expenses to enable the Sec-
retary of State to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies arising in the Diplomatic and Con-
sular Service, as authorized, $7,885,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which not
to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to,
and merged with, funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Repatriation Loans
Program Account’’: Provided, That $800,000 of
the funds appropriated under this heading
may not be obligated until the Secretary of
State testifies before the Committees on Ap-
propriations concerning the fiscal year 2020
budget request for the Department of State:
Provided further, That the limitation of the
previous proviso shall not apply if such funds
are necessary for emergency evacuations and
the payment of rewards for information re-
lated to international terrorism, narcotics
related activities, transnational organized
crime, and war crimes as authorized by sec-
tion 36 of the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708).
REPATRIATION LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, as
authorized: Provided, That such costs, includ-
ing the cost of modifying such loans, shall be
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That
such funds are available to subsidize gross
obligations for the principal amount of di-
rect loans not to exceed $5,686,032.
PAYMENT TO THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE IN
TAIWAN
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96–8),
$31,963,000.
INTERNATIONAL CENTER, WASHINGTON,
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Not to exceed $1,806,600 shall be derived
from fees collected from other executive
agencies for lease or use of facilities at the
International Center in accordance with sec-
tion 4 of the International Center Act (Pub-
lic Law 90–553), and, in addition, as author-
ized by section 5 of such Act, $743,000, to be
derived from the reserve authorized by such
section, to be used for the purposes set out in
that section.
PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN SERVICE
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND
For payment to the Foreign Service Re-
tirement and Disability Fund, as authorized,
$158,900,000.
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, to meet annual obligations of
membership in international multilateral or-
ganizations, pursuant to treaties ratified
pursuant to the advice and consent of the
Senate, conventions, or specific Acts of Con-
gress, $1,264,030,000: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of State shall, at the time of the sub-
mission of the President’s budget to Con-
gress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United
States Code, transmit to the Committees on
Appropriations the most recent biennial
budget prepared by the United Nations for
the operations of the United Nations: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of State
shall notify the Committees on Appropria-
tions at least 15 days in advance (or in an
emergency, as far in advance as is prac-
ticable) of any United Nations action to in-
crease funding for any United Nations pro-
gram without identifying an offsetting de-
crease elsewhere in the United Nations budg-
et: Provided further, That not later than May
1, 2019, and 30 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary of State shall report
to the Committees on Appropriations any
credits attributable to the United States, in-
cluding from the United Nations Tax Equali-
zation Fund, and provide updated fiscal year
2019 and fiscal year 2020 assessment costs in-
cluding offsets from available credits and up-
dated foreign currency exchange rates: Pro-
vided further, That any such credits shall
only be available for United States assessed
contributions to the United Nations regular
budget, and the Committees on Appropria-
tions shall be notified when such credits are
applied to any assessed contribution, includ-
ing any payment of arrearages: Provided fur-
ther, That any notification regarding funds
appropriated or otherwise made available
under this heading in this Act or prior Acts
making appropriations for the Department
of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams submitted pursuant to section 7015 of
this Act, section 34 of the State Department
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706),
or any operating plan submitted pursuant to
section 7070 of this Act, shall include an esti-
mate of all known credits currently attrib-
utable to the United States and provide up-
dated assessment costs including offsets
from available credits and updated foreign
currency exchange rates: Provided further,
That any payment of arrearages under this
heading shall be directed to activities that
are mutually agreed upon by the United
States and the respective international orga-
nization and shall be subject to the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations: Provided further, That
none of the funds appropriated under this
heading shall be available for a United
States contribution to an international orga-
nization for the United States share of inter-
est costs made known to the United States
Government by such organization for loans
incurred on or after October 1, 1984, through
external borrowings.
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES
For necessary expenses to pay assessed and
other expenses of international peacekeeping
activities directed to the maintenance or
restoration of international peace and secu-
rity, $562,344,000, of which 15 percent shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That none of the funds made available
by this Act shall be obligated or expended for
any new or expanded United Nations peace-
keeping mission unless, at least 15 days in
advance of voting for such mission in the
United Nations Security Council (or in an
emergency as far in advance as is prac-
ticable), the Committees on Appropriations
are notified of: (1) the estimated cost and du-
ration of the mission, the objectives of the
mission, the national interest that will be
served, and the exit strategy; and (2) the
sources of funds, including any
reprogrammings or transfers, that will be
used to pay the cost of the new or expanded
mission, and the estimated cost in future fis-
cal years: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated under this heading may
be made available for obligation unless the
Secretary of State certifies and reports to
the Committees on Appropriations on a
peacekeeping mission-by-mission basis that
the United Nations is implementing effective
policies and procedures to prevent United
Nations employees, contractor personnel,
and peacekeeping troops serving in such mis-
sion from trafficking in persons, exploiting
victims of trafficking, or committing acts of
sexual exploitation and abuse or other viola-
tions of human rights, and to hold account-
able individuals who engage in such acts
while participating in such mission, includ-
ing prosecution in their home countries and
making information about such prosecutions
publicly available on the website of the
United Nations: Provided further, That the
Secretary of State shall work with the
United Nations and foreign governments
contributing peacekeeping troops to imple-
ment effective vetting procedures to ensure
that such troops have not violated human
rights: Provided further, That funds shall be
available for peacekeeping expenses unless
the Secretary of State determines that
United States manufacturers and suppliers
are not being given opportunities to provide
equipment, services, and material for United
Nations peacekeeping activities equal to
those being given to foreign manufacturers
and suppliers: Provided further, That none of
the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available under this heading may be used for
any United Nations peacekeeping mission
that will involve United States Armed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1090 January 23, 2019
Forces under the command or operational
control of a foreign national, unless the
President’s military advisors have submitted
to the President a recommendation that
such involvement is in the national interest
of the United States and the President has
submitted to Congress such a recommenda-
tion: Provided further, That not later than
May 1, 2019, and 30 days after the end of fis-
cal year 2019, the Secretary of State shall re-
port to the Committees on Appropriations
any credits attributable to the United
States, including those resulting from
United Nations peacekeeping missions or the
United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and
provide updated fiscal year 2019 and fiscal
year 2020 assessment costs including offsets
from available credits: Provided further, That
any such credits shall only be available for
United States assessed contributions to
United Nations peacekeeping missions, and
the Committees on Appropriations shall be
notified when such credits are applied to any
assessed contribution, including any pay-
ment of arrearages: Provided further, That
any notification regarding funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available under
this heading in this Act or prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams submitted pursuant to section 7015 of
this Act, section 34 of the State Department
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706),
or any operating plan submitted pursuant to
section 7070 of this Act, shall include an esti-
mate of all known credits currently attrib-
utable to the United States and provide up-
dated assessment costs, including offsets
from available credits: Provided further, That
any payment of arrearages with funds appro-
priated by this Act shall be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided further,
That the Secretary of State shall work with
the United Nations and members of the
United Nations Security Council to evaluate
and prioritize peacekeeping missions, and to
consider a draw down when mission goals
have been substantially achieved.
INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, to meet obligations of the United
States arising under treaties, or specific
Acts of Congress, as follows:
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER
COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO
For necessary expenses for the United
States Section of the International Bound-
ary and Water Commission, United States
and Mexico, and to comply with laws appli-
cable to the United States Section, including
not to exceed $6,000 for representation ex-
penses; as follows:
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries and expenses, not otherwise
provided for, $48,134,000.
CONSTRUCTION
For detailed plan preparation and con-
struction of authorized projects, $29,400,000,
to remain available until expended, as au-
thorized.
AMERICAN SECTIONS, INTERNATIONAL
COMMISSIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided, for the International Joint Commis-
sion and the International Boundary Com-
mission, United States and Canada, as au-
thorized by treaties between the United
States and Canada or Great Britain, and the
Border Environment Cooperation Commis-
sion as authorized by the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(Public Law 103–182), $13,258,000: Provided,
That of the amount provided under this
heading for the International Joint Commis-
sion, up to $500,000 may remain available
until September 30, 2020, and $9,000 may be
made available for representation expenses:
Provided further, That of the amount pro-
vided under this heading for the Inter-
national Boundary Commission, $1,000 may
be made available for representation ex-
penses.
INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES COMMISSIONS
For necessary expenses for international
fisheries commissions, not otherwise pro-
vided for, as authorized by law, $50,651,000:
Provided, That the United States share of
such expenses may be advanced to the re-
spective commissions pursuant to section
3324 of title 31, United States Code.
RELATED AGENCY
BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS
INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to enable the
Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), as
authorized, to carry out international com-
munication activities, and to make and su-
pervise grants for radio, Internet, and tele-
vision broadcasting to the Middle East,
$798,196,000: Provided, That in addition to
amounts otherwise available for such pur-
poses, up to $34,508,000 of the amount appro-
priated under this heading may remain
available until expended for satellite trans-
missions and Internet freedom programs, of
which not less than $13,800,000 shall be for
Internet freedom programs: Provided further,
That of the total amount appropriated under
this heading, not to exceed $35,000 may be
used for representation expenses, of which
$10,000 may be used for such expenses within
the United States as authorized, and not to
exceed $30,000 may be used for representation
expenses of Radio Free Europe/Radio Lib-
erty: Provided further, That the BBG shall
notify the Committees on Appropriations
within 15 days of any determination by the
BBG that any of its broadcast entities, in-
cluding its grantee organizations, provides
an open platform for international terrorists
or those who support international ter-
rorism, or is in violation of the principles
and standards set forth in subsections (a)
and (b) of section 303 of the United States
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22
U.S.C. 6202) or the entity’s journalistic code
of ethics: Provided further, That significant
modifications to BBG broadcast hours pre-
viously justified to Congress, including
changes to transmission platforms (short-
wave, medium wave, satellite, Internet, and
television), for all BBG language services
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That in addition to
funds made available under this heading, and
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
up to $5,000,000 in receipts from advertising
and revenue from business ventures, up to
$500,000 in receipts from cooperating inter-
national organizations, and up to $1,000,000 in
receipts from privatization efforts of the
Voice of America and the International
Broadcasting Bureau, shall remain available
until expended for carrying out authorized
purposes.
BROADCASTING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
For the purchase, rent, construction, re-
pair, preservation, and improvement of fa-
cilities for radio, television, and digital
transmission and reception; the purchase,
rent, and installation of necessary equip-
ment for radio, television, and digital trans-
mission and reception, including to Cuba, as
authorized; and physical security worldwide,
in addition to amounts otherwise available
for such purposes, $9,700,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, as authorized.
RELATED PROGRAMS
THE ASIA FOUNDATION
For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as au-
thorized by The Asia Foundation Act (22
U.S.C. 4402), $17,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be appor-
tioned and obligated to the Foundation not
later than 60 days after enactment of this
Act.
UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE
For necessary expenses of the United
States Institute of Peace, as authorized by
the United States Institute of Peace Act (22
U.S.C. 4601 et seq.), $38,634,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, which
shall not be used for construction activities.
CENTER FOR MIDDLE EASTERN-WESTERN
DIALOGUE TRUST FUND
For necessary expenses of the Center for
Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust
Fund, as authorized by section 633 of the De-
partments of Commerce, Justice, and State,
the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appro-
priations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 2078), the total
amount of the interest and earnings accruing
to such Fund on or before September 30, 2019,
to remain available until expended.
EISENHOWER EXCHANGE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Ex-
change Fellowships, Incorporated, as author-
ized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C.
5204–5205), all interest and earnings accruing
to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Pro-
gram Trust Fund on or before September 30,
2019, to remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That none of the funds appropriated
herein shall be used to pay any salary or
other compensation, or to enter into any
contract providing for the payment thereof,
in excess of the rate authorized by section
5376 of title 5, United States Code; or for pur-
poses which are not in accordance with sec-
tion 200 of title 2 of the Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, including the restrictions on com-
pensation for personal services.
ISRAELI ARAB SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab
Scholarship Program, as authorized by sec-
tion 214 of the Foreign Relations Authoriza-
tion Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C.
2452 note), all interest and earnings accruing
to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or
before September 30, 2019, to remain avail-
able until expended.
EAST-WEST CENTER
To enable the Secretary of State to provide
for carrying out the provisions of the Center
for Cultural and Technical Interchange Be-
tween East and West Act of 1960, by grant to
the Center for Cultural and Technical Inter-
change Between East and West in the State
of Hawaii, $16,700,000: Provided, That funds
appropriated under this heading shall be ap-
portioned and obligated to the Center not
later than 60 days after enactment of this
Act.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
For grants made by the Department of
State to the National Endowment for De-
mocracy, as authorized by the National En-
dowment for Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412),
$180,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $117,500,000 shall be allo-
cated in the traditional and customary man-
ner, including for the core institutes, and
$62,500,000 shall be for democracy programs:
Provided, That the requirements of section
7070(a) of this Act shall not apply to funds
made available under this heading: Provided
further, That funds appropriated under this
heading shall be apportioned and obligated
to the Endowment not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1091
January 23, 2019
OTHER COMMISSIONS
COMMISSION FOR THE PRESERVATION OF
AMERICA’S HERITAGE ABROAD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Commission
for the Preservation of America’s Heritage
Abroad, $675,000, as authorized by chapter
3123 of title 54, United States Code: Provided,
That the Commission may procure tem-
porary, intermittent, and other services not-
withstanding paragraph (3) of section
312304(b) of such chapter: Provided further,
That such authority shall terminate on Oc-
tober 1, 2019: Provided further, That the Com-
mission shall notify the Committees on Ap-
propriations prior to exercising such author-
ity.
UNITED STATES COMMISSION ON
INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the United
States Commission on International Reli-
gious Freedom (USCIRF), as authorized by
title II of the International Religious Free-
dom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6431 et seq.),
$4,500,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, including not more than
$4,000 for representation expenses: Provided,
That prior to the obligation of $1,000,000 of
the funds appropriated under this heading,
the Commission shall consult with the ap-
propriate congressional committees on the
steps taken to implement the recommenda-
tions of the Independent Review of USCIRF
Mission Effectiveness that was conducted
pursuant to the United States Commission
on International Religious Freedom Reau-
thorization Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–71),
and such funds shall be subject to the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN
EUROPE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Commission
on Security and Cooperation in Europe, as
authorized by Public Law 94–304 (22 U.S.C.
3001 et seq.), $2,579,000, including not more
than $4,000 for representation expenses, to
remain available until September 30, 2020.
CONGRESSIONAL-EXECUTIVE COMMISSION ON
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Congres-
sional-Executive Commission on the People’s
Republic of China, as authorized by title III
of the U.S.-China Relations Act of 2000 (22
U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, including not
more than $3,000 for representation expenses,
to remain available until September 30, 2020.
UNITED STATES-CHINA ECONOMIC AND
SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States-China Economic and Security Review
Commission, as authorized by section 1238 of
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (22
U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not more
than $4,000 for representation expenses, to
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That the authorities, requirements,
limitations, and conditions contained in the
second through sixth provisos under this
heading in the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law
111–117) shall continue in effect during fiscal
year 2019 and shall apply to funds appro-
priated under this heading as if included in
this Act.
WESTERN HEMISPHERE DRUG POLICY
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Western
Hemisphere Drug Policy Commission, as au-
thorized by title VI of the Department of
State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Pub-
lic Law 114–323), $1,500,000 to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
TITLE II
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 667 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $1,214,808,000, of which
up to $182,221,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That none of
the funds appropriated under this heading
and under the heading ‘‘Capital Investment
Fund’’ in this title may be made available to
finance the construction (including architect
and engineering services), purchase, or long-
term lease of offices for use by the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, unless the USAID Administrator has
identified such proposed use of funds in a re-
port submitted to the Committees on Appro-
priations at least 15 days prior to the obliga-
tion of funds for such purposes: Provided fur-
ther, That contracts or agreements entered
into with funds appropriated under this
heading may entail commitments for the ex-
penditure of such funds through the fol-
lowing fiscal year: Provided further, That the
authority of sections 610 and 109 of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 may be exercised
by the Secretary of State to transfer funds
appropriated to carry out chapter 1 of part I
of such Act to ‘‘Operating Expenses’’ in ac-
cordance with the provisions of those sec-
tions: Provided further, That of the funds ap-
propriated or made available under this
heading, not to exceed $250,000 may be avail-
able for representation and entertainment
expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000 may
be available for entertainment expenses, and
not to exceed $100,500 shall be for official res-
idence expenses, for USAID during the cur-
rent fiscal year.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT FUND
For necessary expenses for overseas con-
struction and related costs, and for the pro-
curement and enhancement of information
technology and related capital investments,
pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, $225,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That this
amount is in addition to funds otherwise
available for such purposes: Provided further,
That funds appropriated under this heading
shall be available subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 667 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $76,600,000, of which up
to $11,490,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020, for the Office of Inspector
General of the United States Agency for
International Development.
TITLE III
BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
For necessary expenses to enable the Presi-
dent to carry out the provisions of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other
purposes, as follows:
GLOBAL HEALTH PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of chapters 1 and 10 of part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for global
health activities, in addition to funds other-
wise available for such purposes,
$3,117,450,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and which shall be appor-
tioned directly to the United States Agency
for International Development: Provided,
That this amount shall be made available for
training, equipment, and technical assist-
ance to build the capacity of public health
institutions and organizations in developing
countries, and for such activities as: (1) child
survival and maternal health programs; (2)
immunization and oral rehydration pro-
grams; (3) other health, nutrition, water and
sanitation programs which directly address
the needs of mothers and children, and re-
lated education programs; (4) assistance for
children displaced or orphaned by causes
other than AIDS; (5) programs for the pre-
vention, treatment, control of, and research
on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria,
and other infectious diseases including ne-
glected tropical diseases, and for assistance
to communities severely affected by HIV/
AIDS, including children infected or affected
by AIDS; (6) disaster preparedness training
for health crises; (7) programs to prevent,
prepare for, and respond to, unanticipated
and emerging global health threats; and (8)
family planning/reproductive health: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this paragraph may be made available for a
United States contribution to the GAVI Alli-
ance: Provided further, That none of the funds
made available in this Act nor any unobli-
gated balances from prior appropriations
Acts may be made available to any organiza-
tion or program which, as determined by the
President of the United States, supports or
participates in the management of a pro-
gram of coercive abortion or involuntary
sterilization: Provided further, That any de-
termination made under the previous proviso
must be made not later than 6 months after
the date of enactment of this Act, and must
be accompanied by the evidence and criteria
utilized to make the determination: Provided
further, That none of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used to pay for
the performance of abortion as a method of
family planning or to motivate or coerce any
person to practice abortions: Provided fur-
ther, That nothing in this paragraph shall be
construed to alter any existing statutory
prohibitions against abortion under section
104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds made
available under this Act may be used to
lobby for or against abortion: Provided fur-
ther, That in order to reduce reliance on
abortion in developing nations, funds shall
be available only to voluntary family plan-
ning projects which offer, either directly or
through referral to, or information about ac-
cess to, a broad range of family planning
methods and services, and that any such vol-
untary family planning project shall meet
the following requirements: (1) service pro-
viders or referral agents in the project shall
not implement or be subject to quotas, or
other numerical targets, of total number of
births, number of family planning acceptors,
or acceptors of a particular method of family
planning (this provision shall not be con-
strued to include the use of quantitative es-
timates or indicators for budgeting and plan-
ning purposes); (2) the project shall not in-
clude payment of incentives, bribes, gratu-
ities, or financial reward to: (A) an indi-
vidual in exchange for becoming a family
planning acceptor; or (B) program personnel
for achieving a numerical target or quota of
total number of births, number of family
planning acceptors, or acceptors of a par-
ticular method of family planning; (3) the
project shall not deny any right or benefit,
including the right of access to participate
in any program of general welfare or the
right of access to health care, as a con-
sequence of any individual’s decision not to
accept family planning services; (4) the
project shall provide family planning accep-
tors comprehensible information on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1092 January 23, 2019
health benefits and risks of the method cho-
sen, including those conditions that might
render the use of the method inadvisable and
those adverse side effects known to be con-
sequent to the use of the method; and (5) the
project shall ensure that experimental con-
traceptive drugs and devices and medical
procedures are provided only in the context
of a scientific study in which participants
are advised of potential risks and benefits;
and, not less than 60 days after the date on
which the USAID Administrator determines
that there has been a violation of the re-
quirements contained in paragraph (1), (2),
(3), or (5) of this proviso, or a pattern or
practice of violations of the requirements
contained in paragraph (4) of this proviso,
the Administrator shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations a report con-
taining a description of such violation and
the corrective action taken by the Agency:
Provided further, That in awarding grants for
natural family planning under section 104 of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no appli-
cant shall be discriminated against because
of such applicant’s religious or conscientious
commitment to offer only natural family
planning; and, additionally, all such appli-
cants shall comply with the requirements of
the previous proviso: Provided further, That
for purposes of this or any other Act author-
izing or appropriating funds for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, the term ‘‘motivate’’, as it
relates to family planning assistance, shall
not be construed to prohibit the provision,
consistent with local law, of information or
counseling about all pregnancy options: Pro-
vided further, That information provided
about the use of condoms as part of projects
or activities that are funded from amounts
appropriated by this Act shall be medically
accurate and shall include the public health
benefits and failure rates of such use.
In addition, for necessary expenses to
carry out the provisions of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 for the prevention, treat-
ment, and control of, and research on, HIV/
AIDS, $5,720,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, which shall be appor-
tioned directly to the Department of State:
Provided, That funds appropriated under this
paragraph may be made available, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, except
for the United States Leadership Against
HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of
2003 (Public Law 108–25), for a United States
contribution to the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global
Fund), and shall be expended at the min-
imum rate necessary to make timely pay-
ment for projects and activities: Provided
further, That the amount of such contribu-
tion should be $1,350,000,000: Provided further,
That clauses (i) and (vi) of section
202(d)(4)(A) of the United States Leadership
Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Ma-
laria Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7622) shall be ap-
plied with respect to such funds made avail-
able for fiscal years 2015 through 2019 by sub-
stituting ‘‘2004’’ for ‘‘2009’’: Provided further,
That up to 5 percent of the aggregate
amount of funds made available to the Glob-
al Fund in fiscal year 2019 may be made
available to USAID for technical assistance
related to the activities of the Global Fund,
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That of the funds appro-
priated under this paragraph, up to
$17,000,000 may be made available, in addi-
tion to amounts otherwise available for such
purposes, for administrative expenses of the
Office of the United States Global AIDS Co-
ordinator.
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of sections 103, 105, 106, 214, and
sections 251 through 255, and chapter 10 of
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
$3,000,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 491 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 for international disaster
relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction as-
sistance, $3,801,034,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such funds
shall be apportioned to the United States
Agency for International Development not
later than 60 days after enactment of this
Act.
TRANSITION INITIATIVES
For necessary expenses for international
disaster rehabilitation and reconstruction
assistance administered by the Office of
Transition Initiatives, United States Agency
for International Development, pursuant to
section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, $30,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to support transition to democracy
and long-term development of countries in
crisis: Provided, That such support may in-
clude assistance to develop, strengthen, or
preserve democratic institutions and proc-
esses, revitalize basic infrastructure, and fos-
ter the peaceful resolution of conflict: Pro-
vided further, That the USAID Administrator
shall submit a report to the Committees on
Appropriations at least 5 days prior to begin-
ning a new program of assistance: Provided
further, That if the Secretary of State deter-
mines that it is important to the national
interest of the United States to provide tran-
sition assistance in excess of the amount ap-
propriated under this heading, up to
$15,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this
Act to carry out the provisions of part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be
used for purposes of this heading and under
the authorities applicable to funds appro-
priated under this heading: Provided further,
That funds made available pursuant to the
previous proviso shall be made available sub-
ject to prior consultation with the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
COMPLEX CRISES FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 to support programs and activities ad-
ministered by the United States Agency for
International Development to prevent or re-
spond to emerging or unforeseen foreign
challenges and complex crises overseas,
$30,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That funds appropriated
under this heading may be made available on
such terms and conditions as are appropriate
and necessary for the purposes of preventing
or responding to such challenges and crises,
except that no funds shall be made available
for lethal assistance or to respond to natural
disasters: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated under this heading may be made
available notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, except sections 7007, 7008, and
7018 of this Act and section 620M of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further,
That funds appropriated under this heading
may be used for administrative expenses, in
addition to funds otherwise available for
such purposes, except that such expenses
may not exceed 5 percent of the funds appro-
priated under this heading: Provided further,
That funds appropriated under this heading
shall be apportioned to USAID not later than
60 days after enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That funds appropriated under this
heading shall be subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations, except that such notifica-
tions shall be transmitted at least 5 days
prior to the obligation of funds.
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AUTHORITY
For the cost of direct loans and loan guar-
antees provided by the United States Agency
for International Development, as authorized
by sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, up to $55,000,000 may be de-
rived by transfer from funds appropriated by
this Act to carry out part I of such Act and
under the heading ‘‘Assistance for Europe,
Eurasia and Central Asia’’: Provided, That
funds provided under this paragraph and
funds provided as a gift that are used for pur-
poses of this paragraph pursuant to section
635(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
shall be made available only for micro- and
small enterprise programs, urban programs,
and other programs which further the pur-
poses of part I of such Act: Provided further,
That funds provided as a gift that are used
for purposes of this paragraph shall be sub-
ject to prior consultation with, and the reg-
ular notification procedures of, the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided further,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such direct and guaranteed loans, shall
be as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available by
this paragraph may be used for the cost of
modifying any such guaranteed loans under
this Act or prior Acts making appropriations
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs, and funds used
for such cost, including if the cost results in
a negative subsidy, shall be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided further,
That the provisions of section 107A(d) (relat-
ing to general provisions applicable to the
Development Credit Authority) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in
section 306 of H.R. 1486 as reported by the
House Committee on International Relations
on May 9, 1997, shall be applicable to direct
loans and loan guarantees provided under
this heading, except that the principal
amount of loans made or guaranteed under
this heading with respect to any single coun-
try shall not exceed $300,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That these funds are available to sub-
sidize total loan principal, any portion of
which is to be guaranteed, of up to
$1,750,000,000.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out credit programs administered by
USAID, $10,000,000, which may be transferred
to, and merged with, funds made available
under the heading ‘‘Operating Expenses’’ in
title II of this Act: Provided, That funds
made available under this heading shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds appropriated
under this paragraph in this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs for administrative expenses
to carry out credit programs administered
by USAID, up to $1,000,000 may be made
available for limited transition costs associ-
ated with the implementation of section 1463
of the Better Utilization of Investments
Leading to Development (BUILD) Act of 2018
(division F of Public Law 115–254): Provided
further, That prior to the initial obligation of
funds made available for such transition
costs, the USAID Administrator shall submit
a spend plan to the Committees on Appro-
priations for the use of such funds: Provided
further, That funds made available for such
transition costs shall be subject to the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations, and may not be made
available until the reorganization plan re-
quired by section 1462(a) of the BUILD Act of
2018 is transmitted to Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1093
January 23, 2019
ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, $2,545,525,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020.
DEMOCRACY FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 for the promotion of democracy glob-
ally, including to carry out the purposes of
section 502(b)(3) and (5) of Public Law 98–164
(22 U.S.C. 4411), $157,700,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, which shall be
made available for the Human Rights and
Democracy Fund of the Bureau of Democ-
racy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department
of State: Provided, That funds appropriated
under this heading that are made available
to the National Endowment for Democracy
and its core institutes are in addition to
amounts otherwise available by this Act for
such purposes: Provided further, That the As-
sistant Secretary for Democracy, Human
Rights, and Labor, Department of State,
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations prior to the obligation of funds ap-
propriated under this paragraph.
For an additional amount for such pur-
poses, $69,500,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, which shall be made
available for the Bureau for Democracy,
Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance,
United States Agency for International De-
velopment.
ASSISTANCE FOR EUROPE, EURASIA AND
CENTRAL ASIA
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law
102–511), and the Support for Eastern Euro-
pean Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 (Public
Law 101–179), $760,334,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, which shall be
available, notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, except section 7047 of this Act,
for assistance and related programs for coun-
tries identified in section 3 of Public Law
102–511 (22 U.S.C. 5801) and section 3(c) of
Public Law 101–179 (22 U.S.C. 5402), in addi-
tion to funds otherwise available for such
purposes: Provided, That funds appropriated
by this Act under the headings ‘‘Global
Health Programs’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, and ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’ that are made avail-
able for assistance for such countries shall
be administered in accordance with the re-
sponsibilities of the coordinator designated
pursuant to section 102 of Public Law 102–511
and section 601 of Public Law 101–179: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading shall be considered to be eco-
nomic assistance under the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 for purposes of making
available the administrative authorities con-
tained in that Act for the use of economic
assistance: Provided further, That any notifi-
cation of funds made available under this
heading in this Act or prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations and related programs
shall include information (if known on the
date of transmittal of such notification) on
the use of notwithstanding authority: Pro-
vided further, That if subsequent to the noti-
fication of assistance it becomes necessary
to rely on notwithstanding authority, the
Committees on Appropriations should be in-
formed at the earliest opportunity and to the
extent practicable.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses not otherwise pro-
vided for, to enable the Secretary of State to
carry out the provisions of section 2(a) and
(b) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance
Act of 1962, and other activities to meet ref-
ugee and migration needs; salaries and ex-
penses of personnel and dependents as au-
thorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980;
allowances as authorized by sections 5921
through 5925 of title 5, United States Code;
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles; and services as authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code,
$2,027,876,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not less than $35,000,000
shall be made available to respond to small-
scale emergency humanitarian require-
ments, and $5,000,000 shall be made available
for refugees resettling in Israel.
UNITED STATES EMERGENCY REFUGEE AND
MIGRATION ASSISTANCE FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 2(c) of the Migration
and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)), $1,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That amounts in excess of the limitation
contained in paragraph (2) of such section
shall be transferred to, and merged with,
funds made available by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Migration and Refugee Assist-
ance’’.
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
PEACE CORPS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C.
2501 et seq.), including the purchase of not to
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for ad-
ministrative purposes for use outside of the
United States, $410,500,000, of which $6,000,000
is for the Office of Inspector General, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Director of the Peace Corps
may transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluc-
tuations Account, as authorized by section
16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2515), an
amount not to exceed $5,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That funds transferred pursuant to the
previous proviso may not be derived from
amounts made available for Peace Corps
overseas operations: Provided further, That of
the funds appropriated under this heading,
not to exceed $104,000 may be available for
representation expenses, of which not to ex-
ceed $4,000 may be made available for enter-
tainment expenses: Provided further, That
none of the funds appropriated under this
heading shall be used to pay for abortions:
Provided further, That notwithstanding the
previous proviso, section 614 of division E of
Public Law 113–76 shall apply to funds appro-
priated under this heading.
MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Millennium Challenge Act
of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) (MCA),
$905,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, up to $105,000,000
may be available for administrative expenses
of the Millennium Challenge Corporation:
Provided further, That section 605(e) of the
MCA shall apply to funds appropriated under
this heading: Provided further, That funds ap-
propriated under this heading may be made
available for a Millennium Challenge Com-
pact entered into pursuant to section 609 of
the MCA only if such Compact obligates, or
contains a commitment to obligate subject
to the availability of funds and the mutual
agreement of the parties to the Compact to
proceed, the entire amount of the United
States Government funding anticipated for
the duration of the Compact: Provided fur-
ther, That no country should be eligible for a
threshold program after such country has
completed a country compact: Provided fur-
ther, That any funds that are deobligated
from a Millennium Challenge Compact shall
be subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations
prior to re-obligation: Provided further, That
of the funds appropriated under this heading,
not to exceed $100,000 may be available for
representation and entertainment expenses,
of which not to exceed $5,000 may be avail-
able for entertainment expenses.
INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
functions of the Inter-American Foundation
in accordance with the provisions of section
401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969,
$22,500,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That of the funds
appropriated under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $2,000 may be available for representa-
tion expenses.
UNITED STATES AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
African Development Foundation Act (title
V of Public Law 96–533; 22 U.S.C. 290h et
seq.), $30,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, of which not to exceed
$2,000 may be available for representation ex-
penses: Provided, That funds made available
to grantees may be invested pending expend-
iture for project purposes when authorized
by the Board of Directors of the United
States African Development Foundation
(USADF): Provided further, That interest
earned shall be used only for the purposes for
which the grant was made: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the
African Development Foundation Act (22
U.S.C. 290h–3(a)(2)), in exceptional cir-
cumstances the Board of Directors of the
USADF may waive the $250,000 limitation
contained in that section with respect to a
project and a project may exceed the limita-
tion by up to 10 percent if the increase is due
solely to foreign currency fluctuation: Pro-
vided further, That the USADF shall submit
a report to the appropriate congressional
committees after each time such waiver au-
thority is exercised: Provided further, That
the USADF may make rent or lease pay-
ments in advance from appropriations avail-
able for such purpose for offices, buildings,
grounds, and quarters in Africa as may be
necessary to carry out its functions: Provided
further, That the USADF may maintain bank
accounts outside the United States Treasury
and retain any interest earned on such ac-
counts, in furtherance of the purposes of the
African Development Foundation Act: Pro-
vided further, That the USADF may not with-
draw any appropriation from the Treasury
prior to the need of spending such funds for
program purposes.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 129 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $30,000,000, to remain
available until expended, of which not more
than $6,000,000 may be used for administra-
tive expenses: Provided, That amounts made
available under this heading may be made
available to contract for services as de-
scribed in section 129(d)(3)(A) of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, without regard to the
location in which such services are per-
formed.
TITLE IV
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses to carry out sec-
tion 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, $1,497,469,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That the De-
partment of State may use the authority of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1094 January 23, 2019
section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, without regard to its restrictions, to re-
ceive excess property from an agency of the
United States Government for the purpose of
providing such property to a foreign country
or international organization under chapter
8 of part I of such Act, subject to the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations: Provided further, That
section 482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961 shall not apply to funds appropriated
under this heading, except that any funds
made available notwithstanding such section
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be made
available to support training and technical
assistance for foreign law enforcement, cor-
rections, judges, and other judicial authori-
ties, utilizing regional partners: Provided fur-
ther, That funds made available under this
heading that are transferred to another de-
partment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government pursuant to sec-
tion 632(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 valued in excess of $5,000,000, and any
agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of
such Act, shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
NONPROLIFERATION, ANTI-TERRORISM,
DEMINING AND RELATED PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses for nonprolifera-
tion, anti-terrorism, demining and related
programs and activities, $864,550,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, to
carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of part
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for
anti-terrorism assistance, chapter 9 of part
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, sec-
tion 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, sec-
tion 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, or
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for
demining activities, the clearance of
unexploded ordnance, the destruction of
small arms, and related activities, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, includ-
ing activities implemented through non-
governmental and international organiza-
tions, and section 301 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 for a United States contribu-
tion to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban
Treaty Preparatory Commission, and for a
voluntary contribution to the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA): Provided,
That funds made available under this head-
ing for the Nonproliferation and Disar-
mament Fund shall be made available, not-
withstanding any other provision of law and
subject to prior consultation with, and the
regular notification procedures of, the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, to promote bilat-
eral and multilateral activities relating to
nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons
destruction, and shall remain available until
expended: Provided further, That such funds
may also be used for such countries other
than the Independent States of the former
Soviet Union and international organiza-
tions when it is in the national security in-
terest of the United States to do so: Provided
further, That funds appropriated under this
heading may be made available for the IAEA
unless the Secretary of State determines
that Israel is being denied its right to par-
ticipate in the activities of that Agency: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
conventional weapons destruction programs,
including demining and related activities, in
addition to funds otherwise available for
such purposes, may be used for administra-
tive expenses related to the operation and
management of such programs and activi-
ties, subject to the regular notification pro-
cedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 551 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $163,457,000: Provided,
That funds appropriated under this heading
may be used, notwithstanding section 660 of
such Act, to provide assistance to enhance
the capacity of foreign civilian security
forces, including gendarmes, to participate
in peacekeeping operations: Provided further,
That of the funds appropriated under this
heading, not less than $31,000,000 shall be
made available for a United States contribu-
tion to the Multinational Force and Observ-
ers mission in the Sinai and not less than
$71,000,000 shall be made available for the
Global Peace Operations Initiative: Provided
further, That none of the funds appropriated
under this heading shall be obligated except
as provided through the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND
TRAINING
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 541 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $110,778,000, of which up
to $11,000,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That the civil-
ian personnel for whom military education
and training may be provided under this
heading may include civilians who are not
members of a government whose participa-
tion would contribute to improved civil-mili-
tary relations, civilian control of the mili-
tary, or respect for human rights: Provided
further, That of the funds appropriated under
this heading, not to exceed $50,000 may be
available for entertainment expenses.
FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM
For necessary expenses for grants to en-
able the President to carry out the provi-
sions of section 23 of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, $5,962,241,000: Provided, That to ex-
pedite the provision of assistance to foreign
countries and international organizations,
the Secretary of State, following consulta-
tion with the Committees on Appropriations
and subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of such Committees, may use the funds
appropriated under this heading to procure
defense articles and services to enhance the
capacity of foreign security forces: Provided
further, That of the funds appropriated under
this heading, not less than $3,300,000,000 shall
be available for grants only for Israel which
shall be disbursed within 30 days of enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That to
the extent that the Government of Israel re-
quests that funds be used for such purposes,
grants made available for Israel under this
heading shall, as agreed by the United States
and Israel, be available for advanced weap-
ons systems, of which not less than
$815,300,000 shall be available for the procure-
ment in Israel of defense articles and defense
services, including research and develop-
ment: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available under
this heading shall be nonrepayable notwith-
standing any requirement in section 23 of the
Arms Export Control Act: Provided further,
That funds made available under this head-
ing shall be obligated upon apportionment in
accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of section
1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
None of the funds made available under
this heading shall be available to finance the
procurement of defense articles, defense
services, or design and construction services
that are not sold by the United States Gov-
ernment under the Arms Export Control Act
unless the foreign country proposing to
make such procurement has first signed an
agreement with the United States Govern-
ment specifying the conditions under which
such procurement may be financed with such
funds: Provided, That all country and funding
level increases in allocations shall be sub-
mitted through the regular notification pro-
cedures of section 7015 of this Act: Provided
further, That funds made available under this
heading may be used, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, for demining, the
clearance of unexploded ordnance, and re-
lated activities, and may include activities
implemented through nongovernmental and
international organizations: Provided further,
That only those countries for which assist-
ance was justified for the ‘‘Foreign Military
Sales Financing Program’’ in the fiscal year
1989 congressional presentation for security
assistance programs may utilize funds made
available under this heading for procurement
of defense articles, defense services, or de-
sign and construction services that are not
sold by the United States Government under
the Arms Export Control Act: Provided fur-
ther, That funds appropriated under this
heading shall be expended at the minimum
rate necessary to make timely payment for
defense articles and services: Provided fur-
ther, That not more than $75,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading may
be obligated for necessary expenses, includ-
ing the purchase of passenger motor vehicles
for replacement only for use outside of the
United States, for the general costs of ad-
ministering military assistance and sales,
except that this limitation may be exceeded
only through the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That of the funds made
available under this heading for general
costs of administering military assistance
and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be avail-
able for entertainment expenses and not to
exceed $130,000 may be available for represen-
tation expenses: Provided further, That not
more than $1,009,700,000 of funds realized pur-
suant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Ex-
port Control Act may be obligated for ex-
penses incurred by the Department of De-
fense during fiscal year 2019 pursuant to sec-
tion 43(b) of the Arms Export Control Act,
except that this limitation may be exceeded
only through the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
TITLE V
MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 301 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $339,000,000: Provided,
That section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 shall not apply to contributions
to the United Nations Democracy Fund.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
For payment to the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development as trustee
for the Global Environment Facility by the
Secretary of the Treasury, $139,575,000, to re-
main available until, and to be fully dis-
bursed no later than, September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That of such amount, $136,563,000,
which shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, is only available for the first
installment of the seventh replenishment of
the Global Environment Facility, and shall
be obligated and disbursed not later than 90
days after enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall report to
the Committees on Appropriations on the
status of funds provided under this heading
not less than quarterly until fully disbursed:
Provided further, That in such report the Sec-
retary shall provide a timeline for the obli-
gation and disbursement of any funds that
have not yet been obligated or disbursed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1095
January 23, 2019
CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
For payment to the International Develop-
ment Association by the Secretary of the
Treasury, $1,097,010,000, to remain available
until expended.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT
FUND
For payment to the Asian Development
Bank’s Asian Development Fund by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, $47,395,000, to remain
available until expended.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK
For payment to the African Development
Bank by the Secretary of the Treasury for
the United States share of the paid-in por-
tion of the increase in capital stock,
$32,417,159, to remain available until ex-
pended.
LIMITATION ON CALLABLE CAPITAL
SUBSCRIPTIONS
The United States Governor of the African
Development Bank may subscribe without
fiscal year limitation to the callable capital
portion of the United States share of such
capital stock in an amount not to exceed
$507,860,806.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
FUND
For payment to the African Development
Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury,
$171,300,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL FUND
FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
For payment to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development by the Secretary
of the Treasury, $30,000,000, to remain avail-
able until, and to be fully disbursed no later
than, September 30, 2020, for the first install-
ment of the eleventh replenishment of the
International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment: Provided, That the Secretary of the
Treasury shall report to the Committees on
Appropriations on the status of such pay-
ment not less than quarterly until fully dis-
bursed: Provided further, That in such report
the Secretary shall provide a timeline for
the obligation and disbursement of any funds
that have not yet been obligated or dis-
bursed.
TITLE VI
EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as
amended, $5,700,000, of which up to $855,000
may remain available until September 30,
2020.
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
The Export-Import Bank of the United
States is authorized to make such expendi-
tures within the limits of funds and bor-
rowing authority available to such corpora-
tion, and in accordance with law, and to
make such contracts and commitments with-
out regard to fiscal year limitations, as pro-
vided by section 9104 of title 31, United
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying
out the program for the current fiscal year
for such corporation: Provided, That none of
the funds available during the current fiscal
year may be used to make expenditures, con-
tracts, or commitments for the export of nu-
clear equipment, fuel, or technology to any
country, other than a nuclear-weapon state
as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligi-
ble to receive economic or military assist-
ance under this Act, that has detonated a nu-
clear explosive after the date of enactment
of this Act.
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
For administrative expenses to carry out
the direct and guaranteed loan and insurance
programs, including hire of passenger motor
vehicles and services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and
not to exceed $30,000 for official reception
and representation expenses for members of
the Board of Directors, not to exceed
$110,000,000, of which up to $16,500,000 may re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Export-Import Bank (the
Bank) may accept, and use, payment or serv-
ices provided by transaction participants for
legal, financial, or technical services in con-
nection with any transaction for which an
application for a loan, guarantee or insur-
ance commitment has been made: Provided
further, That the Bank shall charge fees for
necessary expenses (including special serv-
ices performed on a contract or fee basis, but
not including other personal services) in con-
nection with the collection of moneys owed
the Bank, repossession or sale of pledged col-
lateral or other assets acquired by the Bank
in satisfaction of moneys owed the Bank, or
the investigation or appraisal of any prop-
erty, or the evaluation of the legal, finan-
cial, or technical aspects of any transaction
for which an application for a loan, guar-
antee or insurance commitment has been
made, or systems infrastructure directly
supporting transactions: Provided further,
That in addition to other funds appropriated
for administrative expenses, such fees shall
be credited to this account for such purposes,
to remain available until expended.
RECEIPTS COLLECTED
Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-
Import Bank Act of 1945 (Public Law 79–173)
and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, in
an amount not to exceed the amount appro-
priated herein, shall be credited as offsetting
collections to this account: Provided, That
the sums herein appropriated from the Gen-
eral Fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-
dollar basis by such offsetting collections so
as to result in a final fiscal year appropria-
tion from the General Fund estimated at $0.
OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
NONCREDIT ACCOUNT
The Overseas Private Investment Corpora-
tion is authorized to make, without regard
to fiscal year limitations, as provided by sec-
tion 9104 of title 31, United States Code, such
expenditures and commitments within the
limits of funds available to it and in accord-
ance with law as may be necessary: Provided,
That the amount available for administra-
tive expenses to carry out the credit and in-
surance programs (including an amount for
official reception and representation ex-
penses which shall not exceed $35,000) shall
not exceed $79,200,000: Provided further, That
project-specific transaction costs, including
direct and indirect costs incurred in claims
settlements, and other direct costs associ-
ated with services provided to specific inves-
tors or potential investors pursuant to sec-
tion 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, shall not be considered administrative
expenses for the purposes of this heading:
Provided further, That of the funds appro-
priated under this heading in this Act and
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs, up to $5,000,000 may be
made available for limited transition costs
associated with the implementation of sec-
tion 1463 of the Better Utilization of Invest-
ments Leading to Development (BUILD) Act
of 2018 (division F of Public Law 115–254):
Provided further, That prior to the initial ob-
ligation of funds made available for such
transition costs, the President of the Over-
seas Private Investment Corporation shall
submit a spend plan to the Committees on
Appropriations for the use of such funds: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
such transition costs shall be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, and may not be
made available until the reorganization plan
required by section 1462(a) of the BUILD Act
of 2018 is transmitted to Congress.
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans
as authorized by section 234 of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, $20,000,000, to be de-
rived by transfer from the Overseas Private
Investment Corporation Noncredit Account,
to remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That such costs, including the cost
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget
Act of 1974: Provided further, That funds so
obligated in fiscal year 2019 remain available
for disbursement through 2027; funds obli-
gated in fiscal year 2020 remain available for
disbursement through 2028; and funds obli-
gated in fiscal year 2021 remain available for
disbursement through 2029: Provided further,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Overseas Private Investment Cor-
poration is authorized to undertake any pro-
gram authorized by title IV of chapter 2 of
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
in Iraq: Provided further, That funds made
available pursuant to the authority of the
previous proviso shall be subject to the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
In addition, such sums as may be necessary
for administrative expenses to carry out the
credit program may be derived from amounts
available for administrative expenses to
carry out the credit and insurance programs
in the Overseas Private Investment Corpora-
tion Noncredit Account and merged with
said account.
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 661 of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, $79,500,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
no more than $19,000,000 may be used for ad-
ministrative expenses: Provided, That of the
funds appropriated under this heading, not
more than $5,000 may be available for rep-
resentation and entertainment expenses.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ALLOWANCES AND DIFFERENTIALS
SEC. 7001. Funds appropriated under title I
of this Act shall be available, except as oth-
erwise provided, for allowances and differen-
tials as authorized by subchapter 59 of title
5, United States Code; for services as author-
ized by section 3109 of such title and for hire
of passenger transportation pursuant to sec-
tion 1343(b) of title 31, United States Code.
UNOBLIGATED BALANCES REPORT
SEC. 7002. Any department or agency of the
United States Government to which funds
are appropriated or otherwise made available
by this Act shall provide to the Committees
on Appropriations a quarterly accounting of
cumulative unobligated balances and obli-
gated, but unexpended, balances by program,
project, and activity, and Treasury Account
Fund Symbol of all funds received by such
department or agency in fiscal year 2019 or
any previous fiscal year, disaggregated by
fiscal year: Provided, That the report re-
quired by this section shall be submitted not
later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal
quarter and should specify by account the
amount of funds obligated pursuant to bilat-
eral agreements which have not been further
sub-obligated.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1096 January 23, 2019
CONSULTING SERVICES
SEC. 7003. The expenditure of any appro-
priation under title I of this Act for any con-
sulting service through procurement con-
tract, pursuant to section 3109 of title 5,
United States Code, shall be limited to those
contracts where such expenditures are a
matter of public record and available for
public inspection, except where otherwise
provided under existing law, or under exist-
ing Executive order issued pursuant to exist-
ing law.
DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES
SEC. 7004. (a) CAPITAL SECURITY COST SHAR-
ING INFORMATION.—The Secretary of State
shall promptly inform the Committees on
Appropriations of each instance in which a
Federal department or agency is delinquent
in providing the full amount of funding re-
quired by section 604(e) of the Secure Em-
bassy Construction and Counterterrorism
Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note).
(b) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding para-
graph (2) of section 604(e) of the Secure Em-
bassy Construction and Counterterrorism
Act of 1999 (title VI of division A of H.R. 3427,
as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(7) of
Public Law 106–113 and contained in appendix
G of that Act), as amended by section 111 of
the Department of State Authorities Act,
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–323), a
project to construct a facility of the United
States may include office space or other ac-
commodations for members of the United
States Marine Corps.
(c) NEW DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES.—For the
purposes of calculating the fiscal year 2019
costs of providing new United States diplo-
matic facilities in accordance with section
604(e) of the Secure Embassy Construction
and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C.
4865 note), the Secretary of State, in con-
sultation with the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, shall determine
the annual program level and agency shares
in a manner that is proportional to the con-
tribution of the Department of State for this
purpose.
(d) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds appropriated by this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, which may be made avail-
able for the acquisition of property or award
of construction contracts for overseas United
States diplomatic facilities during fiscal
year 2019, shall be subject to prior consulta-
tion with, and the regular notification proce-
dures of, the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided, That notifications pursuant to this
subsection shall include the information
enumerated under the heading ‘‘Embassy Se-
curity, Construction, and Maintenance’’ in
House Report 115–829.
(e) INTERIM AND TEMPORARY FACILITIES
ABROAD.—
(1) SECURITY VULNERABILITIES.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Embassy Security, Construction, and Main-
tenance’’ may be made available, following
consultation with the appropriate congres-
sional committees, to address security
vulnerabilities at interim and temporary
United States diplomatic facilities abroad,
including physical security upgrades and
local guard staffing, except that the amount
of funds made available for such purposes
from this Act and prior Acts making appro-
priations for the Department of State, for-
eign operations, and related programs shall
be a minimum of $25,000,000.
(2) CONSULTATION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the opening, closure,
or any significant modification to an interim
or temporary United States diplomatic facil-
ity shall be subject to prior consultation
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees and the regular notification procedures
of the Committees on Appropriations, except
that such consultation and notification may
be waived if there is a security risk to per-
sonnel.
(f) TRANSFER OF FUNDS AUTHORITY.—Funds
appropriated under the headings ‘‘Diplo-
matic Programs’’, including for Worldwide
Security Protection, ‘‘Emergencies in the
Diplomatic and Consular Service’’, and ‘‘Em-
bassy Security, Construction, and Mainte-
nance’’ in this Act may be transferred to,
and merged with, funds appropriated under
such headings if the Secretary of State de-
termines and reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that to do so is necessary to
implement the recommendations of the
Benghazi Accountability Review Board, for
emergency evacuations, or to prevent or re-
spond to security situations and require-
ments, following consultation with, and sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures
of, such Committees: Provided, That such
transfer authority is in addition to any
transfer authority otherwise available in
this Act and under any other provision of
law.
(g) SOFT TARGETS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Embassy Secu-
rity, Construction, and Maintenance’’ may
be made available for security upgrades to
soft targets, including schools, recreational
facilities, and residences used by United
States diplomatic personnel and their de-
pendents, except that the amount made
available for such purposes shall be a min-
imum of $10,000,000.
(h) REPORT.—Within 45 days of enactment
of this Act and every 3 months thereafter
until the completion of each project, the
Secretary of State shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations a report on the
Erbil Consulate, Beirut Embassy, Jakarta
Embassy, Mexico City Embassy, and New
Delhi Embassy, as described under this sec-
tion in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act).
(i) SECURE RESUPPLY AND MAINTENANCE.—
The Secretary of State may not grant final
approval for the construction of a new facil-
ity or substantial construction to improve or
expand an existing facility in the United
States by or for the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China until the Secretary
certifies and reports to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that an agreement
has been concluded between the Govern-
ments of the United States and the People’s
Republic of China that permits secure resup-
ply, maintenance, and new construction of
United States Government facilities in the
People’s Republic of China.
PERSONNEL ACTIONS
SEC. 7005. Any costs incurred by a depart-
ment or agency funded under title I of this
Act resulting from personnel actions taken
in response to funding reductions included in
this Act shall be absorbed within the total
budgetary resources available under title I
to such department or agency: Provided,
That the authority to transfer funds between
appropriations accounts as may be necessary
to carry out this section is provided in addi-
tion to authorities included elsewhere in this
Act: Provided further, That use of funds to
carry out this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of
this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE MANAGEMENT
SEC. 7006. (a) FINANCIAL SYSTEMS IMPROVE-
MENT.—Funds appropriated by this Act for
the operations of the Department of State
under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’
and ‘‘Capital Investment Fund’’ shall be
made available to implement the rec-
ommendations contained in the Foreign As-
sistance Data Review Findings Report
(FADR) and the Office of Inspector General
(OIG) report entitled ‘‘Department Financial
Systems Are Insufficient to Track and Re-
port on Foreign Assistance Funds’’: Provided,
That not later than 45 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Appropriations an
update to the plan required under section
7006 of the Department of State, Foreign Op-
erations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115–
31) for implementing the FADR and OIG rec-
ommendations: Provided further, That such
funds may not be obligated for enhance-
ments to, or expansions of, the Budget Sys-
tem Modernization Financial System, Cen-
tral Resource Management System, Joint Fi-
nancial Management System, or Foreign As-
sistance Coordination and Tracking System
until such updated plan is submitted to the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That such funds may not be obligated
for new, or expansion of existing, ad hoc
electronic systems to track commitments,
obligations, or expenditures of funds unless
the Secretary of State, following consulta-
tion with the Chief Information Officer of
the Department of State, has reviewed and
certified that such new system or expansion
is consistent with the FADR and OIG rec-
ommendations.
(b) WORKING CAPITAL FUND.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act or otherwise made avail-
able to the Department of State for pay-
ments to the Working Capital Fund may
only be used for the service centers included
in the Congressional Budget Justification,
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs, Fiscal Year 2019: Pro-
vided, That the amounts for such service cen-
ters shall be the amounts included in such
budget justification, except as provided in
section 7015(b) of this Act: Provided further,
That Federal agency components shall be
charged only for their direct usage of each
Working Capital Fund service: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to increasing the percentage
charged to Department of State bureaus and
offices for procurement-related activities,
the Secretary of State shall include the pro-
posed increase in the Department of State
budget justification or, at least 60 days prior
to the increase, provide the Committees on
Appropriations a justification for such in-
crease, including a detailed assessment of
the cost and benefit of the services provided
by the procurement fee: Provided further,
That Federal agency components may only
pay for Working Capital Fund services that
are consistent with the purpose and authori-
ties of such components: Provided further,
That the Working Capital Fund shall be paid
in advance or reimbursed at rates which will
return the full cost of each service.
(c) CERTIFICATION.—
(1) Not later than 45 days after the initial
obligation of funds appropriated under titles
III and IV of this Act that are made avail-
able to a Department of State bureau or of-
fice with responsibility for the management
and oversight of such funds, the Secretary of
State shall certify and report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, on an individual
bureau or office basis, that such bureau or
office is in compliance with Department and
Federal financial and grants management
policies, procedures, and regulations, as ap-
plicable.
(2) When making a certification required
by paragraph (1), the Secretary of State shall
consider the capacity of a bureau or office
to—
(A) account for the obligated funds at the
country and program level, as appropriate;
(B) identify risks and develop mitigation
and monitoring plans;
(C) establish performance measures and in-
dicators;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1097
January 23, 2019
(D) review activities and performance; and
(E) assess final results and reconcile fi-
nances.
(3) If the Secretary of State is unable to
make a certification required by paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit a plan and
timeline detailing the steps to be taken to
bring such bureau or office into compliance.
(4) The report accompanying a certifi-
cation required by paragraph (1) shall in-
clude the requirements contained under this
section in House Report 115–829.
PROHIBITION AGAINST DIRECT FUNDING FOR
CERTAIN COUNTRIES
SEC. 7007. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available pursuant to ti-
tles III through VI of this Act shall be obli-
gated or expended to finance directly any as-
sistance or reparations for the governments
of Cuba, North Korea, Iran, or Syria: Pro-
vided, That for purposes of this section, the
prohibition on obligations or expenditures
shall include direct loans, credits, insurance,
and guarantees of the Export-Import Bank
or its agents.
COUPS D’ÉTAT
SEC. 7008. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available pursuant to ti-
tles III through VI of this Act shall be obli-
gated or expended to finance directly any as-
sistance to the government of any country
whose duly elected head of government is de-
posed by military coup d’état or decree or,
after the date of enactment of this Act, a
coup d’état or decree in which the military
plays a decisive role: Provided, That assist-
ance may be resumed to such government if
the Secretary of State certifies and reports
to the appropriate congressional committees
that subsequent to the termination of assist-
ance a democratically elected government
has taken office: Provided further, That the
provisions of this section shall not apply to
assistance to promote democratic elections
or public participation in democratic proc-
esses: Provided further, That funds made
available pursuant to the previous provisos
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
TRANSFER OF FUNDS AUTHORITY
SEC. 7009. (a) DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND
BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS.—
(1) DEPARTMENT OF STATE.—Not to exceed 5
percent of any appropriation made available
for the current fiscal year for the Depart-
ment of State under title I of this Act may
be transferred between, and merged with,
such appropriations, but no such appropria-
tion, except as otherwise specifically pro-
vided, shall be increased by more than 10 per-
cent by any such transfers, and no such
transfer may be made to increase the appro-
priation under the heading ‘‘Representation
Expenses’’.
(2) BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS.—
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation
made available for the current fiscal year for
the Broadcasting Board of Governors under
title I of this Act may be transferred be-
tween, and merged with, such appropria-
tions, but no such appropriation, except as
otherwise specifically provided, shall be in-
creased by more than 10 percent by any such
transfers.
(3) TREATMENT AS REPROGRAMMING.—Any
transfer pursuant to this subsection shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
section 7015 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
(b) TITLE VI AGENCIES.—Not to exceed 5
percent of any appropriation, other than for
administrative expenses made available for
fiscal year 2019, for programs under title VI
of this Act may be transferred between such
appropriations for use for any of the pur-
poses, programs, and activities for which the
funds in such receiving account may be used,
but no such appropriation, except as other-
wise specifically provided, shall be increased
by more than 25 percent by any such trans-
fer: Provided, That the exercise of such au-
thority shall be subject to the regular notifi-
cation procedures of the Committees on Ap-
propriations.
(c) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS OF FUNDS BE-
TWEEN AGENCIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—None of the funds made
available under titles II through V of this
Act may be transferred to any department,
agency, or instrumentality of the United
States Government, except pursuant to a
transfer made by, or transfer authority pro-
vided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
(2) ALLOCATION AND TRANSFERS.—Notwith-
standing paragraph (1), in addition to trans-
fers made by, or authorized elsewhere in,
this Act, funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the purposes of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 may be allocated or trans-
ferred to agencies of the United States Gov-
ernment pursuant to the provisions of sec-
tions 109, 610, and 632 of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961.
(3) NOTIFICATION.—Any agreement entered
into by the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development or the Department of
State with any department, agency, or in-
strumentality of the United States Govern-
ment pursuant to section 632(b) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess
of $1,000,000 and any agreement made pursu-
ant to section 632(a) of such Act, with funds
appropriated by this Act or prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams under the headings ‘‘Global Health
Programs’’, ‘‘Development Assistance’’,
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’ shall
be subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations:
Provided, That the requirement in the pre-
vious sentence shall not apply to agreements
entered into between USAID and the Depart-
ment of State.
(d) TRANSFER OF FUNDS BETWEEN AC-
COUNTS.—None of the funds made available
under titles II through V of this Act may be
obligated under an appropriations account to
which such funds were not appropriated, ex-
cept for transfers specifically provided for in
this Act, unless the President, not less than
5 days prior to the exercise of any authority
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 to transfer funds, consults with and pro-
vides a written policy justification to the
Committees on Appropriations.
(e) AUDIT OF INTER-AGENCY TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS.—Any agreement for the transfer or
allocation of funds appropriated by this Act
or prior Acts making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations and
related programs, entered into between the
Department of State or USAID and another
agency of the United States Government
under the authority of section 632(a) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or any com-
parable provision of law, shall expressly pro-
vide that the Inspector General (IG) for the
agency receiving the transfer or allocation
of such funds, or other entity with audit re-
sponsibility if the receiving agency does not
have an IG, shall perform periodic program
and financial audits of the use of such funds
and report to the Department of State or
USAID, as appropriate, upon completion of
such audits: Provided, That such audits shall
be transmitted to the Committees on Appro-
priations by the Department of State or
USAID, as appropriate: Provided further,
That funds transferred under such authority
may be made available for the cost of such
audits.
(f) REPORT.—Not later than October 31,
2019, the Secretary of State and the USAID
Administrator shall each submit a report to
the Committees on Appropriations detailing
all transfers to another agency of the United
States Government made pursuant to sec-
tions 632(a) and 632(b) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 with funds provided in the
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs Appropriations Act,
2018 (division K of Public Law 115–141): Pro-
vided, That such reports shall include a list
of each transfer made pursuant to such sec-
tions with the respective funding level, ap-
propriation account, and the receiving agen-
cy.
PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN OPERATIONAL
EXPENSES
SEC. 7010. (a) FIRST-CLASS TRAVEL.—None
of the funds made available by this Act may
be used for first-class travel by employees of
United States Government departments and
agencies funded by this Act in contravention
of section 301–10.122 through 301–10.124 of
title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b) COMPUTER NETWORKS.—None of the
funds made available by this Act for the op-
erating expenses of any United States Gov-
ernment department or agency may be used
to establish or maintain a computer network
for use by such department or agency unless
such network has filters designed to block
access to sexually explicit websites: Pro-
vided, That nothing in this subsection shall
limit the use of funds necessary for any Fed-
eral, State, tribal, or local law enforcement
agency, or any other entity carrying out the
following activities: criminal investigations,
prosecutions, and adjudications; administra-
tive discipline; and the monitoring of such
websites undertaken as part of official busi-
ness.
(c) PROHIBITION ON PROMOTION OF TO-
BACCO.—None of the funds made available by
this Act should be available to promote the
sale or export of tobacco or tobacco prod-
ucts, or to seek the reduction or removal by
any foreign country of restrictions on the
marketing of tobacco or tobacco products,
except for restrictions which are not applied
equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of
the same type.
AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS
SEC. 7011. No part of any appropriation
contained in this Act shall remain available
for obligation after the expiration of the cur-
rent fiscal year unless expressly so provided
by this Act: Provided, That funds appro-
priated for the purposes of chapters 1 and 8
of part I, section 661, chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and
9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control
Act, and funds provided under the headings
‘‘Development Credit Authority’’ and ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’ shall remain available for an addi-
tional 4 years from the date on which the
availability of such funds would otherwise
have expired, if such funds are initially obli-
gated before the expiration of their respec-
tive periods of availability contained in this
Act: Provided further, That the availability of
funds pursuant to the previous proviso shall
not be applicable to such funds until the Sec-
retary of State submits the reports required
under section 7011 of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of
Public Law 115–31) and the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2018 (division K of
Public Law 115–141): Provided further, That
notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act, any funds made available for the pur-
poses of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1098 January 23, 2019
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
which are allocated or obligated for cash dis-
bursements in order to address balance of
payments or economic policy reform objec-
tives, shall remain available for an addi-
tional 4 years from the date on which the
availability of such funds would otherwise
have expired, if such funds are initially allo-
cated or obligated before the expiration of
their respective periods of availability con-
tained in this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary of State shall provide a report to
the Committees on Appropriations not later
than October 31, 2019, detailing by account
and source year, the use of this authority
during the previous fiscal year.
LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES IN
DEFAULT
SEC. 7012. No part of any appropriation pro-
vided under titles III through VI in this Act
shall be used to furnish assistance to the
government of any country which is in de-
fault during a period in excess of 1 calendar
year in payment to the United States of
principal or interest on any loan made to the
government of such country by the United
States pursuant to a program for which
funds are appropriated under this Act unless
the President determines, following con-
sultation with the Committees on Appropria-
tions, that assistance for such country is in
the national interest of the United States.
PROHIBITION ON TAXATION OF UNITED STATES
ASSISTANCE
SEC. 7013. (a) PROHIBITION ON TAXATION.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act may be made
available to provide assistance for a foreign
country under a new bilateral agreement
governing the terms and conditions under
which such assistance is to be provided un-
less such agreement includes a provision
stating that assistance provided by the
United States shall be exempt from taxation,
or reimbursed, by the foreign government,
and the Secretary of State and the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development shall expeditiously
seek to negotiate amendments to existing bi-
lateral agreements, as necessary, to conform
with this requirement.
(b) NOTIFICATION AND REIMBURSEMENT OF
FOREIGN TAXES.—An amount equivalent to
200 percent of the total taxes assessed during
fiscal year 2019 on funds appropriated by this
Act and prior Acts making appropriations
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs by a foreign
government or entity against United States
assistance programs, either directly or
through grantees, contractors, and sub-
contractors, shall be withheld from obliga-
tion from funds appropriated for assistance
for fiscal year 2020 and for prior fiscal years
and allocated for the central government of
such country or for the West Bank and Gaza
program, as applicable, if, not later than
September 30, 2020, such taxes have not been
reimbursed: Provided, That the Secretary of
State shall report to the Committees on Ap-
propriations by such date on the foreign gov-
ernments and entities that have not reim-
bursed such taxes, including any amount of
funds withheld pursuant to this subsection.
(c) DE MINIMIS EXCEPTION.—Foreign taxes
of a de minimis nature shall not be subject
to the provisions of subsection (b).
(d) REPROGRAMMING OF FUNDS.—Funds
withheld from obligation for each foreign
government or entity pursuant to subsection
(b) shall be reprogrammed for assistance for
countries which do not assess taxes on
United States assistance or which have an
effective arrangement that is providing sub-
stantial reimbursement of such taxes, and
that can reasonably accommodate such as-
sistance in a programmatically responsible
manner.
(e) DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The provisions of this sec-
tion shall not apply to any foreign govern-
ment or entity that assesses such taxes if the
Secretary of State reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that—
(A) such foreign government or entity has
an effective arrangement that is providing
substantial reimbursement of such taxes; or
(B) the foreign policy interests of the
United States outweigh the purpose of this
section to ensure that United States assist-
ance is not subject to taxation.
(2) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary of State
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations at least 15 days prior to exercising
the authority of this subsection with regard
to any foreign government or entity.
(f) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary of
State shall issue and update rules, regula-
tions, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to
implement the prohibition against the tax-
ation of assistance contained in this section.
(g) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) BILATERAL AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘bi-
lateral agreement’’ refers to a framework bi-
lateral agreement between the Government
of the United States and the government of
the country receiving assistance that de-
scribes the privileges and immunities appli-
cable to United States foreign assistance for
such country generally, or an individual
agreement between the Government of the
United States and such government that de-
scribes, among other things, the treatment
for tax purposes that will be accorded the
United States assistance provided under that
agreement.
(2) TAXES AND TAXATION.—The term ‘‘taxes
and taxation’’ shall include value added
taxes and customs duties but shall not in-
clude individual income taxes assessed to
local staff.
(h) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the heads of
other relevant agencies of the United States
Government, shall submit a report to the
Committees on Appropriations on the re-
quirements contained under this section in
House Report 115–829.
RESERVATIONS OF FUNDS
SEC. 7014. (a) REPROGRAMMING.—Funds ap-
propriated under titles III through VI of this
Act which are specifically designated may be
reprogrammed for other programs within the
same account notwithstanding the designa-
tion if compliance with the designation is
made impossible by operation of any provi-
sion of this or any other Act: Provided, That
any such reprogramming shall be subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That assistance that is reprogrammed
pursuant to this subsection shall be made
available under the same terms and condi-
tions as originally provided.
(b) EXTENSION OF AVAILABILITY.—In addi-
tion to the authority contained in subsection
(a), the original period of availability of
funds appropriated by this Act and adminis-
tered by the Department of State or the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment that are specifically designated
for particular programs or activities by this
or any other Act may be extended for an ad-
ditional fiscal year if the Secretary of State
or the USAID Administrator, as appropriate,
determines and reports promptly to the
Committees on Appropriations that the ter-
mination of assistance to a country or a sig-
nificant change in circumstances makes it
unlikely that such designated funds can be
obligated during the original period of avail-
ability: Provided, That such designated funds
that continue to be available for an addi-
tional fiscal year shall be obligated only for
the purpose of such designation.
(c) OTHER ACTS.—Ceilings and specifically
designated funding levels contained in this
Act shall not be applicable to funds or au-
thorities appropriated or otherwise made
available by any subsequent Act unless such
Act specifically so directs: Provided, That
specifically designated funding levels or min-
imum funding requirements contained in
any other Act shall not be applicable to
funds appropriated by this Act.
NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 7015. (a) NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES IN
PROGRAMS, PROJECTS, AND ACTIVITIES.—None
of the funds made available in titles I and II
of this Act or prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs to the de-
partments and agencies funded by this Act
that remain available for obligation in fiscal
year 2019, or provided from any accounts in
the Treasury of the United States derived by
the collection of fees or of currency reflows
or other offsetting collections, or made
available by transfer, to the departments
and agencies funded by this Act, shall be
available for obligation to—
(1) create new programs;
(2) suspend or eliminate a program,
project, or activity;
(3) close, suspend, open, or reopen a mis-
sion or post;
(4) create, close, reorganize, downsize, or
rename bureaus, centers, or offices; or
(5) contract out or privatize any functions
or activities presently performed by Federal
employees;
unless previously justified to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations or such Committees
are notified 15 days in advance of such obli-
gation.
(b) NOTIFICATION OF REPROGRAMMING OF
FUNDS.—None of the funds provided under ti-
tles I and II of this Act or prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs, to
the departments and agencies funded under
titles I and II of this Act that remain avail-
able for obligation in fiscal year 2019, or pro-
vided from any accounts in the Treasury of
the United States derived by the collection
of fees available to the department and agen-
cy funded under title I of this Act, shall be
available for obligation or expenditure for
activities, programs, or projects through a
reprogramming of funds in excess of
$1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less,
that—
(1) augments or changes existing programs,
projects, or activities;
(2) relocates an existing office or employ-
ees;
(3) reduces by 10 percent funding for any
existing program, project, or activity, or
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as ap-
proved by Congress; or
(4) results from any general savings, in-
cluding savings from a reduction in per-
sonnel, which would result in a change in ex-
isting programs, activities, or projects as ap-
proved by Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations are
notified 15 days in advance of such re-
programming of funds.
(c) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—None of
the funds made available by this Act under
the headings ‘‘Global Health Programs’’,
‘‘Development Assistance’’, ‘‘International
Organizations and Programs’’, ‘‘Trade and
Development Agency’’, ‘‘International Nar-
cotics Control and Law Enforcement’’, ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’,
‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’, ‘‘Peacekeeping Operations’’, ‘‘Non-
proliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and
Related Programs’’, ‘‘Millennium Challenge
Corporation’’, ‘‘Foreign Military Financing
Program’’, ‘‘International Military Edu-
cation and Training’’, and ‘‘Peace Corps’’,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1099
January 23, 2019
shall be available for obligation for activi-
ties, programs, projects, type of materiel as-
sistance, countries, or other operations not
justified or in excess of the amount justified
to the Committees on Appropriations for ob-
ligation under any of these specific headings
unless the Committees on Appropriations are
notified 15 days in advance of such obliga-
tion: Provided, That the President shall not
enter into any commitment of funds appro-
priated for the purposes of section 23 of the
Arms Export Control Act for the provision of
major defense equipment, other than conven-
tional ammunition, or other major defense
items defined to be aircraft, ships, missiles,
or combat vehicles, not previously justified
to Congress or 20 percent in excess of the
quantities justified to Congress unless the
Committees on Appropriations are notified
15 days in advance of such commitment: Pro-
vided further, That requirements of this sub-
section or any similar provision of this or
any other Act shall not apply to any re-
programming for an activity, program, or
project for which funds are appropriated
under titles III through VI of this Act of less
than 10 percent of the amount previously
justified to Congress for obligation for such
activity, program, or project for the current
fiscal year: Provided further, That any notifi-
cation submitted pursuant to subsection (f)
of this section shall include information (if
known on the date of transmittal of such no-
tification) on the use of notwithstanding au-
thority: Provided further, That if subsequent
to the notification of assistance it becomes
necessary to rely on notwithstanding au-
thority, the Committees on Appropriations
should be informed at the earliest oppor-
tunity and to the extent practicable.
(d) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS
AND FUNDING NOTIFICATIONS.—
(1) PROGRAMS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act or prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
may be made available to support or con-
tinue any program initially funded under
any authority of title 10, United States Code,
or any Act making or authorizing appropria-
tions for the Department of Defense, unless
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense and in accordance
with the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations, submits
a justification to such Committees that in-
cludes a description of, and the estimated
costs associated with, the support or con-
tinuation of such program.
(2) FUNDING.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, funds transferred by the De-
partment of Defense to the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development for assistance for
foreign countries and international organiza-
tions shall be subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations.
(3) NOTIFICATION ON EXCESS DEFENSE ARTI-
CLES.—Prior to providing excess Department
of Defense articles in accordance with sec-
tion 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the Department of Defense shall notify
the Committees on Appropriations to the
same extent and under the same conditions
as other committees pursuant to subsection
(f) of that section: Provided, That before
issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense
articles under the Arms Export Control Act,
the Department of Defense shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations in accordance
with the regular notification procedures of
such Committees if such defense articles are
significant military equipment (as defined in
section 47(9) of the Arms Export Control Act)
or are valued (in terms of original acquisi-
tion cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or if notifica-
tion is required elsewhere in this Act for the
use of appropriated funds for specific coun-
tries that would receive such excess defense
articles: Provided further, That such Commit-
tees shall also be informed of the original ac-
quisition cost of such defense articles.
(e) WAIVER.—The requirements of this sec-
tion or any similar provision of this Act or
any other Act, including any prior Act re-
quiring notification in accordance with the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, may be waived if
failure to do so would pose a substantial risk
to human health or welfare: Provided, That
in case of any such waiver, notification to
the Committees on Appropriations shall be
provided as early as practicable, but in no
event later than 3 days after taking the ac-
tion to which such notification requirement
was applicable, in the context of the cir-
cumstances necessitating such waiver: Pro-
vided further, That any notification provided
pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
(f) COUNTRY NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act may be obligated
or expended for assistance for Afghanistan,
Bahrain, Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia, Colom-
bia, Cuba, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Leb-
anon, Libya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan,
Philippines, the Russian Federation, Soma-
lia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria,
Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Yemen, and
Zimbabwe except as provided through the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(g) TRUST FUNDS.—Funds appropriated or
otherwise made available in title III of this
Act and prior Acts making funds available
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs that are made
available for a trust fund held by an inter-
national financial institution shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That such notification shall include the in-
formation specified under this section in the
explanatory statement accompanying the
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs Appropriations Act,
2018 (division K of Public Law 115–141).
(h) OTHER PROGRAM NOTIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENT.—
(1) DIPLOMATIC PROGRAMS.—Funds appro-
priated under title I of this Act under the
heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ that are
made available for a pilot program for lat-
eral entry into the Foreign Service shall be
subject to prior consultation with, and the
regular notification procedures of, the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(2) OTHER PROGRAMS.—Funds appropriated
by this Act that are made available for the
following programs and activities shall be
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations—
(A) The Global Engagement Center, except
that the Secretary of State shall consult
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees prior to submitting such notification;
(B) The Power Africa initiative, or any
successor program;
(C) Community-based police assistance
conducted pursuant to the authority of sec-
tion 7049(a)(1) of this Act;
(D) Programs to counter foreign fighters
and extremist organizations, pursuant to
section 7071(a) of this Act;
(E) The Relief and Recovery Fund;
(F) The Indo-Pacific Strategy;
(G) The Global Security Contingency
Fund;
(H) The Countering Russian Influence
Fund; and
(I) Programs to end modern slavery.
(i) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under titles III and IV
that are withheld from obligation or other-
wise not programmed as a result of applica-
tion of a provision of law in this or any other
Act shall, if reprogrammed, be subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(j) REQUIREMENT TO INFORM, COORDINATE,
AND CONSULT.—
(1) The Secretary of State shall promptly
inform the appropriate congressional com-
mittees of each instance in which funds ap-
propriated by this Act for assistance for
Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, the Counterter-
rorism Partnership Fund, the Relief and Re-
covery Fund, or programs to counter extre-
mism and foreign fighters abroad, have been
diverted or destroyed, to include the type
and amount of assistance, a description of
the incident and parties involved, and an ex-
planation of the response of the Department
of State or USAID, as appropriate: Provided,
That the Secretary shall ensure such funds
are coordinated with, and complement, the
programs of other United States Government
departments and agencies and international
partners in such countries and on such ac-
tivities.
(2) The Secretary of State shall consult
with the Committees on Appropriations at
least seven days prior to informing a govern-
ment of, or publically announcing a decision
on, the suspension of assistance to a country
or a territory, including as a result of an
interagency review of such assistance, from
funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts
making appropriations for the Department
of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams.
DOCUMENT REQUESTS, RECORDS MANAGEMENT,
AND RELATED CYBERSECURITY PROTECTIONS
SEC. 7016. (a) REQUESTS FOR DOCUMENTS.—
None of the funds appropriated or made
available pursuant to titles III through VI of
this Act shall be available to a nongovern-
mental organization, including any con-
tractor, which fails to provide upon timely
request any document, file, or record nec-
essary to the auditing requirements of the
Department of State and the United States
Agency for International Development.
(b) RECORDS MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
CYBERSECURITY PROTECTIONS.—
(1) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the headings ‘‘Dip-
lomatic Programs’’ and ‘‘Capital Investment
Fund’’ in title I, and ‘‘Operating Expenses’’
and ‘‘Capital Investment Fund’’ in title II
that are made available to the Department
of State and USAID may be made available
to support the use or establishment of email
accounts or email servers created outside the
.gov domain or not fitted for automated
records management as part of a Federal
government records management program in
contravention of the Presidential and Fed-
eral Records Act Amendments of 2014 (Public
Law 113–187).
(2) DIRECTIVES.—The Secretary of State
and USAID Administrator shall—
(A) regularly review and update the poli-
cies, directives, and oversight necessary to
comply with Federal statutes, regulations,
and presidential executive orders and memo-
randa concerning the preservation of all
records made or received in the conduct of
official business, including record emails, in-
stant messaging, and other online tools;
(B) use funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’
and ‘‘Capital Investment Fund’’ in title I,
and ‘‘Operating Expenses’’ and ‘‘Capital In-
vestment Fund’’ in title II, as appropriate, to
improve Federal records management pursu-
ant to the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C.
Chapters 21, 29, 31, and 33) and other applica-
ble Federal records management statutes,
regulations, or policies for the Department
of State and USAID;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1100 January 23, 2019
(C) direct departing employees that all
Federal records generated by such employ-
ees, including senior officials, belong to the
Federal Government;
(D) improve the response time for identi-
fying and retrieving Federal records, includ-
ing requests made pursuant to section 552 of
title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Freedom of Information
Act’’); and
(E) strengthen cyber security measures to
mitigate vulnerabilities, including those re-
sulting from the use of personal email ac-
counts or servers outside the .gov domain,
improve the process to identify and remove
inactive user accounts, update and enforce
guidance related to the control of national
security information, and implement the
recommendations of the applicable reports of
the cognizant Office of Inspector General.
USE OF FUNDS IN CONTRAVENTION OF THIS ACT
SEC. 7017. If the President makes a deter-
mination not to comply with any provision
of this Act on constitutional grounds, the
head of the relevant Federal agency shall no-
tify the Committees on Appropriations in
writing within 5 days of such determination,
the basis for such determination and any re-
sulting changes to program and policy.
PROHIBITION ON FUNDING FOR ABORTIONS AND
INVOLUNTARY STERILIZATION
SEC. 7018. None of the funds made available
to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay
for the performance of abortions as a method
of family planning or to motivate or coerce
any person to practice abortions. None of the
funds made available to carry out part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as
amended, may be used to pay for the per-
formance of involuntary sterilization as a
method of family planning or to coerce or
provide any financial incentive to any person
to undergo sterilizations. None of the funds
made available to carry out part I of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended,
may be used to pay for any biomedical re-
search which relates in whole or in part, to
methods of, or the performance of, abortions
or involuntary sterilization as a means of
family planning. None of the funds made
available to carry out part I of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be
obligated or expended for any country or or-
ganization if the President certifies that the
use of these funds by any such country or or-
ganization would violate any of the above
provisions related to abortions and involun-
tary sterilizations.
ALLOCATIONS AND REPORTS
SEC. 7019. (a) ALLOCATION TABLES.—Subject
to subsection (b), funds appropriated by this
Act under titles III through V shall be made
available in the amounts specifically des-
ignated in the respective tables included in
the explanatory statement described in sec-
tion 4 (in the matter preceding division A of
this consolidated Act): Provided, That such
designated amounts for foreign countries and
international organizations shall serve as
the amounts for such countries and inter-
national organizations transmitted to Con-
gress in the report required by section 653(a)
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
(b) AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS.—Unless other-
wise provided for by this Act, the Secretary
of State and the Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, as applicable, may only deviate up to
10 percent from the amounts specifically des-
ignated in the respective tables included in
the explanatory statement described in sec-
tion 4 (in the matter preceding division A of
this consolidated Act): Provided, That such
percentage may be exceeded only if the Sec-
retary of State and USAID Administrator, as
applicable, determines and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations on a case-by-
case basis that such deviation is necessary to
respond to significant, exigent, or unforeseen
events or to address other exceptional cir-
cumstances directly related to the national
security interest of the United States: Pro-
vided further, That deviations pursuant to
the previous proviso shall be subject to prior
consultation with, and the regular notifica-
tion procedures of, the Committees on Ap-
propriations.
(c) LIMITATION.—For specifically des-
ignated amounts that are included, pursuant
to subsection (a), in the report required by
section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961, no deviations authorized by sub-
section (b) may take place until submission
of such report.
(d) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply
to—
(A) amounts designated for ‘‘International
Military Education and Training’’ in the re-
spective tables included in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act);
(B) funds for which the initial period of
availability has expired;
(C) amounts designated by this Act as min-
imum funding requirements; and
(D) funds made available for a country pur-
suant to sections 7043(c), 7047(d), and 7071(b)
of this Act.
(2) The authority in subsection (b) to devi-
ate below amounts designated in the respec-
tive tables included in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act) shall not apply to the table included
under the heading ‘‘Global Health Pro-
grams’’ in such explanatory statement.
(3) With respect to the amounts designated
for ‘‘Global Programs’’ in the table under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ included
in the explanatory statement described in
section 4 (in the matter preceding division A
of this consolidated Act), subsection (b) shall
be applied by substituting ‘‘5 percent’’ for
‘‘10 percent’’.
(e) REPORTS.—The Secretary of State and
the USAID Administrator, as appropriate,
shall submit the reports required, in the
manner described, in House Report 115–829,
Senate Report 115–282, and the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act), unless directed otherwise in such ex-
planatory statement.
REPRESENTATION AND ENTERTAINMENT
EXPENSES
SEC. 7020. (a) USES OF FUNDS.—Each Fed-
eral department, agency, or entity funded in
titles I or II of this Act, and the Department
of the Treasury and independent agencies
funded in titles III or VI of this Act, shall
take steps to ensure that domestic and over-
seas representation and entertainment ex-
penses further official agency business and
United States foreign policy interests, and—
(1) are primarily for fostering relations
outside of the Executive Branch;
(2) are principally for meals and events of
a protocol nature;
(3) are not for employee-only events; and
(4) do not include activities that are sub-
stantially of a recreational character.
(b) LIMITATIONS.—None of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available by this
Act under the headings ‘‘International Mili-
tary Education and Training’’ or ‘‘Foreign
Military Financing Program’’ for Informa-
tional Program activities or under the head-
ings ‘‘Global Health Programs’’, ‘‘Develop-
ment Assistance’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’ may be obligated or ex-
pended to pay for—
(1) alcoholic beverages; or
(2) entertainment expenses for activities
that are substantially of a recreational char-
acter, including entrance fees at sporting
events, theatrical and musical productions,
and amusement parks.
PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENTS
SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM
SEC. 7021. (a) LETHAL MILITARY EQUIPMENT
EXPORTS.—
(1) PROHIBITION.—None of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available under ti-
tles III through VI of this Act may be made
available to any foreign government which
provides lethal military equipment to a
country the government of which the Sec-
retary of State has determined supports
international terrorism for purposes of sec-
tion 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of
1979 as continued in effect pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act: Provided, That the prohibition under
this section with respect to a foreign govern-
ment shall terminate 12 months after that
government ceases to provide such military
equipment: Provided further, That this sec-
tion applies with respect to lethal military
equipment provided under a contract entered
into after October 1, 1997.
(2) DETERMINATION.—Assistance restricted
by paragraph (1) or any other similar provi-
sion of law, may be furnished if the Presi-
dent determines that to do so is important
to the national interest of the United States.
(3) REPORT.—Whenever the President
makes a determination pursuant to para-
graph (2), the President shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations a report with
respect to the furnishing of such assistance,
including a detailed explanation of the as-
sistance to be provided, the estimated dollar
amount of such assistance, and an expla-
nation of how the assistance furthers United
States national interest.
(b) BILATERAL ASSISTANCE.—
(1) LIMITATIONS.—Funds appropriated for
bilateral assistance in titles III through VI
of this Act and funds appropriated under any
such title in prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs, shall not
be made available to any foreign government
which the President determines—
(A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to
any individual or group which has com-
mitted an act of international terrorism;
(B) otherwise supports international ter-
rorism; or
(C) is controlled by an organization des-
ignated as a terrorist organization under sec-
tion 219 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
(2) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of paragraph (1) to a government
if the President determines that national se-
curity or humanitarian reasons justify such
waiver: Provided, That the President shall
publish each such waiver in the Federal Reg-
ister and, at least 15 days before the waiver
takes effect, shall notify the Committees on
Appropriations of the waiver (including the
justification for the waiver) in accordance
with the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
AUTHORIZATION REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 7022. Funds appropriated by this Act,
except funds appropriated under the heading
‘‘Trade and Development Agency’’, may be
obligated and expended notwithstanding sec-
tion 10 of Public Law 91–672 (22 U.S.C. 2412),
section 15 of the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section
313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1101
January 23, 2019
6212), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
DEFINITION OF PROGRAM, PROJECT, AND
ACTIVITY
SEC. 7023. For the purpose of titles II
through VI of this Act ‘‘program, project,
and activity’’ shall be defined at the appro-
priations Act account level and shall include
all appropriations and authorizations Acts
funding directives, ceilings, and limitations
with the exception that for the following ac-
counts: ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘Assist-
ance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’,
and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’,
‘‘program, project, and activity’’ shall also
be considered to include country, regional,
and central program level funding within
each such account; and for the development
assistance accounts of the United States
Agency for International Development, ‘‘pro-
gram, project, and activity’’ shall also be
considered to include central, country, re-
gional, and program level funding, either
as—
(1) justified to Congress; or
(2) allocated by the Executive Branch in
accordance with a report, to be provided to
the Committees on Appropriations within 30
days after enactment of this Act, as required
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 or as modified pursuant to sec-
tion 7019 of this Act.
AUTHORITIES FOR THE PEACE CORPS, INTER-
AMERICAN FOUNDATION AND UNITED STATES
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
SEC. 7024. Unless expressly provided to the
contrary, provisions of this or any other Act,
including provisions contained in prior Acts
authorizing or making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations, and
related programs, shall not be construed to
prohibit activities authorized by or con-
ducted under the Peace Corps Act, the Inter-
American Foundation Act or the African De-
velopment Foundation Act: Provided, That
prior to conducting activities in a country
for which assistance is prohibited, the agen-
cy shall consult with the Committees on Ap-
propriations and report to such Committees
within 15 days of taking such action.
COMMERCE, TRADE AND SURPLUS COMMODITIES
SEC. 7025. (a) WORLD MARKETS.—None of
the funds appropriated or made available
pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act
for direct assistance and none of the funds
otherwise made available to the Export-Im-
port Bank and the Overseas Private Invest-
ment Corporation shall be obligated or ex-
pended to finance any loan, any assistance,
or any other financial commitments for es-
tablishing or expanding production of any
commodity for export by any country other
than the United States, if the commodity is
likely to be in surplus on world markets at
the time the resulting productive capacity is
expected to become operative and if the as-
sistance will cause substantial injury to
United States producers of the same, similar,
or competing commodity: Provided, That
such prohibition shall not apply to the Ex-
port-Import Bank if in the judgment of its
Board of Directors the benefits to industry
and employment in the United States are
likely to outweigh the injury to United
States producers of the same, similar, or
competing commodity, and the Chairman of
the Board so notifies the Committees on Ap-
propriations: Provided further, That this sub-
section shall not prohibit—
(1) activities in a country that is eligible
for assistance from the International Devel-
opment Association, is not eligible for assist-
ance from the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, and does not ex-
port on a consistent basis the agricultural
commodity with respect to which assistance
is furnished; or
(2) activities in a country the President de-
termines is recovering from widespread con-
flict, a humanitarian crisis, or a complex
emergency.
(b) EXPORTS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this or any other Act to carry out
chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 shall be available for any testing
or breeding feasibility study, variety im-
provement or introduction, consultancy,
publication, conference, or training in con-
nection with the growth or production in a
foreign country of an agricultural com-
modity for export which would compete with
a similar commodity grown or produced in
the United States: Provided, That this sub-
section shall not prohibit—
(1) activities designed to increase food se-
curity in developing countries where such
activities will not have a significant impact
on the export of agricultural commodities of
the United States;
(2) research activities intended primarily
to benefit United States producers;
(3) activities in a country that is eligible
for assistance from the International Devel-
opment Association, is not eligible for assist-
ance from the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, and does not ex-
port on a consistent basis the agricultural
commodity with respect to which assistance
is furnished; or
(4) activities in a country the President de-
termines is recovering from widespread con-
flict, a humanitarian crisis, or a complex
emergency.
(c) INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITU-
TIONS.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall
instruct the United States executive direc-
tors of the international financial institu-
tions to use the voice and vote of the United
States to oppose any assistance by such in-
stitutions, using funds appropriated or made
available by this Act, for the production or
extraction of any commodity or mineral for
export, if it is in surplus on world markets
and if the assistance will cause substantial
injury to United States producers of the
same, similar, or competing commodity.
SEPARATE ACCOUNTS
SEC. 7026. (a) SEPARATE ACCOUNTS FOR
LOCAL CURRENCIES.—
(1) AGREEMENTS.—If assistance is furnished
to the government of a foreign country
under chapters 1 and 10 of part I or chapter
4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 under agreements which result in the
generation of local currencies of that coun-
try, the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development
shall—
(A) require that local currencies be depos-
ited in a separate account established by
that government;
(B) enter into an agreement with that gov-
ernment which sets forth—
(i) the amount of the local currencies to be
generated; and
(ii) the terms and conditions under which
the currencies so deposited may be utilized,
consistent with this section; and
(C) establish by agreement with that gov-
ernment the responsibilities of USAID and
that government to monitor and account for
deposits into and disbursements from the
separate account.
(2) USES OF LOCAL CURRENCIES.—As may be
agreed upon with the foreign government,
local currencies deposited in a separate ac-
count pursuant to subsection (a), or an
equivalent amount of local currencies, shall
be used only—
(A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (as the case may be), for such pur-
poses as—
(i) project and sector assistance activities;
or
(ii) debt and deficit financing; or
(B) for the administrative requirements of
the United States Government.
(3) PROGRAMMING ACCOUNTABILITY.—USAID
shall take all necessary steps to ensure that
the equivalent of the local currencies dis-
bursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from
the separate account established pursuant to
subsection (a)(1) are used for the purposes
agreed upon pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
(4) TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE PRO-
GRAMS.—Upon termination of assistance to a
country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (as the case may be), any
unencumbered balances of funds which re-
main in a separate account established pur-
suant to subsection (a) shall be disposed of
for such purposes as may be agreed to by the
government of that country and the United
States Government.
(5) REPORT.—The USAID Administrator
shall report as part of the congressional
budget justification submitted to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on the use of local
currencies for the administrative require-
ments of the United States Government as
authorized in subsection (a)(2)(B), and such
report shall include the amount of local cur-
rency (and United States dollar equivalent)
used or to be used for such purpose in each
applicable country.
(b) SEPARATE ACCOUNTS FOR CASH TRANS-
FERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If assistance is made
available to the government of a foreign
country, under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961, as cash transfer assistance or as
nonproject sector assistance, that country
shall be required to maintain such funds in a
separate account and not commingle with
any other funds.
(2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS OF
LAW.—Such funds may be obligated and ex-
pended notwithstanding provisions of law
which are inconsistent with the nature of
this assistance including provisions which
are referenced in the Joint Explanatory
Statement of the Committee of Conference
accompanying House Joint Resolution 648
(House Report No. 98–1159).
(3) NOTIFICATION.—At least 15 days prior to
obligating any such cash transfer or non-
project sector assistance, the President shall
submit a notification through the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations, which shall include a de-
tailed description of how the funds proposed
to be made available will be used, with a dis-
cussion of the United States interests that
will be served by such assistance (including,
as appropriate, a description of the economic
policy reforms that will be promoted by such
assistance).
(4) EXEMPTION.—Nonproject sector assist-
ance funds may be exempt from the require-
ments of paragraph (1) only through the reg-
ular notification procedures of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations.
ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE
SEC. 7027. (a) ASSISTANCE THROUGH NON-
GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS.—Restric-
tions contained in this or any other Act with
respect to assistance for a country shall not
be construed to restrict assistance in support
of programs of nongovernmental organiza-
tions from funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 11,
and 12 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and from
funds appropriated under the heading ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1102 January 23, 2019
Asia’’: Provided, That before using the au-
thority of this subsection to furnish assist-
ance in support of programs of nongovern-
mental organizations, the President shall no-
tify the Committees on Appropriations pur-
suant to the regular notification procedures,
including a description of the program to be
assisted, the assistance to be provided, and
the reasons for furnishing such assistance:
Provided further, That nothing in this sub-
section shall be construed to alter any exist-
ing statutory prohibitions against abortion
or involuntary sterilizations contained in
this or any other Act.
(b) PUBLIC LAW 480.—During fiscal year
2019, restrictions contained in this or any
other Act with respect to assistance for a
country shall not be construed to restrict as-
sistance under the Food for Peace Act (Pub-
lic Law 83–480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.): Provided,
That none of the funds appropriated to carry
out title I of such Act and made available
pursuant to this subsection may be obligated
or expended except as provided through the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(c) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not
apply—
(1) with respect to section 620A of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 or any com-
parable provision of law prohibiting assist-
ance to countries that support international
terrorism; or
(2) with respect to section 116 of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 or any com-
parable provision of law prohibiting assist-
ance to the government of a country that
violates internationally recognized human
rights.
LOCAL COMPETITION
SEC. 7028. (a) REQUIREMENTS FOR EXCEP-
TIONS TO COMPETITION FOR LOCAL ENTITIES.—
Funds appropriated by this Act that are
made available to the United States Agency
for International Development may only be
made available for limited competitions
through local entities if—
(1) prior to the determination to limit
competition to local entities, USAID has—
(A) assessed the level of local capacity to
effectively implement, manage, and account
for programs included in such competition;
and
(B) documented the written results of the
assessment and decisions made; and
(2) prior to making an award after limiting
competition to local entities—
(A) each successful local entity has been
determined to be responsible in accordance
with USAID guidelines; and
(B) effective monitoring and evaluation
systems are in place to ensure that award
funding is used for its intended purposes; and
(3) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed.
(b) REPORT.—In addition to the require-
ments of subsection (a)(1), the USAID Ad-
ministrator shall report to the appropriate
congressional committees not later than 45
days after the end of fiscal year 2019 on all
awards subject to limited or no competition
for local entities: Provided, That such report
shall be posted on the USAID website: Pro-
vided further, That the requirements of this
subsection shall only apply to awards in ex-
cess of $3,000,000 and sole source awards to
local entities in excess of $2,000,000.
(c) EXTENSION OF PROCUREMENT AUTHOR-
ITY.—Section 7077 of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of
Public Law 112–74) shall continue in effect
during fiscal year 2019.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
SEC. 7029. (a) EVALUATIONS AND REPORT.—
The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
the United States executive director of each
international financial institution to seek to
require that such institution adopts and im-
plements a publicly available policy, includ-
ing the strategic use of peer reviews and ex-
ternal experts, to conduct independent, in-
depth evaluations of the effectiveness of at
least 25 percent of all loans, grants, pro-
grams, and significant analytical non-lend-
ing activities in advancing the institution’s
goals of reducing poverty and promoting eq-
uitable economic growth, consistent with
relevant safeguards, to ensure that decisions
to support such loans, grants, programs, and
activities are based on accurate data and ob-
jective analysis: Provided, That not later
than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on steps taken in
fiscal year 2018 by the United States execu-
tive directors and the international financial
institutions consistent with this subsection
compared to the previous fiscal year.
(b) SAFEGUARDS.—
(1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States Executive Director
of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the International De-
velopment Association to vote against any
loan, grant, policy, or strategy if such insti-
tution has adopted and is implementing any
social or environmental safeguard relevant
to such loan, grant, policy, or strategy that
provides less protection than World Bank
safeguards in effect on September 30, 2015.
(2) The Secretary of the Treasury should
instruct the United States executive director
of each international financial institution to
vote against loans or other financing for
projects unless such projects—
(A) provide for accountability and trans-
parency, including the collection,
verification and publication of beneficial
ownership information related to extractive
industries and on-site monitoring during the
life of the project;
(B) will be developed and carried out in ac-
cordance with best practices regarding envi-
ronmental conservation; cultural protection;
and empowerment of local populations, in-
cluding free, prior and informed consent of
affected indigenous communities;
(C) do not provide incentives for, or facili-
tate, forced displacement; and
(D) do not partner with or otherwise in-
volve enterprises owned or controlled by the
armed forces.
(c) COMPENSATION.—None of the funds ap-
propriated under title V of this Act may be
made as payment to any international finan-
cial institution while the United States exec-
utive director to such institution is com-
pensated by the institution at a rate which,
together with whatever compensation such
executive director receives from the United
States, is in excess of the rate provided for
an individual occupying a position at level
IV of the Executive Schedule under section
5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while
any alternate United States executive direc-
tor to such institution is compensated by the
institution at a rate in excess of the rate
provided for an individual occupying a posi-
tion at level V of the Executive Schedule
under section 5316 of title 5, United States
Code.
(d) HUMAN RIGHTS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States ex-
ecutive director of each international finan-
cial institution to promote human rights due
diligence and risk management, as appro-
priate, in connection with any loan, grant,
policy, or strategy of such institution in ac-
cordance with the criteria specified under
this subsection in Senate Report 115–282: Pro-
vided, That prior to voting on any such loan,
grant, policy, or strategy the executive di-
rector shall consult with the Assistant Sec-
retary for Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor, Department of State, if the executive
director has reason to believe that such loan,
grant, policy, or strategy could result in
forced displacement or other violation of
human rights.
(e) FRAUD AND CORRUPTION.—The Secretary
of the Treasury shall instruct the United
States executive director of each inter-
national financial institution to promote in
loan, grant, and other financing agreements
improvements in borrowing countries’ finan-
cial management and judicial capacity to in-
vestigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and
corruption.
(f) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INFORMATION.—
The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
the United States executive director of each
international financial institution to seek to
require that such institution collects,
verifies, and publishes, to the maximum ex-
tent practicable, beneficial ownership infor-
mation (excluding proprietary information)
for any corporation or limited liability com-
pany, other than a publicly listed company,
that receives funds from any such financial
institution: Provided, That not later than 45
days after enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations on steps taken in fis-
cal year 2018 by the United States executive
directors and the international financial in-
stitutions consistent with this subsection
compared to the previous fiscal year.
(g) WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS.—The
Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the
United States executive director of each
international financial institution to seek to
require that each such institution is effec-
tively implementing and enforcing policies
and procedures which reflect best practices
for the protection of whistleblowers from re-
taliation, including best practices for—
(1) protection against retaliation for inter-
nal and lawful public disclosure;
(2) legal burdens of proof;
(3) statutes of limitation for reporting re-
taliation;
(4) access to independent adjudicative bod-
ies, including external arbitration; and
(5) results that eliminate the effects of
proven retaliation.
DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 7030. In order to enhance the contin-
ued participation of nongovernmental orga-
nizations in debt-for-development and debt-
for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental or-
ganization which is a grantee or contractor
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development may place in interest
bearing accounts local currencies which ac-
crue to that organization as a result of eco-
nomic assistance provided under title III of
this Act and, subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations, any interest earned on such in-
vestment shall be used for the purpose for
which the assistance was provided to that or-
ganization.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
TRANSPARENCY
SEC. 7031. (a) LIMITATION ON DIRECT GOV-
ERNMENT-TO-GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE.—
(1) REQUIREMENTS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act may be made available for direct
government-to-government assistance only
if—
(A)(i) each implementing agency or min-
istry to receive assistance has been assessed
and is considered to have the systems re-
quired to manage such assistance and any
identified vulnerabilities or weaknesses of
such agency or ministry have been ad-
dressed;
(ii) the recipient agency or ministry em-
ploys and utilizes staff with the necessary
technical, financial, and management capa-
bilities;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1103
January 23, 2019
(iii) the recipient agency or ministry has
adopted competitive procurement policies
and systems;
(iv) effective monitoring and evaluation
systems are in place to ensure that such as-
sistance is used for its intended purposes;
(v) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed;
and
(vi) the government of the recipient coun-
try is taking steps to publicly disclose on an
annual basis its national budget, to include
income and expenditures;
(B) the recipient government is in compli-
ance with the principles set forth in section
7013 of this Act;
(C) the recipient agency or ministry is not
headed or controlled by an organization des-
ignated as a foreign terrorist organization
under section 219 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
(D) the Government of the United States
and the government of the recipient country
have agreed, in writing, on clear and achiev-
able objectives for the use of such assistance,
which should be made available on a cost-re-
imbursable basis; and
(E) the recipient government is taking
steps to protect the rights of civil society,
including freedoms of expression, associa-
tion, and assembly.
(2) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—In ad-
dition to the requirements in paragraph (1),
no funds may be made available for direct
government-to-government assistance with-
out prior consultation with, and notification
of, the Committees on Appropriations: Pro-
vided, That such notification shall contain
an explanation of how the proposed activity
meets the requirements of paragraph (1): Pro-
vided further, That the requirements of this
paragraph shall only apply to direct govern-
ment-to-government assistance in excess of
$10,000,000 and all funds available for cash
transfer, budget support, and cash payments
to individuals.
(3) SUSPENSION OF ASSISTANCE.—The Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development or the Secretary
of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any
direct government-to-government assistance
if the Administrator or the Secretary has
credible information of material misuse of
such assistance, unless the Administrator or
the Secretary reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that it is in the national in-
terest of the United States to continue such
assistance, including a justification, or that
such misuse has been appropriately ad-
dressed.
(4) SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary of State shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations, concurrent with the
fiscal year 2020 congressional budget jus-
tification materials, amounts planned for as-
sistance described in paragraph (1) by coun-
try, proposed funding amount, source of
funds, and type of assistance.
(5) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
enactment of this Act and every 6 months
thereafter until September 30, 2020, the
USAID Administrator shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations a report
that—
(A) details all assistance described in para-
graph (1) provided during the previous 6-
month period by country, funding amount,
source of funds, and type of such assistance;
and
(B) the type of procurement instrument or
mechanism utilized and whether the assist-
ance was provided on a reimbursable basis.
(6) DEBT SERVICE PAYMENT PROHIBITION.—
None of the funds made available by this Act
may be used by the government of any for-
eign country for debt service payments owed
by any country to any international finan-
cial institution.
(b) NATIONAL BUDGET AND CONTRACT
TRANSPARENCY.—
(1) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF FISCAL
TRANSPARENCY.—The Secretary of State
shall continue to update and strengthen the
‘‘minimum requirements of fiscal trans-
parency’’ for each government receiving as-
sistance appropriated by this Act, as identi-
fied in the report required by section 7031(b)
of the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113–
76).
(2) DEFINITION.—For purposes of paragraph
(1), ‘‘minimum requirements of fiscal trans-
parency’’ are requirements consistent with
those in subsection (a)(1), and the public dis-
closure of national budget documentation (to
include receipts and expenditures by min-
istry) and government contracts and licenses
for natural resource extraction (to include
bidding and concession allocation practices).
(3) DETERMINATION AND REPORT.—For each
government identified pursuant to paragraph
(1), the Secretary of State, not later than 180
days after enactment of this Act, shall make
or update any determination of ‘‘significant
progress’’ or ‘‘no significant progress’’ in
meeting the minimum requirements of fiscal
transparency, and make such determinations
publicly available in an annual ‘‘Fiscal
Transparency Report’’ to be posted on the
Department of State website: Provided, That
the Secretary shall identify the significant
progress made by each such government to
publicly disclose national budget docu-
mentation, contracts, and licenses which are
additional to such information disclosed in
previous fiscal years, and include specific
recommendations of short- and long-term
steps such government should take to im-
prove fiscal transparency: Provided further,
That the annual report shall include a de-
tailed description of how funds appropriated
by this Act are being used to improve fiscal
transparency, and identify benchmarks for
measuring progress.
(4) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated under
title III of this Act shall be made available
for programs and activities to assist govern-
ments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to
improve budget transparency and to support
civil society organizations in such countries
that promote budget transparency: Provided,
That such sums shall be in addition to funds
otherwise available for such purposes: Pro-
vided further, That a description of the uses
of such funds shall be included in the annual
‘‘Fiscal Transparency Report’’ required by
paragraph (3).
(c) ANTI-KLEPTOCRACY AND HUMAN
RIGHTS.—
(1) INELIGIBILITY.—
(A) Officials of foreign governments and
their immediate family members about
whom the Secretary of State has credible in-
formation have been involved in significant
corruption, including corruption related to
the extraction of natural resources, or a
gross violation of human rights shall be in-
eligible for entry into the United States.
(B) The Secretary shall also publicly or
privately designate or identify officials of
foreign governments and their immediate
family members about whom the Secretary
has such credible information without regard
to whether the individual has applied for a
visa.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Individuals shall not be in-
eligible if entry into the United States would
further important United States law enforce-
ment objectives or is necessary to permit the
United States to fulfill its obligations under
the United Nations Headquarters Agreement:
Provided, That nothing in paragraph (1) shall
be construed to derogate from United States
Government obligations under applicable
international agreements.
(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive the
application of paragraph (1) if the Secretary
determines that the waiver would serve a
compelling national interest or that the cir-
cumstances which caused the individual to
be ineligible have changed sufficiently.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report, including a clas-
sified annex if necessary, to the Committees
on Appropriations and the Committees on
the Judiciary describing the information re-
lated to corruption or violation of human
rights concerning each of the individuals
found ineligible in the previous 12 months
pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) as well as the
individuals who the Secretary designated or
identified pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), or
who would be ineligible but for the applica-
tion of paragraph (2), a list of any waivers
provided under paragraph (3), and the jus-
tification for each waiver.
(5) POSTING OF REPORT.—Any unclassified
portion of the report required under para-
graph (4) shall be posted on the Department
of State website.
(6) CLARIFICATION.—For purposes of para-
graphs (1)(B), (4), and (5), the records of the
Department of State and of diplomatic and
consular offices of the United States per-
taining to the issuance or refusal of visas or
permits to enter the United States shall not
be considered confidential.
(d) EXTRACTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated by
this Act shall be made available to promote
and support transparency and accountability
of expenditures and revenues related to the
extraction of natural resources, including by
strengthening implementation and moni-
toring of the Extractive Industries Trans-
parency Initiative, implementing and enforc-
ing section 8204 of the Food, Conservation,
and Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–246;
122 Stat. 2052) and the amendments made by
such section, and to prevent the sale of con-
flict diamonds, and provide technical assist-
ance to promote independent audit mecha-
nisms and support civil society participation
in natural resource management.
(2) UNITED STATES POLICY.—
(A) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
form the management of the international
financial institutions, and post on the De-
partment of the Treasury website, that it is
the policy of the United States to vote
against any assistance by such institutions
(including any loan, credit, grant, or guar-
antee) to any country for the extraction and
export of a natural resource if the govern-
ment of such country has in place laws, regu-
lations, or procedures to prevent or limit the
public disclosure of company payments as
required by United States law, and unless
such government has adopted laws, regula-
tions, or procedures in the sector in which
assistance is being considered for—
(i) accurately accounting for and public
disclosure of payments to the host govern-
ment by companies involved in the extrac-
tion and export of natural resources;
(ii) the independent auditing of accounts
receiving such payments and public disclo-
sure of the findings of such audits; and
(iii) public disclosure of such documents as
Host Government Agreements, Concession
Agreements, and bidding documents, allow-
ing in any such dissemination or disclosure
for the redaction of, or exceptions for, infor-
mation that is commercially proprietary or
that would create competitive disadvantage.
(B) The requirements of subparagraph (A)
shall not apply to assistance for the purpose
of building the capacity of such government
to meet the requirements of this subpara-
graph.
(e) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE WEBSITE.—Funds
appropriated by this Act under titles I and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1104 January 23, 2019
II, and funds made available for any inde-
pendent agency in title III, as appropriate,
shall be made available to support the provi-
sion of additional information on United
States Government foreign assistance on the
Department of State foreign assistance
website: Provided, That all Federal agencies
funded under this Act shall provide such in-
formation on foreign assistance, upon re-
quest, to the Department of State.
DEMOCRACY PROGRAMS
SEC. 7032. (a) FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the headings ‘‘Develop-
ment Assistance’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, and
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’, not less than $2,400,000,000
shall be made available for democracy pro-
grams.
(2) PROGRAMS.—Of the funds made avail-
able for democracy programs under the head-
ings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Assist-
ance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’
pursuant to paragraph (1), not less than
$89,540,000 shall be made available to the Bu-
reau of Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor, Department of State, at not less than
the amounts specified for certain countries
and regional programs designated in the
table under this section in the explanatory
statement described in section 4 (in the mat-
ter preceding division A of this consolidated
Act).
(b) AUTHORITIES.—
(1) Funds made available by this Act for
democracy programs pursuant to subsection
(a) and under the heading ‘‘National Endow-
ment for Democracy’’ may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
and with regard to the National Endowment
for Democracy (NED), any regulation.
(2) Funds made available by this Act for
the NED are made available pursuant to the
authority of the National Endowment for
Democracy Act (title V of Public Law 98–
164), including all decisions regarding the se-
lection of beneficiaries.
(c) DEFINITION OF DEMOCRACY PROGRAMS.—
For purposes of funds appropriated by this
Act, the term ‘‘democracy programs’’ means
programs that support good governance,
credible and competitive elections, freedom
of expression, association, assembly, and re-
ligion, human rights, labor rights, inde-
pendent media, and the rule of law, and that
otherwise strengthen the capacity of demo-
cratic political parties, governments, non-
governmental organizations and institu-
tions, and citizens to support the develop-
ment of democratic states and institutions
that are responsive and accountable to citi-
zens.
(d) PROGRAM PRIORITIZATION.—Funds made
available pursuant to this section that are
made available for programs to strengthen
government institutions shall be prioritized
for those institutions that demonstrate a
commitment to democracy and the rule of
law, as determined by the Secretary of State
or the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development, as
appropriate.
(e) RESTRICTION ON PRIOR APPROVAL.—With
respect to the provision of assistance for de-
mocracy programs in this Act, the organiza-
tions implementing such assistance, the spe-
cific nature of that assistance, and the par-
ticipants in such programs shall not be sub-
ject to the prior approval by the government
of any foreign country: Provided, That the
Secretary of State, in coordination with the
USAID Administrator, shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations, not later
than 120 days after enactment of this Act,
detailing steps taken by the Department of
State and USAID to comply with the re-
quirements of this subsection.
(f) CONTINUATION OF CURRENT PRACTICES.—
USAID shall continue to implement civil so-
ciety and political competition and con-
sensus building programs abroad with funds
appropriated by this Act in a manner that
recognizes the unique benefits of grants and
cooperative agreements in implementing
such programs: Provided, That nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed to affect
the ability of any entity, including United
States small businesses, from competing for
proposals for USAID-funded civil society and
political competition and consensus building
programs.
(g) INFORMING THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT
FOR DEMOCRACY.—The Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State, and the Assistant Ad-
ministrator for Democracy, Conflict, and Hu-
manitarian Assistance, USAID, shall regu-
larly inform the National Endowment for
Democracy of democracy programs that are
planned and supported by funds made avail-
able by this Act and prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs.
(h) PROTECTION OF CIVIL SOCIETY ACTIVISTS
AND JOURNALISTS.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the headings ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, not
less than $15,000,000 shall be made available
to support and protect civil society activists
and journalists who have been threatened,
harassed, or attacked, consistent with the
action plan submitted pursuant to, and on
the same terms and conditions of, section
7032(i) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2018 (division K of Public Law
115–141).
INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
SEC. 7033. (a) INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM OFFICE AND SPECIAL ENVOY TO PRO-
MOTE RELIGIOUS FREEDOM.—
(1) OPERATIONS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Diplomatic Pro-
grams’’ shall be made available for the Office
of International Religious Freedom, Bureau
of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State, and the Special Envoy
to Promote Religious Freedom of Religious
Minorities in the Near East and South Cen-
tral Asia, as authorized in the Near East and
South Central Asia Religious Freedom Act of
2014 (Public Law 113–161), including for sup-
port staff at not less than the amounts speci-
fied for such offices in the table under such
heading in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 4 (in the matter preceding
division A of this consolidated Act).
(2) CURRICULUM.—Funds appropriated
under the heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’
and designated for the Office of Inter-
national Religious Freedom shall be made
available for the development and implemen-
tation of an international religious freedom
curriculum in accordance with section
708(a)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22
U.S.C. 4028(a)(2)).
(b) ASSISTANCE.—
(1) INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM PRO-
GRAMS.—Of the funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Democracy Fund’’
and available for the Human Rights and De-
mocracy Fund, not less than $10,000,000 shall
be made available for international religious
freedom programs: Provided, That the Am-
bassador-at-Large for International Reli-
gious Freedom shall consult with the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on the uses of
such funds.
(2) PROTECTION AND INVESTIGATION PRO-
GRAMS.—Of the funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made
available for programs to protect vulnerable
and persecuted religious minorities: Pro-
vided, That a portion of such funds shall be
made available for programs to investigate
the persecution of such minorities by gov-
ernments and non-state actors and for the
public dissemination of information col-
lected on such persecution, including on the
Department of State website.
(3) HUMANITARIAN PROGRAMS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘International Disaster Assistance’’ and
‘‘Migration and Refugee Assistance’’ shall be
made available for humanitarian assistance
for vulnerable and persecuted religious mi-
norities, including victims of genocide des-
ignated by the Secretary of State and other
groups that have suffered crimes against hu-
manity and ethnic cleansing, to—
(A) facilitate the implementation of an im-
mediate, coordinated, and sustained response
to provide humanitarian assistance;
(B) enhance protection of conflict victims,
including those facing a dire humanitarian
crisis and severe persecution because of their
faith or ethnicity;
(C) improve access to secure locations for
obtaining humanitarian and resettlement
services; and
(D) build resilience and help reestablish
livelihoods for displaced and persecuted per-
sons in their communities of origin.
(4) TRANSITIONAL JUSTICE, RECONCILIATION,
AND REINTEGRATION PROGRAMS.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act that are made
available for the Relief and Recovery Fund,
not less than $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able to support transitional justice, rec-
onciliation, and reintegration programs for
vulnerable and persecuted religious minori-
ties, including in the Middle East and North
Africa regions: Provided, That such funds
shall be matched, to the maximum extent
practicable, from sources other than the
United States Government.
(5) RESPONSIBILITY FOR FUNDS.—Funds
made available by paragraphs (1) and (2)
shall be the responsibility of the Ambas-
sador-at-Large for International Religious
Freedom, in consultation with other rel-
evant United States Government officials.
(c) INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING.—Funds
appropriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Broadcasting Board of Governors, Inter-
national Broadcasting Operations’’ shall be
made available for programs related to inter-
national religious freedom, including report-
ing on the condition of vulnerable and per-
secuted religious groups.
(d) FUNDING CLARIFICATION.—
(1) Funds made available pursuant to sub-
section (b) are in addition to amounts other-
wise made available for such purposes.
(2) Funds appropriated by this Act and
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
for assistance for ethnic and religious mi-
norities in Iraq and Syria.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 7034. (a) VICTIMS OF WAR, DISPLACED
CHILDREN, AND DISPLACED BURMESE.—Funds
appropriated in titles III and VI of this Act
that are made available for victims of war,
displaced children, displaced Burmese, and
to combat trafficking in persons and assist
victims of such trafficking, may be made
available notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law.
(b) FORENSIC ASSISTANCE.—
(1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made
available for forensic anthropology assist-
ance related to the exhumation and identi-
fication of victims of war crimes, crimes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1105
January 23, 2019
against humanity, and genocide, which shall
be administered by the Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State: Provided, That such
funds shall be in addition to funds made
available by this Act and prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs for
assistance for countries.
(2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘International Narcotics
Control and Law Enforcement’’, not less
than $8,000,000 shall be made available for
DNA forensic technology programs to com-
bat human trafficking in Central America
and Mexico.
(c) ATROCITIES PREVENTION.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’, not less than $5,000,000 shall be made
available for programs to prevent atrocities,
including to implement recommendations of
the Atrocities Prevention Board, or any suc-
cessor entity: Provided, That the Under Sec-
retary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and
Human Rights, Department of State, shall be
responsible for providing the strategic policy
direction for, and policy oversight of, funds
made available pursuant to this subsection
to the Bureaus of International Narcotics
and Law Enforcement Affairs and Democ-
racy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department
of State: Provided further, That funds made
available pursuant to this subsection are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes: Provided further, That
such funds shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
(d) WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME.—Funds man-
aged by the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict,
and Humanitarian Assistance, United States
Agency for International Development, from
this or any other Act, may be made available
as a general contribution to the World Food
Programme, notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law.
(e) DIRECTIVES AND AUTHORITIES.—
(1) RESEARCH AND TRAINING.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’ shall be made available to carry out
the Program for Research and Training on
Eastern Europe and the Independent States
of the Former Soviet Union as authorized by
the Soviet-Eastern European Research and
Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.).
(2) GENOCIDE VICTIMS MEMORIAL SITES.—
Funds appropriated by this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs under the headings ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’ may be
made available as contributions to establish
and maintain memorial sites of genocide,
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
(3) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.—Of the
amounts made available by title I of this Act
under the heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’,
up to $500,000 may be made available for
grants pursuant to section 504 of the Foreign
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year
1979 (22 U.S.C. 2656d), including to facilitate
collaboration with indigenous communities,
and up to $1,000,000 may be made available
for grants to carry out the activities of the
Cultural Antiquities Task Force.
(4) INNOVATION.—The USAID Administrator
may use funds appropriated by this Act
under title III to make innovation incentive
awards: Provided, That each individual award
may not exceed $100,000: Provided further,
That no more than 10 such awards may be
made during fiscal year 2019: Provided further,
That for purposes of this paragraph the term
‘‘innovation incentive award’’ means the
provision of funding on a competitive basis
that—
(A) encourages and rewards the develop-
ment of solutions for a particular, well-de-
fined problem related to the alleviation of
poverty; or
(B) helps identify and promote a broad
range of ideas and practices facilitating fur-
ther development of an idea or practice by
third parties.
(5) EXCHANGE VISITOR PROGRAM.—None of
the funds made available by this Act may be
used to modify the Exchange Visitor Pro-
gram administered by the Department of
State to implement the Mutual Educational
and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amend-
ed, (Public Law 87–256; 22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.),
except through the formal rulemaking proc-
ess pursuant to the Administrative Proce-
dure Act and notwithstanding the exceptions
to such rulemaking process in such Act: Pro-
vided, That funds made available for such
purpose shall only be made available after
consultation with, and subject to the regular
notification procedures of, the Committees
on Appropriations, regarding how any pro-
posed modification would affect the public
diplomacy goals of, and the estimated eco-
nomic impact on, the United States.
(6) REPORT.—The report required by sec-
tion 502(d) of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division N of Public
Law 115–31; 22 U.S.C. 254a note) shall be pro-
vided to the Committees on Appropriations.
(7) PRIVATE SECTOR PARTNERSHIPS.—Of the
funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘Development Assistance’’ and
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ that are made
available for private sector partnerships, up
to $50,000,000 may remain available until
September 30, 2021: Provided, That funds
made available pursuant to this paragraph
may only be made available following prior
consultation with the appropriate congres-
sional committees, and the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations.
(f) PARTNER VETTING.—Prior to initiating a
partner vetting program, or making signifi-
cant changes to the scope of an existing
partner vetting program, the Secretary of
State and USAID Administrator, as appro-
priate, shall consult with the Committees on
Appropriations.
(g) CONTINGENCIES.—During fiscal year
2019, the President may use up to $125,000,000
under the authority of section 451 of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding
any other provision of law.
(h) INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTIONS.—The
Secretary of State should withhold funds ap-
propriated under title III of this Act for as-
sistance for the central government of any
country that is not taking appropriate steps
to comply with the Convention on the Civil
Aspects of International Child Abductions,
done at the Hague on October 25, 1980: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations within 15
days of withholding funds under this sub-
section.
(i) CULTURAL PRESERVATION PROJECT DE-
TERMINATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated in titles I and III of this Act may be
used for the preservation of religious sites
unless the Secretary of State or the USAID
Administrator, as appropriate, determines
and reports to the Committees on Appropria-
tions that such sites are historically, artis-
tically, or culturally significant, that the
purpose of the project is neither to advance
nor to inhibit the free exercise of religion,
and that the project is in the national inter-
est of the United States.
(j) TRANSFER OF FUNDS FOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY PROTECTION.—The Secretary of State
may transfer to, and merge with, funds
under the heading ‘‘Protection of Foreign
Missions and Officials’’ unobligated balances
of expired funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ for fiscal
year 2019, except for funds designated for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, at no
later than the end of the fifth fiscal year
after the last fiscal year for which such
funds are available for the purposes for
which appropriated: Provided, That not more
than $50,000,000 may be transferred.
(k) AUTHORITY TO COUNTER EXTREMISM.—
Funds made available by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ to
counter extremism may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
restricting assistance to foreign countries,
except sections 502B and 620A of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That the use
of the authority of this subsection shall be
subject to prior consultation with the appro-
priate congressional committees, and the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(l) PROTECTIONS AND REMEDIES FOR EM-
PLOYEES OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND INTER-
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.—Section 7034(k) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113–
235) shall continue in effect during fiscal
year 2019.
(m) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES.—
(1) PASSPORT FEES.—Section 1(b)(2) of the
Passport Act of June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C.
214(b)(2)) shall be applied by substituting
‘‘September 30, 2019’’ for ‘‘September 30,
2010’’.
(2) INCENTIVES FOR CRITICAL POSTS.—The
authority contained in section 1115(d) of the
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Pub-
lic Law 111–32) shall remain in effect through
September 30, 2019.
(3) USAID CIVIL SERVICE ANNUITANT WAIV-
ER.—Section 625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2385(j)(1)) shall be
applied by substituting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’
for ‘‘October 1, 2010’’ in subparagraph (B).
(4) OVERSEAS PAY COMPARABILITY AND LIMI-
TATION.—
(A) Subject to the limitation described in
subparagraph (B), the authority provided by
section 1113 of the Supplemental Appropria-
tions Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–32) shall re-
main in effect through September 30, 2019.
(B) The authority described in subpara-
graph (A) may not be used to pay an eligible
member of the Foreign Service (as defined in
section 1113(b) of the Supplemental Appro-
priations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–32)) a lo-
cality-based comparability payment (stated
as a percentage) that exceeds two-thirds of
the amount of the locality-based com-
parability payment (stated as a percentage)
that would be payable to such member under
section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, if
such member’s official duty station were in
the District of Columbia.
(5) CATEGORICAL ELIGIBILITY.—The Foreign
Operations, Export Financing, and Related
Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public
Law 101–167) is amended—
(A) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)—
(i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ‘‘and
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2018, and 2019’’; and
(ii) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2018’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2019’’;
and
(B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in
subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019’’.
(6) INSPECTOR GENERAL ANNUITANT WAIV-
ER.—The authorities provided in section
1015(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111–212) shall remain in
effect through September 30, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1106 January 23, 2019
(7) ACCOUNTABILITY REVIEW BOARDS.—The
authority provided by section 301(a)(3) of the
Omnibus Diplomatic Security and
Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C.
4831(a)(3)) shall remain in effect for facilities
in Afghanistan through September 30, 2019,
except that the notification and reporting
requirements contained in such section shall
include the Committees on Appropriations.
(8) SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR AF-
GHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION COMPETITIVE STA-
TUS.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, any employee of the Special Inspec-
tor General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
(SIGAR) who completes at least 12 months of
continuous service after the date of enact-
ment of this Act or who is employed on the
date on which SIGAR terminates, whichever
occurs first, shall acquire competitive status
for appointment to any position in the com-
petitive service for which the employee pos-
sesses the required qualifications.
(9) TRANSFER OF BALANCES.—Section 7081(h)
of the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115–
31) shall continue in effect during fiscal year
2019.
(10) DEPARTMENT OF STATE INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL WAIVER AUTHORITY.—The Inspector
General of the Department of State may
waive the provisions of subsections (a)
through (d) of section 824 of the Foreign
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064) on a case-
by-case basis for an annuitant reemployed by
the Inspector General on a temporary basis,
subject to the same constraints and in the
same manner by which the Secretary of
State may exercise such waiver authority
pursuant to subsection (g) of such section.
(11) EXTENSION OF LOAN GUARANTEES TO
ISRAEL.—Chapter 5 of title I of the Emer-
gency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2003 (Public Law 108–11; 117 Stat. 576) is
amended under the heading ‘‘Loan Guaran-
tees to Israel’’—
(A) in the matter preceding the first pro-
viso, by striking ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30, 2023’’; and
(B) in the second proviso, by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2023’’.
(n) MONITORING AND EVALUATION.—Funds
appropriated by this Act that are available
for monitoring and evaluation of assistance
under the headings ‘‘Development Assist-
ance’’, ‘‘International Disaster Assistance’’
and ‘‘Migration and Refugee Assistance’’
shall, as appropriate, be made available for
the regular collection of feedback obtained
directly from beneficiaries on the quality
and relevance of such assistance: Provided,
That the Department of State and USAID
shall establish procedures for implementing
partners that receive funds under such head-
ings for regularly collecting and responding
to such feedback, informing the Department
of State and USAID of such procedures, and
reporting to the Department of State and
USAID on actions taken in response to the
feedback received: Provided further, That the
Department of State and USAID shall regu-
larly conduct oversight to ensure that such
feedback is regularly collected and used by
implementing partners to maximize the
cost-effectiveness and utility of such assist-
ance.
(o) HIV/AIDS WORKING CAPITAL FUND.—
Funds available in the HIV/AIDS Working
Capital Fund established pursuant to section
525(b)(1) of the Foreign Operations, Export
Financing, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2005 (Public Law 108–447) may be
made available for pharmaceuticals and
other products for child survival, malaria,
and tuberculosis to the same extent as HIV/
AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products,
subject to the terms and conditions in such
section: Provided, That the authority in sec-
tion 525(b)(5) of the Foreign Operations, Ex-
port Financing, and Related Programs Ap-
propriation Act, 2005 (Public Law 108–447)
shall be exercised by the Assistant Adminis-
trator for Global Health, USAID, with re-
spect to funds deposited for such non-HIV/
AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products,
and shall be subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of State shall include in the congres-
sional budget justification an accounting of
budgetary resources, disbursements, bal-
ances, and reimbursements related to such
fund.
(p) LOANS, CONSULTATION, AND NOTIFICA-
TION.—
(1) LOAN GUARANTEES.—Funds appropriated
under the headings ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’ and ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’ by this Act and prior Acts
making appropriations for the Department
of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams may be made available for the costs,
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, of loan guarantees for
Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia, and Ukraine, which
are authorized to be provided: Provided, That
amounts made available under this para-
graph for the costs of such guarantees shall
not be considered assistance for the purposes
of provisions of law limiting assistance to a
country.
(2) DESIGNATION REQUIREMENT.—Funds
made available pursuant to paragraph (1)
from prior Acts making appropriations for
the Department of State, foreign operations,
and related programs that were previously
designated by the Congress for Overseas Con-
tingency Operations/Global War on Ter-
rorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 are designated by the
Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act.
(3) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available pursuant to the au-
thorities of this subsection shall be subject
to prior consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees, and subject to the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(q) LOCAL WORKS.—
(1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘Development Assist-
ance’’, ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made
available for Local Works pursuant to sec-
tion 7080 of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law
113–235), which may remain available until
September 30, 2023.
(2) For the purposes of section 7080 of the
Department of State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs Appropriations Act,
2015 (division J of Public Law 113–235), ‘‘eligi-
ble entities’’ shall be defined as small local,
international, and United States-based non-
governmental organizations, educational in-
stitutions, and other small entities that
have received less than a total of $5,000,000
from USAID over the previous 5 fiscal years:
Provided, That departments or centers of
such educational institutions may be consid-
ered individually in determining such eligi-
bility.
(r) DEFINITIONS.—
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—Unless otherwise defined in this Act,
for purposes of this Act the term ‘‘appro-
priate congressional committees’’ means the
Committees on Appropriations and Foreign
Relations of the Senate and the Committees
on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
(2) FUNDS APPROPRIATED BY THIS ACT AND
PRIOR ACTS.—Unless otherwise defined in this
Act, for purposes of this Act the term ‘‘funds
appropriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams’’ means funds that remain available
for obligation, and have not expired.
(3) INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITU-
TIONS.—In this Act ‘‘international financial
institutions’’ means the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, the
International Development Association, the
International Finance Corporation, the
Inter-American Development Bank, the
International Monetary Fund, the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development,
the Asian Development Fund, the Inter-
American Investment Corporation, the
North American Development Bank, the Eu-
ropean Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-
opment, the African Development Bank, the
African Development Fund, and the Multi-
lateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
(4) SOUTHERN KORDOFAN REFERENCE.—Any
reference to Southern Kordofan in this or
any other Act making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations, and
related programs shall be deemed to include
portions of Western Kordofan that were pre-
viously part of Southern Kordofan prior to
the 2013 division of Southern Kordofan.
(5) USAID.—In this Act, the term ‘‘USAID’’
means the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
(6) SPEND PLAN.—In this Act, the term
‘‘spend plan’’ means a plan for the uses of
funds appropriated for a particular entity,
country, program, purpose, or account and
which shall include, at a minimum, a de-
scription of—
(A) realistic and sustainable goals, criteria
for measuring progress, and a timeline for
achieving such goals;
(B) amounts and sources of funds by ac-
count;
(C) how such funds will complement other
ongoing or planned programs; and
(D) implementing partners, to the max-
imum extent practicable.
(7) UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR GLOBAL
MEDIA.—References to the ‘‘Broadcasting
Board of Governors, International Broad-
casting Operations’’ account in any provi-
sion of law shall be construed to include the
‘‘United States Agency for Global Media’’ ac-
count in Acts making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations, and
related programs: Provided, That references
to the ‘‘Broadcasting Board of Governors’’ or
‘‘BBG’’ in this Act and prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
shall be construed to include the ‘‘United
States Agency for Global Media’’ or
‘‘USAGM’’.
ARAB LEAGUE BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL
SEC. 7035. It is the sense of the Congress
that—
(1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and
the secondary boycott of American firms
that have commercial ties with Israel, is an
impediment to peace in the region and to
United States investment and trade in the
Middle East and North Africa;
(2) the Arab League boycott, which was re-
grettably reinstated in 1997, should be imme-
diately and publicly terminated, and the
Central Office for the Boycott of Israel im-
mediately disbanded;
(3) all Arab League states should normalize
relations with their neighbor Israel;
(4) the President and the Secretary of
State should continue to vigorously oppose
the Arab League boycott of Israel and find
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1107
January 23, 2019
concrete steps to demonstrate that opposi-
tion by, for example, taking into consider-
ation the participation of any recipient
country in the boycott when determining to
sell weapons to said country; and
(5) the President should report to Congress
annually on specific steps being taken by the
United States to encourage Arab League
states to normalize their relations with
Israel to bring about the termination of the
Arab League boycott of Israel, including
those to encourage allies and trading part-
ners of the United States to enact laws pro-
hibiting businesses from complying with the
boycott and penalizing businesses that do
comply.
PALESTINIAN STATEHOOD
SEC. 7036. (a) LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act may be provided to
support a Palestinian state unless the Sec-
retary of State determines and certifies to
the appropriate congressional committees
that—
(1) the governing entity of a new Pales-
tinian state—
(A) has demonstrated a firm commitment
to peaceful co-existence with the State of
Israel; and
(B) is taking appropriate measures to
counter terrorism and terrorist financing in
the West Bank and Gaza, including the dis-
mantling of terrorist infrastructures, and is
cooperating with appropriate Israeli and
other appropriate security organizations;
and
(2) the Palestinian Authority (or the gov-
erning entity of a new Palestinian state) is
working with other countries in the region
to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a
just, lasting, and comprehensive peace in the
Middle East that will enable Israel and an
independent Palestinian state to exist within
the context of full and normal relationships,
which should include—
(A) termination of all claims or states of
belligerency;
(B) respect for and acknowledgment of the
sovereignty, territorial integrity, and polit-
ical independence of every state in the area
through measures including the establish-
ment of demilitarized zones;
(C) their right to live in peace within se-
cure and recognized boundaries free from
threats or acts of force;
(D) freedom of navigation through inter-
national waterways in the area; and
(E) a framework for achieving a just settle-
ment of the refugee problem.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the governing entity should
enact a constitution assuring the rule of law,
an independent judiciary, and respect for
human rights for its citizens, and should
enact other laws and regulations assuring
transparent and accountable governance.
(c) WAIVER.—The President may waive sub-
section (a) if the President determines that
it is important to the national security in-
terest of the United States to do so.
(d) EXEMPTION.—The restriction in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to assistance in-
tended to help reform the Palestinian Au-
thority and affiliated institutions, or the
governing entity, in order to help meet the
requirements of subsection (a), consistent
with the provisions of section 7040 of this Act
(‘‘Limitation on Assistance for the Pales-
tinian Authority’’).
RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING THE PALESTINIAN
AUTHORITY
SEC. 7037. None of the funds appropriated
under titles II through VI of this Act may be
obligated or expended to create in any part
of Jerusalem a new office of any department
or agency of the United States Government
for the purpose of conducting official United
States Government business with the Pales-
tinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or
any successor Palestinian governing entity
provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of
Principles: Provided, That this restriction
shall not apply to the acquisition of addi-
tional space for the existing Consulate Gen-
eral in Jerusalem: Provided further, That
meetings between officers and employees of
the United States and officials of the Pales-
tinian Authority, or any successor Pales-
tinian governing entity provided for in the
Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles, for the
purpose of conducting official United States
Government business with such authority
should continue to take place in locations
other than Jerusalem: Provided further, That
as has been true in the past, officers and em-
ployees of the United States Government
may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other
subjects with Palestinians (including those
who now occupy positions in the Palestinian
Authority), have social contacts, and have
incidental discussions.
PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO THE
PALESTINIAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION
SEC. 7038. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act may
be used to provide equipment, technical sup-
port, consulting services, or any other form
of assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting
Corporation.
ASSISTANCE FOR THE WEST BANK AND GAZA
SEC. 7039. (a) OVERSIGHT.—For fiscal year
2019, 30 days prior to the initial obligation of
funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza
Program, the Secretary of State shall certify
to the Committees on Appropriations that
procedures have been established to assure
the Comptroller General of the United States
will have access to appropriate United States
financial information in order to review the
uses of United States assistance for the Pro-
gram funded under the heading ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’ for the West Bank and Gaza.
(b) VETTING.—Prior to the obligation of
funds appropriated by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ for as-
sistance for the West Bank and Gaza, the
Secretary of State shall take all appropriate
steps to ensure that such assistance is not
provided to or through any individual, pri-
vate or government entity, or educational
institution that the Secretary knows or has
reason to believe advocates, plans, sponsors,
engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist ac-
tivity nor, with respect to private entities or
educational institutions, those that have as
a principal officer of the entity’s governing
board or governing board of trustees any in-
dividual that has been determined to be in-
volved in, or advocating terrorist activity or
determined to be a member of a designated
foreign terrorist organization: Provided, That
the Secretary of State shall, as appropriate,
establish procedures specifying the steps to
be taken in carrying out this subsection and
shall terminate assistance to any individual,
entity, or educational institution which the
Secretary has determined to be involved in
or advocating terrorist activity.
(c) PROHIBITION.—
(1) RECOGNITION OF ACTS OF TERRORISM.—
None of the funds appropriated under titles
III through VI of this Act for assistance
under the West Bank and Gaza Program may
be made available for—
(A) the purpose of recognizing or otherwise
honoring individuals who commit, or have
committed acts of terrorism; and
(B) any educational institution located in
the West Bank or Gaza that is named after
an individual who the Secretary of State de-
termines has committed an act of terrorism.
(2) SECURITY ASSISTANCE AND REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENT.—Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, none of the funds made avail-
able by this or prior appropriations Acts, in-
cluding funds made available by transfer,
may be made available for obligation for se-
curity assistance for the West Bank and
Gaza until the Secretary of State reports to
the Committees on Appropriations on the
benchmarks that have been established for
security assistance for the West Bank and
Gaza and reports on the extent of Pales-
tinian compliance with such benchmarks.
(d) OVERSIGHT BY THE UNITED STATES
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.—
(1) The Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development shall
ensure that Federal or non-Federal audits of
all contractors and grantees, and significant
subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the
West Bank and Gaza Program, are conducted
at least on an annual basis to ensure, among
other things, compliance with this section.
(2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act,
up to $1,000,000 may be used by the Office of
Inspector General of the United States Agen-
cy for International Development for audits,
investigations, and other activities in fur-
therance of the requirements of this sub-
section: Provided, That such funds are in ad-
dition to funds otherwise available for such
purposes.
(e) COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED
STATES AUDIT.—Subsequent to the certifi-
cation specified in subsection (a), the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
conduct an audit and an investigation of the
treatment, handling, and uses of all funds for
the bilateral West Bank and Gaza Program,
including all funds provided as cash transfer
assistance, in fiscal year 2019 under the head-
ing ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and such
audit shall address—
(1) the extent to which such Program com-
plies with the requirements of subsections
(b) and (c); and
(2) an examination of all programs,
projects, and activities carried out under
such Program, including both obligations
and expenditures.
(f) NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES.—Funds made
available in this Act for West Bank and Gaza
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE FOR THE
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
SEC. 7040. (a) PROHIBITION OF FUNDS.—None
of the funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may
be obligated or expended with respect to pro-
viding funds to the Palestinian Authority.
(b) WAIVER.—The prohibition included in
subsection (a) shall not apply if the Presi-
dent certifies in writing to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives, the President
pro tempore of the Senate, and the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that waiving such
prohibition is important to the national se-
curity interest of the United States.
(c) PERIOD OF APPLICATION OF WAIVER.—
Any waiver pursuant to subsection (b) shall
be effective for no more than a period of 6
months at a time and shall not apply beyond
12 months after the enactment of this Act.
(d) REPORT.—Whenever the waiver author-
ity pursuant to subsection (b) is exercised,
the President shall submit a report to the
Committees on Appropriations detailing the
justification for the waiver, the purposes for
which the funds will be spent, and the ac-
counting procedures in place to ensure that
the funds are properly disbursed: Provided,
That the report shall also detail the steps
the Palestinian Authority has taken to ar-
rest terrorists, confiscate weapons and dis-
mantle the terrorist infrastructure.
(e) CERTIFICATION.—If the President exer-
cises the waiver authority under subsection
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1108 January 23, 2019
(b), the Secretary of State must certify and
report to the Committees on Appropriations
prior to the obligation of funds that the Pal-
estinian Authority has established a single
treasury account for all Palestinian Author-
ity financing and all financing mechanisms
flow through this account, no parallel fi-
nancing mechanisms exist outside of the Pal-
estinian Authority treasury account, and
there is a single comprehensive civil service
roster and payroll, and the Palestinian Au-
thority is acting to counter incitement of vi-
olence against Israelis and is supporting ac-
tivities aimed at promoting peace, coexist-
ence, and security cooperation with Israel.
(f) PROHIBITION TO HAMAS AND THE PAL-
ESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION.—
(1) None of the funds appropriated in titles
III through VI of this Act may be obligated
for salaries of personnel of the Palestinian
Authority located in Gaza or may be obli-
gated or expended for assistance to Hamas or
any entity effectively controlled by Hamas,
any power-sharing government of which
Hamas is a member, or that results from an
agreement with Hamas and over which
Hamas exercises undue influence.
(2) Notwithstanding the limitation of para-
graph (1), assistance may be provided to a
power-sharing government only if the Presi-
dent certifies and reports to the Committees
on Appropriations that such government, in-
cluding all of its ministers or such equiva-
lent, has publicly accepted and is complying
with the principles contained in section
620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, as amended.
(3) The President may exercise the author-
ity in section 620K(e) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961, as added by the Palestinian
Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–
446) with respect to this subsection.
(4) Whenever the certification pursuant to
paragraph (2) is exercised, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations within 120 days of the
certification and every quarter thereafter on
whether such government, including all of
its ministers or such equivalent are con-
tinuing to comply with the principles con-
tained in section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended:
Provided, That the report shall also detail
the amount, purposes and delivery mecha-
nisms for any assistance provided pursuant
to the abovementioned certification and a
full accounting of any direct support of such
government.
(5) None of the funds appropriated under ti-
tles III through VI of this Act may be obli-
gated for assistance for the Palestine Libera-
tion Organization.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
SEC. 7041. (a) EGYPT.—
(1) CERTIFICATION AND REPORT.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act that are available for
assistance for Egypt may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
restricting assistance for Egypt, except for
this subsection and section 620M of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, and may only be
made available for assistance for the Govern-
ment of Egypt if the Secretary of State cer-
tifies and reports to the Committees on Ap-
propriations that such government is—
(A) sustaining the strategic relationship
with the United States; and
(B) meeting its obligations under the 1979
Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty.
(2) ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND.—
(A) FUNDING.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’, up to $112,500,000 may be made
available for assistance for Egypt, of which
not less than $35,000,000 should be made
available for higher education programs in-
cluding not less than $10,000,000 for scholar-
ships for Egyptian students with high finan-
cial need to attend not-for-profit institutions
of higher education: Provided, That such
funds shall be made available for democracy
programs, and for development programs in
the Sinai: Provided further, That such funds
may not be made available for cash transfer
assistance or budget support unless the Sec-
retary of State certifies and reports to the
appropriate congressional committees that
the Government of Egypt is taking con-
sistent and effective steps to stabilize the
economy and implement market-based eco-
nomic reforms.
(B) WITHHOLDING.—The Secretary of State
shall withhold from obligation funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ for assistance for
Egypt, an amount of such funds that the Sec-
retary determines to be equivalent to that
expended by the United States Government
for bail, and by nongovernmental organiza-
tions for legal and court fees, associated
with democracy-related trials in Egypt until
the Secretary certifies and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that the Gov-
ernment of Egypt has dismissed the convic-
tions issued by the Cairo Criminal Court on
June 4, 2013, in ‘‘Public Prosecution Case No.
1110 for the Year 2012’’, and has not subjected
the defendants to further prosecution or if
convicted they have been granted full par-
dons.
(C) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act and prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’ may be made available for a contribu-
tion, voluntary or otherwise, to the ‘‘Civil
Associations and Foundations Support
Fund’’, or any similar fund, established pur-
suant to Law 70 on Associations and Other
Foundations Working in the Field of Civil
Work published in the Official Gazette of
Egypt on May 29, 2017.
(3) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—
(A) CERTIFICATION.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘For-
eign Military Financing Program’’, up to
$1,300,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, may be made available for
assistance for Egypt: Provided, That such
funds may be transferred to an interest bear-
ing account in the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, following consultation with the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That $300,000,000 of such funds shall be
withheld from obligation until the Secretary
of State certifies and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that the Government
of Egypt is taking sustained and effective
steps to—
(i) advance democracy and human rights in
Egypt, including to govern democratically
and protect religious minorities and the
rights of women, which are in addition to
steps taken during the previous calendar
year for such purposes;
(ii) implement reforms that protect free-
doms of expression, association, and peaceful
assembly, including the ability of civil soci-
ety organizations, human rights defenders,
and the media to function without inter-
ference;
(iii) release political prisoners and provide
detainees with due process of law;
(iv) hold Egyptian security forces account-
able, including officers credibly alleged to
have violated human rights;
(v) investigate and prosecute cases of
extrajudicial killings and forced disappear-
ances; and
(vi) provide regular access for United
States officials to monitor such assistance in
areas where the assistance is used:
Provided further, That the certification re-
quirement of this paragraph shall not apply
to funds appropriated by this Act under such
heading for counterterrorism, border secu-
rity, and nonproliferation programs for
Egypt.
(B) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the certification requirement in sub-
paragraph (A) if the Secretary determines
and reports to the Committees on Appropria-
tions that to do so is important to the na-
tional security interest of the United States,
and submits a report to such Committees
containing a detailed justification for the
use of such waiver and the reasons why any
of the requirements of subparagraph (A) can-
not be met, and including an assessment of
the compliance of the Government of Egypt
with United Nations Security Council Reso-
lution 2270 and other such resolutions re-
garding North Korea: Provided, That the re-
port required by this paragraph shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may be ac-
companied by a classified annex.
(4) OVERSIGHT REQUIREMENT.—The Sec-
retary of State shall take all practicable
steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place
for monitoring, oversight, and control of
funds made available by this subsection for
assistance for Egypt.
(5) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT.—Not later
than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on any plan
to restructure military assistance for Egypt.
(b) IRAN.—
(1) FUNDING.—Funds appropriated by this
Act under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Pro-
grams’’, ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, and
‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining
and Related Programs’’ shall be used by the
Secretary of State—
(A) to support the United States policy to
prevent Iran from achieving the capability
to produce or otherwise obtain a nuclear
weapon;
(B) to support an expeditious response to
any violation of United Nations Security
Council Resolutions or to efforts that ad-
vance Iran’s nuclear program;
(C) to support the implementation and en-
forcement of sanctions against Iran for sup-
port of nuclear weapons development, ter-
rorism, human rights abuses, and ballistic
missile and weapons proliferation; and
(D) for democracy programs for Iran, to be
administered by the Assistant Secretary for
Near Eastern Affairs, Department of State,
in consultation with the Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State.
(2) CONTINUATION OF PROHIBITION.—The
terms and conditions of section 7041(c)(2) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112–
74) shall continue in effect during fiscal year
2019.
(3) REPORTS.—
(A) SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT.—The Secretary
of State shall submit to the Committees on
Appropriations the semi-annual report re-
quired by section 135 of the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2160e(d)(4)), as added by
section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Re-
view Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–17).
(B) SANCTIONS REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
a report on the status of the implementation
and enforcement of bilateral United States
and multilateral sanctions against Iran and
actions taken by the United States and the
international community to enforce such
sanctions against Iran: Provided, That the re-
port shall also include any entities involved
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1109
January 23, 2019
in providing significant support for the de-
velopment of a ballistic missile by the Gov-
ernment of Iran after October 1, 2015, includ-
ing shipping and financing, and note whether
such entities are currently under United
States sanctions: Provided further, That such
report shall be submitted in an unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex if
necessary.
(c) IRAQ.—
(1) PURPOSES.—Funds appropriated under
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made
available for assistance for Iraq for—
(A) bilateral economic assistance and
international security assistance, including
for the Marla Ruzicka Iraqi War Victims
Fund;
(B) stabilization assistance at not less than
the amounts specified for such purpose in the
table under this subsection in the explana-
tory statement described in section 4 (in the
matter preceding division A of this consoli-
dated Act);
(C) humanitarian assistance, including in
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq; and
(D) programs to protect and assist reli-
gious and ethnic minority populations in
Iraq.
(2) BASING RIGHTS AGREEMENT.—None of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able by this Act may be used by the Govern-
ment of the United States to enter into a
permanent basing rights agreement between
the United States and Iraq.
(d) JORDAN.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under titles III and IV, not less than
$1,525,000,000 shall be made available for as-
sistance for Jordan, of which: not less than
$1,082,400,000 shall be made available under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, of
which not less than $745,100,000 shall be made
available for budget support for the Govern-
ment of Jordan; and not less than $425,000,000
shall be made available under the heading
‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’.
(e) LEBANON.—
(1) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act may be made available
for the Lebanese Internal Security Forces
(ISF) or the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) if
the ISF or the LAF is controlled by a foreign
terrorist organization, as designated pursu-
ant to section 219 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
(2) CONSULTATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the headings ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’
and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’
that are available for assistance for Lebanon
may be made available for programs and
equipment for the ISF and the LAF to ad-
dress security and stability requirements in
areas affected by the conflict in Syria, fol-
lowing consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees.
(3) ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ that are available for
assistance for Lebanon may be made avail-
able notwithstanding section 1224 of the For-
eign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal
Year 2003 (Public Law 107–228; 22 U.S.C. 2346
note).
(4) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—In addition to the activities de-
scribed in paragraph (2), funds appropriated
by this Act under the heading ‘‘Foreign Mili-
tary Financing Program’’ for assistance for
Lebanon may be made available only to pro-
fessionalize the LAF and to strengthen bor-
der security and combat terrorism, including
training and equipping the LAF to secure
Lebanon’s borders, interdicting arms ship-
ments, preventing the use of Lebanon as a
safe haven for terrorist groups, and to imple-
ment United Nations Security Council Reso-
lution 1701: Provided, That funds may not be
obligated for assistance for the LAF until
the Secretary of State submits to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations a spend plan, in-
cluding actions to be taken to ensure equip-
ment provided to the LAF is only used for
the intended purposes, except such plan may
not be considered as meeting the notifica-
tion requirements under section 7015 of this
Act or under section 634A of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, and shall be submitted
not later than September 1, 2019: Provided
further, That any notification submitted pur-
suant to such sections shall include any
funds specifically intended for lethal mili-
tary equipment.
(f) LIBYA.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated under
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made
available for stabilization assistance for
Libya, including border security: Provided,
That the limitation on the uses of funds for
certain infrastructure projects in section
7041(f)(2) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law
113–76) shall apply to such funds.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—Prior to the initial ob-
ligation of funds made available by this Act
for assistance for Libya, the Secretary of
State shall certify and report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations that all prac-
ticable steps have been taken to ensure that
mechanisms are in place for monitoring,
oversight, and control of such funds.
(3) COOPERATION ON THE SEPTEMBER 2012 AT-
TACK ON UNITED STATES PERSONNEL AND FA-
CILITIES.—None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be made available for assist-
ance for the central Government of Libya
unless the Secretary of State certifies and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such government is cooperating with
United States Government efforts to inves-
tigate and bring to justice those responsible
for the attack on United States personnel
and facilities in Benghazi, Libya in Sep-
tember 2012: Provided, That the limitation in
this paragraph shall not apply to funds made
available for the purpose of protecting
United States Government personnel or fa-
cilities.
(g) MOROCCO.—
(1) AVAILABILITY AND CONSULTATION RE-
QUIREMENT.—Funds appropriated under title
III of this Act shall be made available for as-
sistance for the Western Sahara: Provided,
That not later than 90 days after enactment
of this Act and prior to the obligation of
such funds, the Secretary of State, in con-
sultation with the USAID Administrator,
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations on the proposed uses of such funds.
(2) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ that are available for assist-
ance for Morocco may only be used for the
purposes requested in the Congressional
Budget Justification, Foreign Operations,
Fiscal Year 2017.
(h) REFUGEE ASSISTANCE IN NORTH AFRI-
CA.—Not later than 45 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State, after con-
sultation with the United Nations High Com-
missioner for Refugees and the Executive Di-
rector of the World Food Programme, shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations describing steps taken to strength-
en monitoring of the delivery of humani-
tarian assistance provided for refugees in
North Africa, including any steps taken to
ensure that all vulnerable refugees are re-
ceiving such assistance.
(i) SYRIA.—
(1) NON-LETHAL ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’,
and ‘‘Peacekeeping Operations’’, not less
than $40,000,000 shall be made available, not-
withstanding any other provision of law, for
non-lethal stabilization assistance for Syria,
of which not less than $7,000,000 shall be
made available for emergency medical and
rescue response and chemical weapons use
investigations.
(2) SYRIAN ORGANIZATIONS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act that are made available
for assistance for Syria shall be made avail-
able, on an open and competitive basis, to
continue to strengthen the capability of Syr-
ian civil society organizations to address the
immediate and long-term needs of the Syr-
ian people in Syria in a manner that sup-
ports the sustainability of such organiza-
tions in implementing Syrian-led humani-
tarian and development programs: Provided,
That funds made available by this paragraph
shall be administered by the Bureau for De-
mocracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Depart-
ment of State.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—Funds made available
pursuant to paragraph (1) of this sub-
section—
(A) may not be made available for a
project or activity that supports or other-
wise legitimizes the Government of Iran, for-
eign terrorist organizations (as designated
pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189)), or a
proxy of Iran in Syria; and
(B) should not be used in areas of Syria
controlled by a government led by Bashar al-
Assad or associated forces.
(4) MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.—Prior to
the obligation of funds appropriated by this
Act and made available for assistance for
Syria, the Secretary of State shall take all
practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms
are in place for monitoring, oversight, and
control of such assistance inside Syria.
(5) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available pursuant to this sub-
section may only be made available fol-
lowing consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees, and shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
(j) TUNISIA.—Of the funds appropriated
under titles III and IV of this Act, not less
than $191,400,000 shall be made available for
assistance for Tunisia.
(k) WEST BANK AND GAZA.—
(1) REPORT ON ASSISTANCE.—Prior to the
initial obligation of funds made available by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’ for assistance for the West Bank
and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report
to the Committees on Appropriations that
the purpose of such assistance is to—
(A) advance Middle East peace;
(B) improve security in the region;
(C) continue support for transparent and
accountable government institutions;
(D) promote a private sector economy; or
(E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
(2) LIMITATIONS.—
(A)(i) None of the funds appropriated under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ in
this Act may be made available for assist-
ance for the Palestinian Authority, if after
the date of enactment of this Act—
(I) the Palestinians obtain the same stand-
ing as member states or full membership as
a state in the United Nations or any special-
ized agency thereof outside an agreement ne-
gotiated between Israel and the Palestinians;
or
(II) the Palestinians initiate an Inter-
national Criminal Court (ICC) judicially au-
thorized investigation, or actively support
such an investigation, that subjects Israeli
nationals to an investigation for alleged
crimes against Palestinians.
(ii) The Secretary of State may waive the
restriction in clause (i) of this subparagraph
resulting from the application of subclause
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1110 January 23, 2019
(I) of such clause if the Secretary certifies to
the Committees on Appropriations that to do
so is in the national security interest of the
United States, and submits a report to such
Committees detailing how the waiver and
the continuation of assistance would assist
in furthering Middle East peace.
(B)(i) The President may waive the provi-
sions of section 1003 of the Foreign Relations
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989
(Public Law 100–204) if the President deter-
mines and certifies in writing to the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, the Presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate, and the ap-
propriate congressional committees that the
Palestinians have not, after the date of en-
actment of this Act—
(I) obtained in the United Nations or any
specialized agency thereof the same standing
as member states or full membership as a
state outside an agreement negotiated be-
tween Israel and the Palestinians; and
(II) initiated or actively supported an ICC
investigation against Israeli nationals for al-
leged crimes against Palestinians.
(ii) Not less than 90 days after the Presi-
dent is unable to make the certification pur-
suant to clause (i) of this subparagraph, the
President may waive section 1003 of Public
Law 100–204 if the President determines and
certifies in writing to the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, the President pro
tempore of the Senate, and the Committees
on Appropriations that the Palestinians have
entered into direct and meaningful negotia-
tions with Israel: Provided, That any waiver
of the provisions of section 1003 of Public
Law 100–204 under clause (i) of this subpara-
graph or under previous provisions of law
must expire before the waiver under the pre-
ceding sentence may be exercised.
(iii) Any waiver pursuant to this subpara-
graph shall be effective for no more than a
period of 6 months at a time and shall not
apply beyond 12 months after the enactment
of this Act.
(3) REDUCTION.—The Secretary of State
shall reduce the amount of assistance made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ for the Pales-
tinian Authority by an amount the Sec-
retary determines is equivalent to the
amount expended by the Palestinian Author-
ity, the Palestine Liberation Organization,
and any successor or affiliated organizations
with such entities as payments for acts of
terrorism by individuals who are imprisoned
after being fairly tried and convicted for acts
of terrorism and by individuals who died
committing acts of terrorism during the pre-
vious calendar year: Provided, That the Sec-
retary shall report to the Committees on Ap-
propriations on the amount reduced for fis-
cal year 2019 prior to the obligation of funds
for the Palestinian Authority.
(4) PRIVATE SECTOR PARTNERSHIP PRO-
GRAMS.—Funds appropriated by this Act and
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs may be made available for
private sector partnership programs for the
West Bank and Gaza if such funds are au-
thorized: Provided, That funds made avail-
able pursuant to this paragraph shall be sub-
ject to prior consultation with the appro-
priate congressional committees, and the
regular notification procedures of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(5) SECURITY REPORT.—The reporting re-
quirements in section 1404 of the Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law
110–252) shall apply to funds made available
by this Act, including a description of modi-
fications, if any, to the security strategy of
the Palestinian Authority.
(6) INCITEMENT REPORT.—Not later than 90
days after enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of State shall submit a report to the
appropriate congressional committees de-
tailing steps taken by the Palestinian Au-
thority to counter incitement of violence
against Israelis and to promote peace and co-
existence with Israel.
(l) YEMEN.—Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’ shall be made available for stabiliza-
tion assistance for Yemen.
AFRICA
SEC. 7042. (a) AFRICAN GREAT LAKES REGION
ASSISTANCE RESTRICTION.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Inter-
national Military Education and Training’’
for the central government of a country in
the African Great Lakes region may be made
available only for Expanded International
Military Education and Training and profes-
sional military education until the Sec-
retary of State determines and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that such
government is not facilitating or otherwise
participating in destabilizing activities in a
neighboring country, including aiding and
abetting armed groups.
(b) CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.—Funds
made available by this Act for assistance for
the Central African Republic shall be made
available for reconciliation and
peacebuilding programs, including activities
to promote inter-faith dialogue at the na-
tional and local levels, and for programs to
prevent crimes against humanity.
(c) COUNTER LORD’S RESISTANCE ARMY.—
Funds appropriated by this Act shall be
made available for programs and activities
in areas affected by the Lord’s Resistance
Army (LRA) consistent with the goals of the
Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and
Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 (Pub-
lic Law 111–172), including to improve phys-
ical access, telecommunications infrastruc-
ture, and early-warning mechanisms and to
support the disarmament, demobilization,
and reintegration of former LRA combat-
ants, especially child soldiers.
(d) LAKE CHAD BASIN COUNTRIES.—Funds
appropriated under titles III and IV of this
Act shall be made available, following con-
sultation with the Committees on Appropria-
tions, for assistance for Cameroon, Chad,
Niger, and Nigeria for—
(1) democracy, development, and health
programs;
(2) assistance for individuals targeted by
foreign terrorist and other extremist organi-
zations, including Boko Haram, consistent
with the provisions of section 7059 of this
Act;
(3) assistance for individuals displaced by
violent conflict; and
(4) counterterrorism programs.
(e) MALAWI.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Development
Assistance’’, not less than $56,000,000 shall be
made available for assistance for Malawi, of
which up to $10,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for higher education programs.
(f) SOUTH SUDAN.—Funds appropriated by
this Act that are made available for assist-
ance for the central Government of South
Sudan may only be made available, following
consultation with the Committees on Appro-
priations, for—
(1) humanitarian assistance;
(2) health programs, including to prevent,
detect, and respond to the Ebola virus dis-
ease;
(3) assistance to support South Sudan
peace negotiations or to advance or imple-
ment a peace agreement; and
(4) assistance to support implementation of
outstanding issues of the Comprehensive
Peace Agreement and mutual arrangements
related to such agreement:
Provided, That of the funds appropriated by
this Act for assistance for South Sudan, not
less than $7,000,000 shall be made available
for conflict mitigation and reconciliation
programs: Provided further, That prior to the
initial obligation of funds made available
pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4), the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with the Com-
mittees on Appropriations on the intended
uses of such funds and steps taken by such
government to advance or implement a
peace agreement.
(g) SUDAN.—
(1) LIMITATIONS.—
(A) ASSISTANCE.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, none of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act may be made avail-
able for assistance for the Government of
Sudan.
(B) LOANS.—None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be made available for the
cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, of modifying loans
and loan guarantees held by the Government
of Sudan, including the cost of selling, reduc-
ing, or canceling amounts owed to the
United States, and modifying concessional
loans, guarantees, and credit agreements.
(2) EXCLUSIONS.—The limitations of para-
graph (1) shall not apply to—
(A) humanitarian assistance;
(B) assistance for democracy programs;
(C) assistance for the Darfur region, South-
ern Kordofan State, Blue Nile State, other
marginalized areas and populations in
Sudan, and Abyei; and
(D) assistance to support implementation
of outstanding issues of the Comprehensive
Peace Agreement, mutual arrangements re-
lated to post-referendum issues associated
with such Agreement, or any other inter-
nationally recognized viable peace agree-
ment in Sudan.
(h) ZIMBABWE.—
(1) INSTRUCTION.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States ex-
ecutive director of each international finan-
cial institution to vote against any exten-
sion by the respective institution of any loan
or grant to the Government of Zimbabwe, ex-
cept to meet basic human needs or to pro-
mote democracy, unless the Secretary of
State certifies and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that the rule of law
has been restored, including respect for own-
ership and title to property, and freedoms of
expression, association, and assembly.
(2) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act shall be made available
for assistance for the central Government of
Zimbabwe, except for health and education,
unless the Secretary of State certifies and
reports as required in paragraph (1), and
funds may be made available for macro-
economic growth assistance if the Secretary
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such government is implementing
transparent fiscal policies, including public
disclosure of revenues from the extraction of
natural resources.
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
SEC. 7043. (a) BURMA.—
(1) BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.—
(A) ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ for assistance for
Burma may be made available notwith-
standing any other provision of law, except
for this subsection, and following consulta-
tion with the appropriate congressional com-
mittees.
(B) USES.—Funds appropriated under title
III of this Act for assistance for Burma—
(i) shall be made available to strengthen
civil society organizations in Burma and for
programs to strengthen independent media;
(ii) shall be made available for community-
based organizations operating in Thailand to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1111
January 23, 2019
provide food, medical, and other humani-
tarian assistance to internally displaced per-
sons in eastern Burma, in addition to assist-
ance for Burmese refugees from funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Mi-
gration and Refugee Assistance’’;
(iii) shall be made available for programs
to promote ethnic and religious tolerance
and to combat gender-based violence, includ-
ing in Rakhine, Shan, Kachin, and Karen
states;
(iv) shall be made available to promote
rural economic development in Burma, in-
cluding through microfinance programs;
(v) shall be made available to increase op-
portunities for foreign direct investment by
strengthening the rule of law, transparency,
and accountability;
(vi) shall be made available for programs
to investigate and document allegations of
ethnic cleansing and other gross violations
of human rights committed against the
Rohingya people in Rakhine state: Provided,
That such sums shall be in addition to funds
otherwise made available for such purposes;
(vii) shall be made available for programs
to investigate and document allegations of
gross violations of human rights committed
in Burma, particularly in areas of conflict;
and
(viii) may be made available for ethnic
groups and civil society in Burma to help
sustain ceasefire agreements and further
prospects for reconciliation and peace, which
may include support to representatives of
ethnic armed groups for this purpose.
(C) LIMITATIONS.—Funds appropriated
under title III of this Act for assistance for
Burma—
(i) may not be made available to any indi-
vidual or organization if the Secretary of
State has credible information that such in-
dividual or organization has committed a
gross violation of human rights, including
against Rohingya and other minority groups,
or that advocates violence against ethnic or
religious groups or individuals in Burma;
(ii) may not be made available to any orga-
nization or entity controlled by the armed
forces of Burma;
(iii) may only be made available for pro-
grams to support the return of Rohingya,
Karen, and other refugees and internally dis-
placed persons to their locations of origin or
preference in Burma if such returns are vol-
untary and consistent with international
law; and
(iv) may only be made available for assist-
ance for the Government of Burma to sup-
port the implementation of Nationwide
Ceasefire Agreement conferences, commit-
tees, and other procedures if the Secretary of
State reports to the Committees on Appro-
priations that such procedures are directed
toward a sustainable peace and the Govern-
ment of Burma is implementing its commit-
ments under such Agreement.
(2) INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—
None of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘International Military
Education and Training’’ and ‘‘Foreign Mili-
tary Financing Program’’ may be made
available for assistance for Burma: Provided,
That the Department of State may continue
consultations with the armed forces of
Burma only on human rights and disaster re-
sponse in a manner consistent with the prior
fiscal year, and following consultation with
the appropriate congressional committees.
(3) PROGRAMS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(A) Any new program or activity in Burma
initiated in fiscal year 2019 shall be subject
to prior consultation with the appropriate
congressional committees.
(B) The United States Chief of Mission in
Burma, in consultation with the Assistant
Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights,
and Labor, Department of State, shall be re-
sponsible for democracy and human rights
programs in Burma.
(b) CAMBODIA.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—
(A) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act that are made available for assistance
for the Government of Cambodia, except for
health programs, may be obligated or ex-
pended unless the Secretary of State cer-
tifies and reports to the Committees on Ap-
propriations that such Government is taking
effective steps to—
(i) strengthen regional security and sta-
bility, particularly regarding territorial dis-
putes in the South China Sea and the en-
forcement of international sanctions with re-
spect to North Korea; and
(ii) respect the rights and responsibilities
enshrined in the Constitution of the King-
dom of Cambodia as enacted in 1993, includ-
ing through the—
(I) restoration of the civil and political
rights of the opposition Cambodia National
Rescue Party, media, and civil society orga-
nizations;
(II) restoration of all elected officials to
elected offices held prior to the July 2018
parliamentary elections; and
(III) release of all political prisoners, in-
cluding journalists, civil society activists,
and members of the opposition political
party.
(B) Funds appropriated under title III of
this Act for assistance for Cambodia shall be
made available for—
(i) democracy programs, including research
and education programs associated with the
Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, except that no
funds for such purposes may be made avail-
able to the Extraordinary Chambers in the
Court of Cambodia; and
(ii) programs in the Khmer language to
counter the influence of the People’s Repub-
lic of China in Cambodia.
(2) VISA RESTRICTION.—Funds appropriated
under title I of this Act shall be made avail-
able to continue to implement the policy an-
nounced by the Department of State on De-
cember 6, 2017, to restrict the issuance of
visas to enter the United States to individ-
uals involved in undermining democracy in
Cambodia, including the family members of
such individuals, as appropriate: Provided,
That not later than 30 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall sub-
mit a report to the appropriate congressional
committees describing the implementation
of such policy.
(c) INDO-PACIFIC STRATEGY.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act, not less than
$160,000,000 shall be made available to sup-
port the implementation of the Indo-Pacific
Strategy: Provided, That such funds are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes.
(d) NORTH KOREA.—
(1) CYBERSECURITY.—None of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams may be made available for assistance
for the central government of a country the
Secretary of State determines and reports to
the appropriate congressional committees
engages in significant transactions contrib-
uting materially to the malicious cyber-in-
trusion capabilities of the Government of
North Korea: Provided, That the Secretary of
State shall submit the report required by
section 209 of the North Korea Sanctions and
Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (Public Law
114–122; 22 U.S.C. 9229), as amended, to the
Committees on Appropriations in the man-
ner described in subparagraph (2)(A) of such
section: Provided further, That the Secretary
of State may waive the application of the re-
striction in this paragraph with respect to
assistance for the central government of a
country if the Secretary determines and re-
ports to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees that to do so is important to the na-
tional security interest of the United States,
including a description of such interest
served.
(2) BROADCASTS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘International
Broadcasting Operations’’ shall be made
available to maintain broadcasting hours
into North Korea at levels not less than the
prior fiscal year.
(3) REFUGEES.—Funds appropriated by this
Act under the heading ‘‘Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance’’ should be made available
for assistance for refugees from North Korea,
including protection activities in the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China and other countries
in Asia.
(4) HUMAN RIGHTS PROMOTION, DATABASE,
AND LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—
(A) HUMAN RIGHTS PROMOTION.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Democracy
Fund’’ shall be made available for the pro-
motion of human rights in North Korea: Pro-
vided, That the authority of section 7032(b) of
this Act shall apply to such funds.
(B) DATABASE.—Funds appropriated by this
Act under title III shall be made available to
maintain a database of prisons and gulags in
North Korea, in accordance with section
7032(i) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law
113–76).
(C) LIMITATION.—None of the funds made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ may be made
available for assistance for the Government
of North Korea.
(e) PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.—
(1) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—None of
the funds appropriated under the heading
‘‘Diplomatic Programs’’ in this Act may be
obligated or expended for processing licenses
for the export of satellites of United States
origin (including commercial satellites and
satellite components) to the People’s Repub-
lic of China (PRC) unless, at least 15 days in
advance, the Committees on Appropriations
are notified of such proposed action.
(2) PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY.—The terms
and requirements of section 620(h) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall apply to
foreign assistance projects or activities of
the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of the
PRC, to include such projects or activities
by any entity that is owned or controlled by,
or an affiliate of, the PLA: Provided, That
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available pursuant to this Act may be
used to finance any grant, contract, or coop-
erative agreement with the PLA, or any en-
tity that the Secretary of State has reason
to believe is owned or controlled by, or an af-
filiate of, the PLA.
(3) AUTHORITY AND NOTIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENT.—
(A) AUTHORITY.—The uses of funds made
available by this Act for the promotion of
democracy in the PRC, except for funds
made available under subsection (g), shall be
the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary
for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
Department of State.
(B) NOTIFICATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act that are made available for tri-
lateral programs conducted with the PRC
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions.
(f) PHILIPPINES.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’ may be made available for counter-
narcotics assistance for the Philippines, ex-
cept for drug demand reduction, maritime
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1112 January 23, 2019
law enforcement, or transnational interdic-
tion.
(g) TIBET.—
(1) FINANCING OF PROJECTS IN TIBET.—The
Secretary of the Treasury should instruct
the United States executive director of each
international financial institution to use the
voice and vote of the United States to sup-
port financing of projects in Tibet if such
projects do not provide incentives for the mi-
gration and settlement of non-Tibetans into
Tibet or facilitate the transfer of ownership
of Tibetan land and natural resources to
non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough needs-
assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Ti-
betan people and respect Tibetan culture and
traditions, and are subject to effective moni-
toring.
(2) PROGRAMS FOR TIBETAN COMMUNITIES.—
(A) TIBET AUTONOMOUS REGION.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, of the
funds appropriated by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not less
than $8,000,000 shall be made available to
nongovernmental organizations to support
activities which preserve cultural traditions
and promote sustainable development, edu-
cation, and environmental conservation in
Tibetan communities in the Tibet Autono-
mous Region and in other Tibetan commu-
nities in China.
(B) INDIA AND NEPAL.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’, not less than
$6,000,000 shall be made available for pro-
grams to promote and preserve Tibetan cul-
ture, development, and the resilience of Ti-
betan communities in India and Nepal, and
to assist in the education and development
of the next generation of Tibetan leaders
from such communities: Provided, That such
funds are in addition to amounts made avail-
able in subparagraph (A) for programs inside
Tibet.
(C) TIBETAN GOVERNANCE.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not less than
$3,000,000 shall be made available for pro-
grams to strengthen the capacity of Tibetan
institutions and governance.
(h) VIETNAM.—
(1) DIOXIN REMEDIATION.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not less than
$20,000,000 shall be made available for activi-
ties related to the remediation of dioxin con-
taminated sites in Vietnam and may be
made available for assistance for the Govern-
ment of Vietnam, including the military, for
such purposes.
(2) HEALTH AND DISABILITY PROGRAMS.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act under the
heading ‘‘Development Assistance’’, not less
than $12,500,000 shall be made available for
health and disability programs in areas
sprayed with Agent Orange and otherwise
contaminated with dioxin, to assist individ-
uals with severe upper or lower body mobil-
ity impairment or cognitive or develop-
mental disabilities.
(3) RECONCILIATION PROGRAMS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ that are made
available for assistance for Vietnam shall be
made available for reconciliation programs
to address war legacy issues.
SOUTH AND CENTRAL ASIA
SEC. 7044. (a) AFGHANISTAN.—
(1) FUNDING AND LIMITATIONS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’ that are made available for assistance
for Afghanistan—
(A) shall be made available to implement
the South Asia Strategy, the Revised Strat-
egy for United States Engagement in Af-
ghanistan, and the United States Agency for
International Development Country Devel-
opment Cooperation Strategy for Afghani-
stan;
(B) shall be made available for programs in
support of such strategies that protect and
strengthen the rights of women and girls and
promote the political and economic em-
powerment of women, including their mean-
ingful inclusion in political processes: Pro-
vided, That such assistance to promote the
economic empowerment of women shall be
made available as grants to Afghan organiza-
tions, to the maximum extent practicable;
and
(C) may not be made available for any pro-
gram, project, or activity that—
(i) cannot be sustained, as appropriate, by
the Government of Afghanistan or another
Afghan entity;
(ii) is not accessible for the purposes of
conducting effective oversight in accordance
with applicable Federal statutes and regula-
tions;
(iii) initiates any new, major infrastruc-
ture development; or
(iv) includes the participation of any Af-
ghan individual, organization, or govern-
ment entity if the Secretary of State has
credible information that such individual,
organization, or entity is knowingly in-
volved in acts of grand corruption, illicit
narcotics production or trafficking, or has
committed a gross violation of human
rights.
(2) AUTHORITIES.—
(A) Funds appropriated by this Act under
title III through VI that are made available
for assistance for Afghanistan may be made
available—
(i) notwithstanding section 7012 of this Act
or any similar provision of law and section
660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
(ii) for reconciliation programs and disar-
mament, demobilization, and reintegration
activities for former combatants who have
renounced violence against the Government
of Afghanistan, including in accordance with
section 7046(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Department of
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of
Public Law 112–74); and
(iii) for an endowment to empower women
and girls.
(B) Section 7046(a)(2)(A) of the Department
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 (division
I of Public Law 112–74) shall apply to funds
appropriated by this Act for assistance for
Afghanistan.
(3) BASING RIGHTS AGREEMENT.—None of the
funds made available by this Act may be
used by the United States Government to
enter into a permanent basing rights agree-
ment between the United States and Afghan-
istan.
(b) NEPAL.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds appropriated
under titles III and IV of this Act, not less
than $124,580,000 shall be made available for
assistance for Nepal, including for earth-
quake recovery and reconstruction pro-
grams.
(2) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PRO-
GRAM.—Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ shall only be made available
for humanitarian and disaster relief and re-
construction activities in Nepal, and in sup-
port of international peacekeeping oper-
ations: Provided, That such funds may only
be made available for any additional uses if
the Secretary of State certifies and reports
to the Committees on Appropriations that
the Government of Nepal is investigating
and prosecuting violations of human rights
and the laws of war, and the Nepal Army is
cooperating fully with civilian judicial au-
thorities in such cases.
(c) PAKISTAN.—
(1) INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—
(A) LIMITATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Foreign Mili-
tary Financing Program’’ for assistance for
Pakistan may be made available only to sup-
port counterterrorism and counterinsur-
gency capabilities in Pakistan.
(B) CONSULTATION.—Not later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act, and prior to the
submission of the report required by section
653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
the Secretary of State shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on the
amount of funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ that is anticipated to be sub-
ject to the January 2018 policy decision of
the United States to suspend security assist-
ance for Pakistan, or any subsequent policy
decision affecting such assistance: Provided,
That the Secretary shall promptly inform
the appropriate congressional committees in
writing of any changes to such policy, the
justification for such changes, and the
progress made by the Government of Paki-
stan in meeting the counterterrorism objec-
tives described under this section in Senate
Report 115–282.
(C) REPROGRAMMING.—Funds appropriated
by this Act and prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs under the
heading ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Pro-
gram’’ for assistance for Pakistan that are
withheld from obligation or expenditure by
the Department of State may be repro-
grammed by the Secretary of State, except
that no such funds may be reprogrammed
that are required to complete payment on
existing and previously approved contracts:
Provided, That such reprogramming shall be
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
(2) BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE RE-
PORT.—Prior to the obligation of funds made
available by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ for assistance for
the central Government of Pakistan, the
Secretary of State shall submit a report to
the appropriate congressional committees
detailing—
(A) the amount of financing and other sup-
port, if any, provided by the Government of
Pakistan to schools supported by, affiliated
with, or run by the Taliban or any domestic
or foreign terrorist organization in Pakistan;
(B) the extent of cooperation by such gov-
ernment in issuing visas in a timely manner
for United States visitors, including officials
and representatives of nongovernmental or-
ganizations, engaged in assistance and secu-
rity programs in Pakistan;
(C) the extent to which such government is
providing humanitarian organizations access
to detainees, internally displaced persons,
and other Pakistani civilians affected by
conflict in Pakistan and the region; and
(D) the extent to which such government is
strengthening democracy in Pakistan, in-
cluding protecting freedom of expression, as-
sembly, and religion.
(3) AUTHORITY AND USES OF FUNDS.—
(A) Funds appropriated by this Act for as-
sistance for Pakistan may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
except for section 620M of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961.
(B) Funds appropriated by this Act for as-
sistance for Pakistan that are made avail-
able for infrastructure projects shall be im-
plemented in a manner consistent with sec-
tion 507(6) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2467(6)).
(C) The authorities and directives of sec-
tion 7044(d)(4) of the Department of State,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1113
January 23, 2019
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public
Law 113–235) regarding scholarships for
women shall apply to funds appropriated by
this Act for assistance for Pakistan, fol-
lowing consultation with the Committees on
Appropriations.
(D) Funds appropriated by this Act under
the headings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and
‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining
and Related Programs’’ that are made avail-
able for assistance for Pakistan shall be
made available to interdict precursor mate-
rials from Pakistan to Afghanistan that are
used to manufacture improvised explosive
devices and for agriculture extension pro-
grams that encourage alternative fertilizer
use among Pakistani farmers to decrease the
dual use of fertilizer in the manufacturing of
improvised explosive devices.
(E) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘International Narcotics
Control and Law Enforcement’’ that are
made available for assistance for Pakistan,
not less than $15,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for border security programs in Paki-
stan, following consultation with the Com-
mittees on Appropriations.
(F) Funds appropriated by title III of this
Act shall be made available for programs to
promote democracy in Pakistan.
(4) WITHHOLDING.—Of the funds appro-
priated under titles III and IV of this Act
that are made available for assistance for
Pakistan, $33,000,000 shall be withheld from
obligation until the Secretary of State re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that Dr. Shakil Afridi has been released from
prison and cleared of all charges relating to
the assistance provided to the United States
in locating Osama bin Laden.
(5) OVERSIGHT.—The Secretary of State
shall take all practicable steps to ensure
that mechanisms are in place for moni-
toring, oversight, and control of funds made
available by this subsection for assistance
for Pakistan: Provided, That the Secretary
shall inform the Committees on Appropria-
tions of such steps in a timely manner.
(d) SRI LANKA.—
(1) BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.—
Funds appropriated under title III of this Act
shall be made available for assistance for Sri
Lanka for economic development and democ-
racy programs, particularly in areas recov-
ering from ethnic and religious conflict: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall be made avail-
able for programs to assist in the identifica-
tion and resolution of cases of missing per-
sons.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act for assistance for the central Gov-
ernment of Sri Lanka, except for funds made
available for humanitarian assistance and
victims of trauma, may be made available
only if the Secretary of State certifies and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that the Government of Sri Lanka is—
(A) repealing laws that do not comply with
international standards for arrest and deten-
tion by security forces, and ensuring that
any successor legislation meets such stand-
ards;
(B) increasing accountability and trans-
parency in governance;
(C) investigating allegations of arbitrary
arrest and torture, and supporting a credible
justice mechanism in compliance with
United Nations Human Rights Council Reso-
lution (A/HCR/RES/30/1) of October 2015;
(D) returning military occupied lands in
former conflict zones to their rightful own-
ers or compensating those whose land was
confiscated without due process, and which
is in addition to steps taken during the pre-
vious calendar year;
(E) establishing a functioning office of
missing persons and assisting its investiga-
tions of cases of missing persons from Sri
Lanka’s internal armed conflicts with the
cooperation of the armed forces of Sri
Lanka; and
(F) substantially reducing the presence of
the armed forces in former conflict zones and
implementing a plan for restructuring the
armed forces to adopt a peacetime role that
contributes to post-conflict reconciliation
and regional security.
(3) INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—
Funds appropriated under title IV of this Act
that are available for assistance for Sri
Lanka shall be subject to the following con-
ditions—
(A) not to exceed $500,000 under the head-
ing ‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’
may only be made available for programs to
support humanitarian and disaster response
preparedness and maritime security, includ-
ing professionalization and training for the
navy and coast guard; and
(B) funds under the heading ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ may only be made available for
training and equipment related to inter-
national peacekeeping operations and im-
provements to peacekeeping-related facili-
ties, and only if the Government of Sri
Lanka is taking effective steps to bring to
justice Sri Lankan peacekeeping troops who
have engaged in sexual exploitation and
abuse.
(e) REGIONAL PROGRAMS.—
(1) CROSS BORDER PROGRAMS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ for assistance for Af-
ghanistan and Pakistan may be provided,
notwithstanding any other provision of law
that restricts assistance to foreign coun-
tries, for cross border stabilization and de-
velopment programs between Afghanistan
and Pakistan, or between either country and
the Central Asian countries.
(2) SECURITY AND JUSTICE PROGRAMS.—
Funds appropriated by this Act that are
made available for assistance for countries
in South and Central Asia shall be made
available to accelerate the recruitment and
enhance the retention and professionalism of
women in the judiciary, police, and other se-
curity forces.
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
SEC. 7045. (a) CENTRAL AMERICA.—
(1) CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE FOR THE CEN-
TRAL GOVERNMENTS OF EL SALVADOR, GUATE-
MALA, AND HONDURAS.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under titles III and IV
that are made available for assistance for
each of the central governments of El Sal-
vador, Guatemala, and Honduras, 50 percent
may only be obligated after the Secretary of
State certifies and reports to the appropriate
congressional committees that such govern-
ment is—
(A) informing its citizens of the dangers of
the journey to the southwest border of the
United States;
(B) combating human smuggling and traf-
ficking;
(C) improving border security, including
preventing illegal migration, human smug-
gling and trafficking, and trafficking of il-
licit drugs and other contraband;
(D) cooperating with United States Gov-
ernment agencies and other governments in
the region to facilitate the return, repatri-
ation, and reintegration of illegal migrants
arriving at the southwest border of the
United States who do not qualify for asylum,
consistent with international law;
(E) working cooperatively with an autono-
mous, publicly accountable entity to provide
oversight of the Plan of the Alliance for
Prosperity in the Northern Triangle in Cen-
tral America (the Plan);
(F) combating corruption, including inves-
tigating and prosecuting current and former
government officials credibly alleged to be
corrupt;
(G) implementing reforms, policies, and
programs to increase transparency and
strengthen public institutions and the rule
of law;
(H) working with local communities, civil
society organizations (including indigenous
and other marginalized groups), and local
governments in the implementation and
evaluation of activities of the Plan;
(I) countering the activities of criminal
gangs, drug traffickers, and transnational
criminal organizations;
(J) investigating and prosecuting in the ci-
vilian justice system government personnel
who are credibly alleged to have violated
human rights;
(K) cooperating with commissions against
corruption and impunity and with regional
human rights entities;
(L) supporting programs to reduce poverty,
expand education and vocational training for
at-risk youth, create jobs, and promote equi-
table economic growth, particularly in areas
contributing to large numbers of migrants;
(M) creating a professional, accountable ci-
vilian police force and ending the role of the
military in internal policing;
(N) protecting the right of political opposi-
tion parties and other members of civil soci-
ety to operate without interference;
(O) implementing tax reforms; and
(P) resolving commercial disputes.
(2) DETERMINATIONS AND IMPACT ON ASSIST-
ANCE.—
(A) INSUFFICIENT PROGRESS.—The Sec-
retary of State shall periodically review the
progress of each of the central governments
of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in
meeting the requirements of paragraph (1):
Provided, That if the Secretary determines
and reports to the appropriate congressional
committees that sufficient progress has not
been made by such government in meeting
such requirements, the Secretary shall sus-
pend, in whole or in part, assistance for such
government for programs supporting such re-
quirement, and shall notify the appropriate
congressional committees in writing of such
action: Provided further, That the Secretary
may resume such assistance if the Secretary
determines and reports to such committees
that corrective measures have been taken by
such government.
(B) CHANGE IN NATIONAL GOVERNMENT.—Not
later than 90 days following a change of na-
tional government in El Salvador, Guate-
mala, or Honduras, the Secretary of State
shall determine whether or not such govern-
ment is meeting the requirements of para-
graph (1) and submit a report to the appro-
priate congressional committees detailing
the reasons for such determination: Provided,
That if the Secretary determines that such
government is not meeting such require-
ments, then the Secretary shall suspend, in
whole or in part, assistance for such country
until such time as such determination and
report can be made.
(C) REPROGRAMMING.—Assistance sus-
pended pursuant to subparagraphs (A) or (B)
may be reprogrammed if the Secretary of
State determines that corrective measures
have not been taken: Provided, That any such
reprogramming shall only be made available
for assistance for other countries in Latin
America and the Caribbean and shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
(3) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary of State
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations not less than 14 days prior to sub-
mitting any certification made pursuant to
subsection (a)(1) and any suspension or re-
programming made pursuant to subsection
(a)(2).
(4) EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1114 January 23, 2019
(A) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitation of para-
graph (1) shall not apply to funds appro-
priated by this Act that are made available
for the International Commission against
Impunity in Guatemala, the Mission to Sup-
port the Fight against Corruption and Impu-
nity in Honduras, humanitarian assistance,
and food security programs.
(B) LIMITATIONS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act that are made available
for assistance for countries in Central Amer-
ica may be made available for direct govern-
ment-to-government assistance or for major
infrastructure projects.
(b) COLOMBIA.—
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under titles III and IV, not less
than $418,253,000 shall be made available for
assistance for Colombia, including to support
the efforts of the Government of Colombia
to—
(A) conduct a unified campaign against
narcotics trafficking, organizations des-
ignated as foreign terrorist organizations
pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), and other
criminal or illegal armed groups: Provided,
That aircraft supported by funds made avail-
able by this Act and prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
may be used to transport personnel and sup-
plies involved in drug eradication and inter-
diction, including security for such activi-
ties, and to provide transport in support of
alternative development programs and inves-
tigations by civilian judicial authorities;
(B) enhance security and stability in Co-
lombia and the region;
(C) strengthen and expand governance, the
rule of law, and access to justice throughout
Colombia;
(D) promote economic and social develop-
ment, including by improving access to areas
impacted by conflict through demining pro-
grams;
(E) assist communities impacted by sig-
nificant refugee or migrant populations; and
(F) implement a peace agreement between
the Government of Colombia and illegal
armed groups, in accordance with constitu-
tional and legal requirements in Colombia.
(2) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act or prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
that are made available for assistance for
Colombia may be made available for pay-
ment of reparations to conflict victims or
compensation to demobilized combatants as-
sociated with a peace agreement between the
Government of Colombia and illegal armed
groups.
(3) COUNTERNARCOTICS.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the headings ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’
and made available for counternarcotics as-
sistance for Colombia, 20 percent may be ob-
ligated only after the Secretary of State cer-
tifies and reports to the Committees on Ap-
propriations that the Government of Colom-
bia has reduced overall illicit drug cultiva-
tion, production, and trafficking.
(4) HUMAN RIGHTS.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘For-
eign Military Financing Program’’ and made
available for assistance for Colombia, 20 per-
cent may be obligated only after the Sec-
retary of State certifies and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that—
(A) the Special Jurisdiction for Peace and
other judicial authorities are taking effec-
tive steps to hold accountable perpetrators
of gross violations of human rights in a man-
ner consistent with international law, in-
cluding for command responsibility, and sen-
tence them to deprivation of liberty;
(B) the Government of Colombia is taking
effective steps to reduce attacks against
human rights defenders and other civil soci-
ety activists, trade unionists, and journal-
ists, and judicial authorities are prosecuting
those responsible for such attacks; and
(C) senior military officers responsible for
ordering, committing, and covering up cases
of false positives are being held accountable,
including removal from active duty if found
guilty through criminal or disciplinary pro-
ceedings.
(5) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitations of para-
graphs (3) and (4) shall not apply to funds
made available for aviation instruction and
maintenance, and maritime and riverine se-
curity programs.
(c) HAITI.—
(1) CERTIFICATION.—Funds appropriated by
this Act under the headings ‘‘Development
Assistance’’ and ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’
that are made available for assistance for
Haiti may not be made available for assist-
ance for the central Government of Haiti un-
less the Secretary of State certifies and re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such government is taking effective
steps, which are steps taken since the certifi-
cation and report submitted during the prior
year, if applicable, to—
(A) strengthen the rule of law in Haiti, in-
cluding by—
(i) selecting judges in a transparent man-
ner based on merit;
(ii) reducing pre-trial detention;
(iii) respecting the independence of the ju-
diciary; and
(iv) improving governance by imple-
menting reforms to increase transparency
and accountability, including through the
penal and criminal codes;
(B) combat corruption, including by imple-
menting the anti-corruption law enacted in
2014 and prosecuting corrupt officials;
(C) increase government revenues, includ-
ing by implementing tax reforms, and in-
creasing expenditures on public services; and
(D) resolve commercial disputes between
United States entities and the Government
of Haiti.
(2) HAITIAN COAST GUARD.—The Govern-
ment of Haiti shall be eligible to purchase
defense articles and services under the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for
the Coast Guard.
(d) VENEZUELA.—Of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’, not less than $17,500,000 shall
be made available for programs to promote
democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela.
EUROPE AND EURASIA
SEC. 7046. (a) ASSISTANCE.—
(1) GEORGIA.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under titles III and IV, not less than
$127,025,000 shall be made available for assist-
ance for Georgia.
(2) UKRAINE.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under titles III and IV, not less than
$445,700,000 shall be made available for assist-
ance for Ukraine.
(b) LIMITATION.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act may be made available
for assistance for a government of an Inde-
pendent State of the former Soviet Union if
such government directs any action in viola-
tion of the territorial integrity or national
sovereignty of any other Independent State
of the former Soviet Union, such as those
violations included in the Helsinki Final
Act: Provided, That except as otherwise pro-
vided in section 7047(a) of this Act, funds
may be made available without regard to the
restriction in this subsection if the President
determines that to do so is in the national
security interest of the United States: Pro-
vided further, That prior to executing the au-
thority contained in the previous proviso,
the Secretary of State shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on how such
assistance supports the national security in-
terest of the United States.
(c) SECTION 907 OF THE FREEDOM SUPPORT
ACT.—Section 907 of the FREEDOM Support
Act (22 U.S.C. 5812 note) shall not apply to—
(1) activities to support democracy or as-
sistance under title V of the FREEDOM Sup-
port Act (22 U.S.C. 5851 et seq.) and section
1424 of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass
Destruction Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 2333) or
non-proliferation assistance;
(2) any assistance provided by the Trade
and Development Agency under section 661
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2421);
(3) any activity carried out by a member of
the United States and Foreign Commercial
Service while acting within his or her offi-
cial capacity;
(4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee,
or other assistance provided by the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation under title
IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
(5) any financing provided under the Ex-
port-Import Bank Act of 1945 (Public Law 79–
173); or
(6) humanitarian assistance.
(d) TURKEY.—
(1) TURKISH PRESIDENTIAL PROTECTION DI-
RECTORATE.—None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to facilitate or
support the sale of defense articles or defense
services to the Turkish Presidential Protec-
tion Directorate (TPPD) under chapter 2 of
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761
et seq.), unless the Secretary of State deter-
mines and reports to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that members of the
TPPD that are named in the July 17, 2017 in-
dictment by the Superior Court of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and against whom charges
are pending, have returned to the United
States to stand trial in connection with the
offenses contained in such indictment or
have otherwise been brought to justice: Pro-
vided, That the limitation in this paragraph
shall not apply to the use of funds made
available by this Act for border security pur-
poses, for North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion or coalition operations, or to enhance
the protection of United States officials and
facilities in Turkey.
(2) RESTRICTION ON FUNDS.—
(A) Not later than November 1, 2019, but no
sooner than six months after enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of State, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Defense, shall sub-
mit an update to the report required by sec-
tion 1282 of the John S. McCain National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019
(Public Law 115–232) regarding the purchase
by the Republic of Turkey of the S–400 mis-
sile defense system from the Russian Federa-
tion: Provided, That such report shall also in-
clude a detailed description of plans for the
imposition of sanctions, if appropriate, for
such purchase pursuant to section 231 of the
Countering Russian Influence in Europe and
Eurasia Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–44).
(B) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act and prior Acts making appropriations
for the Department of State, foreign oper-
ations, and related programs may be made
available to deliver F–35 aircraft to the terri-
tory of the Republic of Turkey until the re-
port in subparagraph (A) is submitted to the
Congress.
COUNTERING RUSSIAN INFLUENCE AND
AGGRESSION
SEC. 7047. (a) LIMITATION.—None of the
funds appropriated by this Act may be made
available for assistance for the central Gov-
ernment of the Russian Federation.
(b) ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1115
January 23, 2019
(1) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available for assistance for
the central government of a country that the
Secretary of State determines and reports to
the Committees on Appropriations has taken
affirmative steps intended to support or be
supportive of the Russian Federation annex-
ation of Crimea or other territory in
Ukraine: Provided, That except as otherwise
provided in subsection (a), the Secretary
may waive the restriction on assistance re-
quired by this paragraph if the Secretary de-
termines and reports to such Committees
that to do so is in the national interest of
the United States, and includes a justifica-
tion for such interest.
(2) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available for—
(A) the implementation of any action or
policy that recognizes the sovereignty of the
Russian Federation over Crimea or other ter-
ritory in Ukraine;
(B) the facilitation, financing, or guar-
antee of United States Government invest-
ments in Crimea or other territory in
Ukraine under the control of Russian-backed
separatists, if such activity includes the par-
ticipation of Russian Government officials,
or other Russian owned or controlled finan-
cial entities; or
(C) assistance for Crimea or other territory
in Ukraine under the control of Russian-
backed separatists, if such assistance in-
cludes the participation of Russian Govern-
ment officials, or other Russian owned or
controlled financial entities.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States executive directors
of each international financial institution to
vote against any assistance by such institu-
tion (including any loan, credit, or guar-
antee) for any program that violates the sov-
ereignty or territorial integrity of Ukraine.
(4) The requirements and limitations of
this subsection shall cease to be in effect if
the Secretary of State determines and re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that the Government of Ukraine has reestab-
lished sovereignty over Crimea and other
territory in Ukraine under the control of
Russian-backed separatists.
(c) OCCUPATION OF THE GEORGIAN TERRI-
TORIES OF ABKHAZIA AND TSKHINVALI REGION/
SOUTH OSSETIA.—
(1) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available for assistance for
the central government of a country that the
Secretary of State determines and reports to
the Committees on Appropriations has rec-
ognized the independence of, or has estab-
lished diplomatic relations with, the Russian
occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia
and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall publish on
the Department of State website a list of any
such central governments in a timely man-
ner: Provided further, That the Secretary
may waive the restriction on assistance re-
quired by this paragraph if the Secretary de-
termines and reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that to do so is in the na-
tional interest of the United States, and in-
cludes a justification for such interest.
(2) None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available to support the
Russian occupation of the Georgian terri-
tories of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/
South Ossetia.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States executive directors
of each international financial institution to
vote against any assistance by such institu-
tion (including any loan, credit, or guar-
antee) for any program that violates the sov-
ereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia.
(d) COUNTERING RUSSIAN INFLUENCE
FUND.—
(1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the headings ‘‘Assistance for Europe,
Eurasia and Central Asia’’, ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’,
‘‘International Military Education and
Training’’, and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing
Program’’, not less than $275,000,000 shall be
made available to carry out the purposes of
the Countering Russian Influence Fund, as
authorized by section 254 of the Countering
Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act
of 2017 (Public Law 115–44; 22 U.S.C. 9543) and
notwithstanding the country limitation in
subsection (b) of such section, and programs
to enhance the capacity of law enforcement
and security forces in countries in Europe
and Eurasia and strengthen security co-
operation between such countries and the
United States and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, as appropriate.
(2) Funds appropriated by this Act and
made available for assistance for the Eastern
Partnership countries shall be made avail-
able to advance the implementation of Asso-
ciation Agreements and trade agreements
with the European Union, and to reduce
their vulnerability to external economic and
political pressure from the Russian Federa-
tion.
(e) DEMOCRACY PROGRAMS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act shall be made available
to support democracy programs in the Rus-
sian Federation, including to promote Inter-
net freedom, and shall also be made avail-
able to support the democracy and rule of
law strategy required by section 7071(d) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113–
76).
UNITED NATIONS
SEC. 7048. (a) TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNT-
ABILITY.—
(1) RESTRICTIONS.—Of the funds appro-
priated under title I and under the heading
‘‘International Organizations and Programs’’
in title V of this Act that are available for
contributions to the United Nations (includ-
ing the Department of Peacekeeping Oper-
ations), any United Nations agency, or the
Organization of American States, 15 percent
may not be obligated for such organization,
department, or agency until the Secretary of
State determines and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that the organiza-
tion, department, or agency is—
(A) posting on a publicly available website,
consistent with privacy regulations and due
process, regular financial and programmatic
audits of such organization, department, or
agency, and providing the United States
Government with necessary access to such
financial and performance audits;
(B) effectively implementing and enforcing
policies and procedures which reflect best
practices for the protection of whistle-
blowers from retaliation, including best
practices for—
(i) protection against retaliation for inter-
nal and lawful public disclosures;
(ii) legal burdens of proof;
(iii) statutes of limitation for reporting re-
taliation;
(iv) access to independent adjudicative
bodies, including external arbitration; and
(v) results that eliminate the effects of
proven retaliation; and
(C) effectively implementing and enforcing
policies and procedures on the appropriate
use of travel funds, including restrictions on
first class and business class travel.
(2) WAIVER.—The restrictions imposed by
or pursuant to paragraph (1) may be waived
on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary of
State determines and reports to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that such waiver is
necessary to avert or respond to a humani-
tarian crisis.
(b) RESTRICTIONS ON UNITED NATIONS DELE-
GATIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS.—
(1) RESTRICTIONS ON UNITED STATES DELEGA-
TIONS.—None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used to pay expenses for any
United States delegation to any specialized
agency, body, or commission of the United
Nations if such agency, body, or commission
is chaired or presided over by a country, the
government of which the Secretary of State
has determined, for purposes of section 6(j)(1)
of the Export Administration Act of 1979 as
continued in effect pursuant to the Inter-
national Emergency Economic Powers Act
(50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), supports inter-
national terrorism.
(2) RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS.—None
of the funds made available by this Act may
be used by the Secretary of State as a con-
tribution to any organization, agency, com-
mission, or program within the United Na-
tions system if such organization, agency,
commission, or program is chaired or pre-
sided over by a country the government of
which the Secretary of State has deter-
mined, for purposes of section 620A of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 40 of
the Arms Export Control Act, section 6(j)(1)
of the Export Administration Act of 1979, or
any other provision of law, is a government
that has repeatedly provided support for acts
of international terrorism.
(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the restriction in this subsection if the
Secretary determines and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that to do so
is important to the national interest of the
United States, including a description of the
national interest served.
(c) UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS COUN-
CIL.—None of the funds appropriated by this
Act may be made available in support of the
United Nations Human Rights Council unless
the Secretary of State determines and re-
ports to the Committees on Appropriations
that participation in the Council is impor-
tant to the national interest of the United
States and that such Council is taking sig-
nificant steps to remove Israel as a perma-
nent agenda item and ensure integrity in the
election of members to such Council: Pro-
vided, That such report shall include a de-
scription of the national interest served and
the steps taken to remove Israel as a perma-
nent agenda item and ensure integrity in the
election of members to such Council: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of State
shall report to the Committees on Appro-
priations not later than September 30, 2019,
on the resolutions considered in the United
Nations Human Rights Council during the
previous 12 months, and on steps taken to re-
move Israel as a permanent agenda item and
ensure integrity in the election of members
to such Council.
(d) UNITED NATIONS RELIEF AND WORKS
AGENCY.—Prior to the initial obligation of
funds for the United Nations Relief and
Works Agency (UNRWA), the Secretary of
State shall report to the Committees on Ap-
propriations, in writing, on whether UNRWA
is—
(1) utilizing Operations Support Officers in
the West Bank, Gaza, and other fields of op-
eration to inspect UNRWA installations and
reporting any inappropriate use;
(2) acting promptly to address any staff or
beneficiary violation of its own policies (in-
cluding the policies on neutrality and impar-
tiality of employees) and the legal require-
ments under section 301(c) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961;
(3) implementing procedures to maintain
the neutrality of its facilities, including im-
plementing a no-weapons policy, and con-
ducting regular inspections of its installa-
tions, to ensure they are only used for hu-
manitarian or other appropriate purposes;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1116 January 23, 2019
(4) taking necessary and appropriate meas-
ures to ensure it is operating in compliance
with the conditions of section 301(c) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and con-
tinuing regular reporting to the Department
of State on actions it has taken to ensure
conformance with such conditions;
(5) taking steps to ensure the content of all
educational materials currently taught in
UNRWA-administered schools and summer
camps is consistent with the values of
human rights, dignity, and tolerance and
does not induce incitement;
(6) not engaging in operations with finan-
cial institutions or related entities in viola-
tion of relevant United States law, and is
taking steps to improve the financial trans-
parency of the organization; and
(7) in compliance with the United Nations
Board of Auditors’ biennial audit require-
ments and is implementing in a timely fash-
ion the Board’s recommendations.
(e) PROHIBITION OF PAYMENTS TO UNITED
NATIONS MEMBERS.—None of the funds appro-
priated or made available pursuant to titles
III through VI of this Act for carrying out
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be
used to pay in whole or in part any assess-
ments, arrearages, or dues of any member of
the United Nations or, from funds appro-
priated by this Act to carry out chapter 1 of
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
the costs for participation of another coun-
try’s delegation at international conferences
held under the auspices of multilateral or
international organizations.
(f) CAPITAL PROJECTS.—Any operating plan
submitted pursuant to this Act for funds
made available under the heading ‘‘Contribu-
tions to International Organizations’’ shall
include information on capital projects, as
described under such heading in House Re-
port 115–253.
(g) REPORT.—Not later than 45 days after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations detailing the amount
of funds available for obligation or expendi-
ture in fiscal year 2019 for contributions to
any organization, department, agency, or
program within the United Nations system
or any international program that are with-
held from obligation or expenditure due to
any provision of law: Provided, That the Sec-
retary shall update such report each time ad-
ditional funds are withheld by operation of
any provision of law: Provided further, That
the reprogramming of any withheld funds
identified in such report, including updates
thereof, shall be subject to prior consulta-
tion with, and the regular notification proce-
dures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
(h) SEXUAL EXPLOITATION AND ABUSE IN
PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds appropriated by
this Act shall be made available to imple-
ment section 301 of the Department of State
Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 114–323).
(2) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.—The Secretary
of State should withhold assistance to any
unit of the security forces of a foreign coun-
try if the Secretary has credible information
that such unit has engaged in sexual exploi-
tation or abuse, including while serving in a
United Nations peacekeeping operation,
until the Secretary determines that the gov-
ernment of such country is taking effective
steps to hold the responsible members of
such unit accountable and to prevent future
incidents: Provided, That the Secretary shall
promptly notify the government of each
country subject to any withholding of assist-
ance pursuant to this paragraph, and shall
notify the appropriate congressional com-
mittees of such withholding not later than 10
days after a determination to withhold such
assistance is made: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall, to the maximum extent
practicable, assist such government in bring-
ing the responsible members of such unit to
justice.
(i) ADDITIONAL AVAILABILITY.—Subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations, funds appro-
priated by this Act which are returned or not
made available due to the implementation of
subsection (a), the second proviso under the
heading ‘‘Contributions for International
Peacekeeping Activities’’ in title I of this
Act, or section 307(a) of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2227(a)), shall re-
main available for obligation until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the require-
ment to withhold funds for programs in
Burma under section 307(a) of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to
funds appropriated by this Act.
(j) NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST WITH-
HOLDING.—
(1) WITHHOLDING.—The Secretary of State
shall withhold 5 percent of the funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Con-
tributions to International Organizations’’
for a specialized agency or other entity of
the United Nations if the Secretary, in con-
sultation with the United States Ambas-
sador to the United Nations, determines and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that such agency or entity has taken an offi-
cial action that is against the national secu-
rity interest of the United States or an ally
of the United States, including Israel.
(2) RELEASE OF FUNDS.—The Secretary of
State, in consultation with the United
States Ambassador to the United Nations,
may release funds withheld pursuant to
paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines
and reports to the Committees on Appropria-
tions that such agency or entity is taking
steps to address the action that resulted in
the withholding of such funds.
(3) REPROGRAMMING.—Should the Secretary
of State be unable to make a determination
pursuant to paragraph (2) regarding the re-
lease of withheld funds, such funds may be
reprogrammed for other purposes under the
heading ‘‘Contributions to International Or-
ganizations’’.
(4) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State, fol-
lowing consultation with the Committees on
Appropriations, may waive the requirements
of this subsection if the Secretary deter-
mines that to do so in the national interest.
(k) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, $25,000,000 shall
be transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated under the heading ‘‘International
Organizations and Programs’’, of which
$23,000,000 shall be for a contribution to sup-
port the United Nations resident coordinator
system and $2,000,000 shall be for a contribu-
tion to the Montreal Protocol Multilateral
Fund.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND SECURITY
SEC. 7049. (a) ASSISTANCE.—
(1) COMMUNITY-BASED POLICE ASSISTANCE.—
Funds made available under titles III and IV
of this Act to carry out the provisions of
chapter 1 of part I and chapters 4 and 6 of
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
may be used, notwithstanding section 660 of
that Act, to enhance the effectiveness and
accountability of civilian police authority
through training and technical assistance in
human rights, the rule of law, anti-corrup-
tion, strategic planning, and through assist-
ance to foster civilian police roles that sup-
port democratic governance, including as-
sistance for programs to prevent conflict, re-
spond to disasters, address gender-based vio-
lence, and foster improved police relations
with the communities they serve.
(2) COMBAT CASUALTY CARE.—
(A) Consistent with the objectives of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms
Export Control Act, funds appropriated by
this Act under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ shall be made available for
combat casualty training and equipment.
(B) The Secretary of State shall offer com-
bat casualty care training and equipment as
a component of any package of lethal assist-
ance funded by this Act with funds appro-
priated under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’: Provided, That the require-
ment of this subparagraph shall apply to a
country in conflict, unless the Secretary de-
termines that such country has in place, to
the maximum extent practicable, func-
tioning combat casualty care treatment and
equipment that meets or exceeds the stand-
ards recommended by the Committee on
Tactical Combat Casualty Care: Provided fur-
ther, That any such training and equipment
for combat casualty care shall be made
available through an open and transparent
process.
(3) COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS
FUND.—Funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading Nonproliferation, Anti-ter-
rorism, Demining and Related Programs
shall be made available for the Counterter-
rorism Partnerships Fund for programs in
areas liberated from, under the influence of,
or adversely affected by, the Islamic State of
Iraq and Syria or other terrorist organiza-
tions: Provided, That such areas shall include
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to the obligation of funds
made available pursuant to this paragraph,
the Secretary of State shall take all prac-
ticable steps to ensure that mechanisms are
in place for monitoring, oversight, and con-
trol of such funds: Provided further, That
funds made available pursuant to this para-
graph shall be subject to prior consultation
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees, and the regular notification procedures
of the Committees on Appropriations.
(4) TRAINING RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL
HUMANITARIAN LAW.—The Secretary of State
shall offer training related to the require-
ments of international humanitarian law as
a component of any package of lethal assist-
ance funded by this Act with funds appro-
priated under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’: Provided, That the require-
ment of this paragraph shall not apply to a
country that is a member of the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization (NATO), is a
major non-NATO ally designated by section
517(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
or is complying with international humani-
tarian law: Provided further, That any such
training shall be made available through an
open and transparent process.
(5) SECURITY FORCE PROFESSIONALIZATION.—
Funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’ and ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ shall be made available to in-
crease the capacity of foreign military and
law enforcement personnel to operate in ac-
cordance with appropriate standards relating
to human rights and the protection of civil-
ians in the manner specified under this sec-
tion in the explanatory statement described
in section 4 (in the matter preceding division
A of this consolidated Act), following con-
sultation with the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That funds made available
pursuant to this paragraph shall only be
made available on an open and competitive
basis.
(b) AUTHORITIES.—
(1) RECONSTITUTING CIVILIAN POLICE AU-
THORITY.—In providing assistance with funds
appropriated by this Act under section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1117
January 23, 2019
660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, support for a nation emerging from in-
stability may be deemed to mean support for
regional, district, municipal, or other sub-
national entity emerging from instability, as
well as a nation emerging from instability.
(2) DISARMAMENT, DEMOBILIZATION, AND RE-
INTEGRATION.—Section 7034(d) of the Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (di-
vision J of Public Law 113–235) shall continue
in effect during fiscal year 2019.
(3) INTERNATIONAL PRISON CONDITIONS.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘Development Assistance’’, ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’, and ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’,
not less than $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for assistance to eliminate inhumane
conditions in foreign prisons and other de-
tention facilities, notwithstanding section
660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of State and the
USAID Administrator shall consult with the
Committees on Appropriations on the pro-
posed uses of such funds prior to obligation
and not later than 120 days after enactment
of this Act: Provided further, That such funds
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made
available by this Act for such purpose.
(4) EXTENSION OF WAR RESERVES STOCKPILE
AUTHORITY.—
(A) Section 12001(d) of the Department of
Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law
108–287; 118 Stat. 1011) is amended by striking
‘‘of this section’’ and all that follows
through the period at the end and inserting
‘‘of this section after September 30, 2020.’’.
(B) Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A))
is amended by striking ‘‘and 2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019, and 2020’’.
(5) COMMERCIAL LEASING OF DEFENSE ARTI-
CLES.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, and subject to the regular notifica-
tion procedures of the Committees on Appro-
priations, the authority of section 23(a) of
the Arms Export Control Act may be used to
provide financing to Israel, Egypt, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and
major non-NATO allies for the procurement
by leasing (including leasing with an option
to purchase) of defense articles from United
States commercial suppliers, not including
Major Defense Equipment (other than heli-
copters and other types of aircraft having
possible civilian application), if the Presi-
dent determines that there are compelling
foreign policy or national security reasons
for those defense articles being provided by
commercial lease rather than by govern-
ment-to-government sale under such Act.
(6) SPECIAL DEFENSE ACQUISITION FUND.—
Not to exceed $900,000,000 may be obligated
pursuant to section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Ex-
port Control Act for the purposes of the Spe-
cial Defense Acquisition Fund (the Fund), to
remain available for obligation until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That the provision
of defense articles and defense services to
foreign countries or international organiza-
tions from the Fund shall be subject to the
concurrence of the Secretary of State.
(7) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.—For the purposes
of funds appropriated by this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs that are made available for
assistance for units of foreign security
forces, the term ‘‘to the maximum extent
practicable’’ in section 620M(d)(7) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2378d)
means that the identity of such units shall
be made publicly available unless the Sec-
retary of State, on a case-by-case basis, de-
termines and reports to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that disclosure would
endanger the safety of human sources or re-
veal sensitive intelligence sources and meth-
ods, or that non-disclosure is in the national
security interest of the United States: Pro-
vided, That any such determination shall in-
clude a detailed justification, and may be
submitted in classified form.
(c) LIMITATIONS.—
(1) CHILD SOLDIERS.—Funds appropriated by
this Act should not be used to support any
military training or operations that include
child soldiers.
(2) LANDMINES AND CLUSTER MUNITIONS.—
(A) LANDMINES.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, demining equipment
available to the United States Agency for
International Development and the Depart-
ment of State and used in support of the
clearance of landmines and unexploded ord-
nance for humanitarian purposes may be dis-
posed of on a grant basis in foreign coun-
tries, subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary of State may prescribe.
(B) CLUSTER MUNITIONS.—No military as-
sistance shall be furnished for cluster muni-
tions, no defense export license for cluster
munitions may be issued, and no cluster mu-
nitions or cluster munitions technology
shall be sold or transferred, unless—
(i) the submunitions of the cluster muni-
tions, after arming, do not result in more
than 1 percent unexploded ordnance across
the range of intended operational environ-
ments, and the agreement applicable to the
assistance, transfer, or sale of such cluster
munitions or cluster munitions technology
specifies that the cluster munitions will only
be used against clearly defined military tar-
gets and will not be used where civilians are
known to be present or in areas normally in-
habited by civilians; or
(ii) such assistance, license, sale, or trans-
fer is for the purpose of demilitarizing or
permanently disposing of such cluster muni-
tions.
(3) CROWD CONTROL ITEMS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act should not be used for
tear gas, small arms, light weapons, ammu-
nition, or other items for crowd control pur-
poses for foreign security forces that use ex-
cessive force to repress peaceful expression,
association, or assembly in countries that
the Secretary of State determines are un-
democratic or are undergoing democratic
transitions.
(d) REPORTS.—
(1) SECURITY ASSISTANCE REPORT.—Not
later than 120 days after enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations a report
on funds obligated and expended during fis-
cal year 2018, by country and purpose of as-
sistance, under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’, ‘‘International Military Edu-
cation and Training’’, and ‘‘Foreign Military
Financing Program’’.
(2) QUARTERLY STATUS REPORT.—Following
the submission of the quarterly report re-
quired by section 36 of Public Law 90–629 (22
U.S.C. 2776), the Secretary of State, in co-
ordination with the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations a status report that contains the
information described under the heading
‘‘Foreign Military Financing Program’’ in
House Report 115–829.
(3) VETTING REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the appro-
priate congressional committees on foreign
assistance cases submitted for vetting for
purposes of section 620M of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 during the preceding fis-
cal year, including—
(i) the total number of cases submitted, ap-
proved, suspended, or rejected for human
rights reasons; and
(ii) for cases rejected, a description of the
steps taken to assist the foreign government
in taking effective measures to bring the re-
sponsible members of the security forces to
justice, in accordance with section 620M(c) of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
(B) FORM.—The report required by this
paragraph shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may be accompanied by a classi-
fied annex.
(4) ANNUAL FOREIGN MILITARY TRAINING RE-
PORT.—For the purposes of implementing
section 656 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the term ‘‘military training provided to
foreign military personnel by the Depart-
ment of Defense and the Department of
State’’ shall be deemed to include all mili-
tary training provided by foreign govern-
ments with funds appropriated to the De-
partment of Defense or the Department of
State, except for training provided by the
government of a country designated by sec-
tion 517(b) of such Act as a major non-NATO
ally.
ARMS TRADE TREATY
SEC. 7050. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be obligated or expended to
implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the
Senate approves a resolution of ratification
for the Treaty.
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES
SEC. 7051. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees of agencies or departments of the
United States Government who are stationed
in the United States, at any single inter-
national conference occurring outside the
United States, unless the Secretary of State
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
at least 5 days in advance that such attend-
ance is important to the national interest:
Provided, That for purposes of this section
the term ‘‘international conference’’ shall
mean a conference attended by representa-
tives of the United States Government and
of foreign governments, international orga-
nizations, or nongovernmental organiza-
tions.
AIRCRAFT TRANSFER, COORDINATION, AND USE
SEC. 7052. (a) TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law or
regulation, aircraft procured with funds ap-
propriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams under the headings ‘‘Diplomatic Pro-
grams’’, ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’, ‘‘Andean
Counterdrug Initiative’’, and ‘‘Andean
Counterdrug Programs’’ may be used for any
other program and in any region.
(b) PROPERTY DISPOSAL.—The authority
provided in subsection (a) shall apply only
after the Secretary of State determines and
reports to the Committees on Appropriations
that the equipment is no longer required to
meet programmatic purposes in the des-
ignated country or region: Provided, That
any such transfer shall be subject to prior
consultation with, and the regular notifica-
tion procedures of, the Committees on Ap-
propriations.
(c) AIRCRAFT COORDINATION.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—The uses of aircraft pur-
chased or leased by the Department of State
and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development with funds made
available in this Act or prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
shall be coordinated under the authority of
the appropriate Chief of Mission: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 7006(b) of this
Act, such aircraft may be used to transport,
on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1118 January 23, 2019
Federal and non-Federal personnel sup-
porting Department of State and USAID pro-
grams and activities: Provided further, That
official travel for other agencies for other
purposes may be supported on a reimburs-
able basis, or without reimbursement when
traveling on a space available basis: Provided
further, That funds received by the Depart-
ment of State in connection with the use of
aircraft owned, leased, or chartered by the
Department of State may be credited to the
Working Capital Fund of the Department
and shall be available for expenses related to
the purchase, lease, maintenance, char-
tering, or operation of such aircraft.
(2) SCOPE.—The requirement and authori-
ties of this subsection shall only apply to
aircraft, the primary purpose of which is the
transportation of personnel.
(d) AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS AND MAINTE-
NANCE.—To the maximum extent practicable,
the costs of operations and maintenance, in-
cluding fuel, of aircraft funded by this Act
shall be borne by the recipient country.
PARKING FINES AND REAL PROPERTY TAXES
OWED BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
SEC. 7053. The terms and conditions of sec-
tion 7055 of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law
111–117) shall apply to this Act: Provided,
That the date ‘‘September 30, 2009’’ in sub-
section (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be
deemed to be ‘‘September 30, 2018’’.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
SEC. 7054. (a) EXTENSIONS.—The terms and
conditions of sections 7086(b) (1) and (2) and
7090(a) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law
111–117) shall apply to this Act.
(b) REPAYMENT.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States
Executive Director of the International Mon-
etary Fund (IMF) to seek to ensure that any
loan will be repaid to the IMF before other
private or multilateral creditors.
PROHIBITION ON PUBLICITY OR PROPAGANDA
SEC. 7055. No part of any appropriation
contained in this Act shall be used for pub-
licity or propaganda purposes within the
United States not authorized before the date
of the enactment of this Act by Congress:
Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 may be
made available to carry out the provisions of
section 316 of the International Security and
Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public
Law 96–533; 22 U.S.C. 2151a note).
DISABILITY PROGRAMS
SEC. 7056. (a) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Support Fund’’ shall be made avail-
able for programs and activities adminis-
tered by the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development to address the needs
and protect and promote the rights of people
with disabilities in developing countries, in-
cluding initiatives that focus on independent
living, economic self-sufficiency, advocacy,
education, employment, transportation,
sports, and integration of individuals with
disabilities, including for the cost of trans-
lation.
(b) MANAGEMENT, OVERSIGHT, AND TECH-
NICAL SUPPORT.—Of the funds made available
pursuant to this section, 5 percent may be
used for USAID for management, oversight,
and technical support.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT
SEC. 7057. (a) AUTHORITY.—Up to $93,000,000
of the funds made available in title III of this
Act pursuant to or to carry out the provi-
sions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961, including funds appropriated under
the heading ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’, may be used by the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment to hire and employ individuals in
the United States and overseas on a limited
appointment basis pursuant to the authority
of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign Service
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3948 and 3949).
(b) RESTRICTIONS.—
(1) The number of individuals hired in any
fiscal year pursuant to the authority con-
tained in subsection (a) may not exceed 175.
(2) The authority to hire individuals con-
tained in subsection (a) shall expire on Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
(c) CONDITIONS.—The authority of sub-
section (a) should only be used to the extent
that an equivalent number of positions that
are filled by personal services contractors or
other non-direct hire employees of USAID,
who are compensated with funds appro-
priated to carry out part I of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, including funds appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, are
eliminated.
(d) PROGRAM ACCOUNT CHARGED.—The ac-
count charged for the cost of an individual
hired and employed under the authority of
this section shall be the account to which
the responsibilities of such individual pri-
marily relate: Provided, That funds made
available to carry out this section may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated by this Act in title II under the
heading ‘‘Operating Expenses’’.
(e) FOREIGN SERVICE LIMITED EXTEN-
SIONS.—Individuals hired and employed by
USAID, with funds made available in this
Act or prior Acts making appropriations for
the Department of State, foreign operations,
and related programs, pursuant to the au-
thority of section 309 of the Foreign Service
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3949), may be extended
for a period of up to 4 years notwithstanding
the limitation set forth in such section.
(f) DISASTER SURGE CAPACITY.—Funds ap-
propriated under title III of this Act to carry
out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, including funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and
Central Asia’’, may be used, in addition to
funds otherwise available for such purposes,
for the cost (including the support costs) of
individuals detailed to or employed by
USAID whose primary responsibility is to
carry out programs in response to natural
disasters, or man-made disasters subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
(g) PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTORS.—
Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out
chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part II, and
section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, and title II of the Food for Peace Act
(Public Law 83–480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may
be used by USAID to employ up to 40 per-
sonal services contractors in the United
States, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, for the purpose of providing direct,
interim support for new or expanded over-
seas programs and activities managed by the
agency until permanent direct hire per-
sonnel are hired and trained: Provided, That
not more than 15 of such contractors shall be
assigned to any bureau or office: Provided
further, That such funds appropriated to
carry out title II of the Food for Peace Act
(Public Law 83–480; 7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.), may
be made available only for personal services
contractors assigned to the Office of Food for
Peace.
(h) SMALL BUSINESS.—In entering into mul-
tiple award indefinite-quantity contracts
with funds appropriated by this Act, USAID
may provide an exception to the fair oppor-
tunity process for placing task orders under
such contracts when the order is placed with
any category of small or small disadvan-
taged business.
(i) SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE LIMITED AP-
POINTMENTS.—Individuals hired pursuant to
the authority provided by section 7059(o) of
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111–
117) may be assigned to or support programs
in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made
available in this Act and prior Acts making
appropriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs.
GLOBAL HEALTH ACTIVITIES
SEC. 7058. (a) IN GENERAL.—Funds appro-
priated by titles III and IV of this Act that
are made available for bilateral assistance
for child survival activities or disease pro-
grams including activities relating to re-
search on, and the prevention, treatment and
control of, HIV/AIDS may be made available
notwithstanding any other provision of law
except for provisions under the heading
‘‘Global Health Programs’’ and the United
States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuber-
culosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711;
22 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended: Provided,
That of the funds appropriated under title III
of this Act, not less than $575,000,000 should
be made available for family planning/repro-
ductive health, including in areas where pop-
ulation growth threatens biodiversity or en-
dangered species.
(b) GLOBAL FUND.—Of the funds appro-
priated by this Act that are available for a
contribution to the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global
Fund), 10 percent should be withheld from
obligation until the Secretary of State de-
termines and reports to the Committees on
Appropriations that the Global Fund is—
(1) maintaining and implementing a policy
of transparency, including the authority of
the Global Fund Office of the Inspector Gen-
eral (OIG) to publish OIG reports on a public
website;
(2) providing sufficient resources to main-
tain an independent OIG that—
(A) reports directly to the Board of the
Global Fund;
(B) maintains a mandate to conduct thor-
ough investigations and programmatic au-
dits, free from undue interference; and
(C) compiles regular, publicly published
audits and investigations of financial, pro-
grammatic, and reporting aspects of the
Global Fund, its grantees, recipients, sub-re-
cipients, and Local Fund Agents;
(3) effectively implementing and enforcing
policies and procedures which reflect best
practices for the protection of whistle-
blowers from retaliation, including best
practices for—
(A) protection against retaliation for inter-
nal and lawful public disclosures;
(B) legal burdens of proof;
(C) statutes of limitation for reporting re-
taliation;
(D) access to independent adjudicative bod-
ies, including external arbitration; and
(E) results that eliminate the effects of
proven retaliation:
Provided, That such withholding shall not be
in addition to funds that are withheld from
the Global Fund in fiscal year 2019 pursuant
to the application of any other provision
contained in this or any other Act.
(c) CONTAGIOUS INFECTIOUS DISEASE OUT-
BREAKS.—
(1) EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES.—If the Sec-
retary of State determines and reports to the
Committees on Appropriations that an inter-
national infectious disease outbreak is sus-
tained, severe, and is spreading internation-
ally, or that it is in the national interest to
respond to a Public Health Emergency of
International Concern, funds appropriated by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1119
January 23, 2019
this Act under the headings ‘‘Global Health
Programs’’, ‘‘Development Assistance’’,
‘‘International Disaster Assistance’’, ‘‘Com-
plex Crises Fund’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, ‘‘Assistance for
Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, ‘‘Migra-
tion and Refugee Assistance’’, and ‘‘Millen-
nium Challenge Corporation’’ may be made
available to combat such infectious disease
or public health emergency, and may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated under such headings for the pur-
poses of this paragraph.
(2) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available by this subsection
shall be subject to prior consultation with
the appropriate congressional committees,
and the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations.
(d) REPURPOSED FUNDS.—
(1) USES.—Of the unobligated balances
available under the heading ‘‘Bilateral Eco-
nomic Assistance’’ in title IX of the Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (di-
vision J of Public Law 113–235)—
(A) $38,000,000 shall be for programs to ac-
celerate the capabilities of targeted coun-
tries to prevent, detect, and respond to infec-
tious disease outbreaks; and
(B) $2,000,000 shall be made available for
the Emergency Reserve Fund established
pursuant to section 7058(c)(1) of the Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2017 (di-
vision J of Public Law 115–31) and shall be
made available under the same terms and
conditions of such section: Provided, That
the second proviso of such paragraph is
amended by striking ‘‘Secretary of State’’
and inserting in lieu thereof ‘‘Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development’’.
(2) CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Funds made available by this subsection
shall be subject to prior consultation with,
and the regular notification procedures of,
the Committees on Appropriations.
(3) TRANSFER BETWEEN ACCOUNTS.—Funds
made available pursuant to this subsection
under the headings ‘‘Global Health Pro-
grams’’ and ‘‘International Disaster Assist-
ance’’ may be transferred to, and merged
with, funds made available under such head-
ings: Provided, That such transfer authority
is in addition to any other transfer authority
provided by law.
(4) CLARIFICATION.—Funds made available
pursuant to this subsection are in addition
to funds otherwise made available for such
purposes.
(5) DESIGNATION.—The amounts repurposed
under this subsection are designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 and shall be available only if the
President subsequently so designates all
such amounts and transmits such designa-
tions to the Congress.
GENDER EQUALITY
SEC. 7059. (a) GENDER EQUALITY.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act shall be made avail-
able to promote gender equality in United
States Government diplomatic and develop-
ment efforts by raising the status, increasing
the participation, and protecting the rights
of women and girls worldwide.
(b) WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by title III of this Act, not less
than $50,000,000 shall be made available for
programs specifically designed to increase
leadership opportunities for women in coun-
tries where women and girls suffer discrimi-
nation due to law, policy, or practice, by
strengthening protections for women’s polit-
ical status, expanding women’s participation
in political parties and elections, and in-
creasing women’s opportunities for leader-
ship positions in the public and private sec-
tors at the local, provincial, and national
levels.
(c) GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE.—
(1)(A) Of the funds appropriated under ti-
tles III and IV of this Act, not less than
$150,000,000 shall be made available to imple-
ment a multi-year strategy to prevent and
respond to gender-based violence in coun-
tries where it is common in conflict and non-
conflict settings.
(B) Funds appropriated under titles III and
IV of this Act that are available to train for-
eign police, judicial, and military personnel,
including for international peacekeeping op-
erations, shall address, where appropriate,
prevention and response to gender-based vio-
lence and trafficking in persons, and shall
promote the integration of women into the
police and other security forces.
(2) Department of State and United States
Agency for International Development gen-
der programs shall incorporate coordinated
efforts to combat a variety of forms of gen-
der-based violence, including child marriage,
rape, female genital cutting and mutilation,
and domestic violence, among other forms of
gender-based violence in conflict and non-
conflict settings.
(d) WOMEN, PEACE, AND SECURITY.—Funds
appropriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Development Assistance’’, ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’, ‘‘Assistance for Europe, Eurasia
and Central Asia’’, and ‘‘International Nar-
cotics Control and Law Enforcement’’ should
be made available to support a multi-year
strategy to expand, and improve coordina-
tion of, United States Government efforts to
empower women as equal partners in conflict
prevention, peace building, transitional
processes, and reconstruction efforts in
countries affected by conflict or in political
transition, and to ensure the equitable provi-
sion of relief and recovery assistance to
women and girls.
(e) WOMEN AND GIRLS AT RISK FROM EXTRE-
MISM.—Of the funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, not less than $15,000,000 shall be made
available to support women and girls who
are at risk from extremism and conflict, and
for the activities described in section
7059(e)(1) of the Department of State, For-
eign Operations, and Related Programs Ap-
propriations Act, 2018 (division K of Public
Law 115–141): Provided, That such funds are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able by this Act for such purposes, and shall
be made available following consultation
with, and the regular notification procedures
of, the Committees on Appropriations.
SECTOR ALLOCATIONS
SEC. 7060. (a) BASIC EDUCATION AND HIGHER
EDUCATION.—
(1) BASIC EDUCATION.—
(A) Of the funds appropriated under title
III of this Act, not less than $800,000,000 shall
be made available for assistance for basic
education, and such funds may be made
available notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law that restricts assistance to for-
eign countries: Provided, That such funds
shall also be used for secondary education
activities: Provided further, That notifica-
tions submitted for basic education pro-
grams should, as applicable, describe activi-
ties conducted in support of non-state
schools: Provided further, That the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, following consulta-
tion with the Committees on Appropriations,
may reprogram such funds between coun-
tries.
(B) Not later than 30 days after enactment
of this Act, the USAID Administrator shall
report to the Committees on Appropriations
on the status of cumulative unobligated bal-
ances and obligated, but unexpended, bal-
ances in each country where USAID provides
basic education assistance and such report
shall also include details on the types of con-
tracts and grants provided and the goals and
objectives of such assistance: Provided, That
the USAID Administrator shall update such
report on a quarterly basis until September
30, 2020: Provided further, That if the USAID
Administrator determines that any unobli-
gated balances of funds specifically des-
ignated for assistance for basic education in
prior Acts making appropriations for the De-
partment of State, foreign operations, and
related programs are in excess of the absorp-
tive capacity of recipient countries, such
funds may be made available for other pro-
grams authorized under chapter 1 of part I of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, notwith-
standing such funding designation: Provided
further, That the authority of the previous
proviso shall be subject to prior consultation
with, and the regular notification procedures
of, the Committees on Appropriations.
(C) Of the funds appropriated under title
III of this Act for assistance for basic edu-
cation programs, not less than $90,000,000
shall be made available for a contribution to
multilateral partnerships that support edu-
cation.
(2) HIGHER EDUCATION.—Of the funds appro-
priated by title III of this Act, not less than
$235,000,000 shall be made available for assist-
ance for higher education: Provided, That
such funds may be made available notwith-
standing any other provision of law that re-
stricts assistance to foreign countries, and
shall be subject to the regular notification
procedures of the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That of such amount,
not less than $35,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for human and institutional capacity
building partnerships between higher edu-
cation institutions in the United States and
developing countries, of which not less than
$15,000,000 shall be for new partnerships: Pro-
vided further, That not later than 45 days
after enactment of this Act, the USAID Ad-
ministrator shall consult with the Commit-
tees on Appropriations on the proposed uses
of funds for such partnerships.
(b) DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘Development Assistance’’, not less than
$12,000,000 shall be made available for cooper-
ative development programs of USAID, and
not less than $30,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for the American Schools and Hospitals
Abroad program: Provided, That any sub-
stantive modifications from the prior fiscal
year to the evaluation methodology or cri-
teria for selecting grantees for the American
Schools and Hospitals Abroad program shall
be subject to prior consultation with the
Committees on Appropriations.
(c) ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMS.—
(1) AUTHORITY AND NOTIFICATION.—
(A) Funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out the provisions of sections 103
through 106, and chapter 4 of part II, of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used,
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
except for the provisions of this subsection,
to support environment programs.
(B) Funds made available pursuant to this
subsection shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
(C) None of the funds in this Act are appro-
priated or otherwise made available for a
contribution, grant, or any other payment
for the Green Climate Fund.
(2) CONSERVATION PROGRAMS AND LIMITA-
TIONS.—
(A) Of the funds appropriated under title
III of this Act, not less than $285,000,000 shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1120 January 23, 2019
be made available for biodiversity conserva-
tion programs.
(B) Not less than $90,664,000 of the funds ap-
propriated under titles III and IV of this Act
shall be made available to combat the
transnational threat of wildlife poaching and
trafficking.
(C) None of the funds appropriated under
title IV of this Act may be made available
for training or other assistance for any mili-
tary unit or personnel that the Secretary of
State determines has been credibly alleged
to have participated in wildlife poaching or
trafficking, unless the Secretary reports to
the appropriate congressional committees
that to do so is in the national security in-
terest of the United States.
(D) Funds appropriated by this Act for bio-
diversity programs shall not be used to sup-
port the expansion of industrial scale logging
or any other industrial scale extractive ac-
tivity into areas that were primary/intact
tropical forests as of December 30, 2013, and
the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
the United States executive directors of each
international financial institutions (IFI) to
vote against any financing of any such activ-
ity.
(3) LARGE DAMS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall instruct the United States ex-
ecutive director of each IFI that it is the pol-
icy of the United States to vote in relation
to any loan, grant, strategy, or policy of
such institution to support the construction
of any large dam consistent with the criteria
set forth in Senate Report 114–79, while also
considering whether the project involves im-
portant foreign policy objectives.
(4) SUSTAINABLE LANDSCAPES.—Of the funds
appropriated under title III of this Act, not
less than $125,000,000 shall be made available
for sustainable landscapes programs.
(d) FOOD SECURITY AND AGRICULTURAL DE-
VELOPMENT.—Of the funds appropriated by
title III of this Act, not less than
$1,000,600,000 shall be made available for food
security and agricultural development pro-
grams to carry out the purposes of the Glob-
al Food Security Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–
195), of which not less than $315,960,000 shall
be made available for the Bureau for Food
Security, USAID, including not less than
$55,000,000 for the Feed the Future Innova-
tion Labs: Provided, That funds may be made
available for a contribution as authorized by
section 3202 of the Food, Conservation, and
Energy Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–246), as
amended by section 3206 of the Agricultural
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–79).
(e) MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISES.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act, not less
than $265,000,000 shall be made available to
support the development of, and access to fi-
nancing for, micro- and small enterprises
that benefit the poor, especially women.
(f) PROGRAMS TO COMBAT TRAFFICKING IN
PERSONS.—Of the funds appropriated by this
Act under the headings ‘‘Development As-
sistance’’, ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘As-
sistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central
Asia’’, and ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’, not less than
$67,000,000 shall be made available for activi-
ties to combat trafficking in persons inter-
nationally, of which not less than $45,000,000
shall be from funds made available under the
heading ‘‘International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement’’: Provided, That funds
appropriated by this Act that are made
available for programs to end modern slav-
ery shall be in addition to funds made avail-
able by this subsection to combat trafficking
in persons.
(g) RECONCILIATION PROGRAMS.—Funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the headings
‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ and ‘‘Develop-
ment Assistance’’ shall be made available to
support people-to-people reconciliation pro-
grams which bring together individuals of
different ethnic, religious, and political
backgrounds from areas of civil strife and
war: Provided, That the USAID Adminis-
trator shall consult with the Committees on
Appropriations, prior to the initial obliga-
tion of funds, on the uses of such funds, and
such funds shall be subject to the regular no-
tification procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations: Provided further, That to the
maximum extent practicable, such funds
shall be matched by sources other than the
United States Government: Provided further,
That such funds shall be administered by the
Office of Conflict Management and Mitiga-
tion, USAID.
(h) WATER AND SANITATION.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act, not less than
$435,000,000 shall be made available for water
supply and sanitation projects pursuant to
section 136 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, of which not less than $195,000,000 shall
be for programs in sub-Saharan Africa, and
of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be
made available to support initiatives by
local communities in developing countries to
build and maintain safe latrines.
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
SEC. 7061. (a) NOTIFICATION.—None of the
funds made available under titles III through
VI of this Act may be made available for En-
terprise Funds unless the appropriate con-
gressional committees are notified at least
15 days in advance.
(b) DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS PLAN.—Prior
to the distribution of any assets resulting
from any liquidation, dissolution, or winding
up of an Enterprise Fund, in whole or in
part, the President shall submit to the ap-
propriate congressional committees a plan
for the distribution of the assets of the En-
terprise Fund.
(c) TRANSITION OR OPERATING PLAN.—Prior
to a transition to and operation of any pri-
vate equity fund or other parallel invest-
ment fund under an existing Enterprise
Fund, the President shall submit such tran-
sition or operating plan to the appropriate
congressional committees.
IMPACT ON JOBS IN THE UNITED STATES
SEC. 7062. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available under titles III
through VI of this Act may be obligated or
expended to provide—
(1) any financial incentive to a business en-
terprise currently located in the United
States for the purpose of inducing such an
enterprise to relocate outside the United
States if such incentive or inducement is
likely to reduce the number of employees of
such business enterprise in the United States
because United States production is being re-
placed by such enterprise outside the United
States;
(2) assistance for any program, project, or
activity that contributes to the violation of
internationally recognized workers’ rights,
as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade Act
of 1974, of workers in the recipient country,
including any designated zone or area in that
country: Provided, That the application of
section 507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act should
be commensurate with the level of develop-
ment of the recipient country and sector,
and shall not preclude assistance for the in-
formal sector in such country, micro and
small-scale enterprise, and smallholder agri-
culture;
(3) any assistance to an entity outside the
United States if such assistance is for the
purpose of directly relocating or transferring
jobs from the United States to other coun-
tries and adversely impacts the labor force
in the United States; or
(4) for the enforcement of any rule, regula-
tion, policy, or guidelines implemented pur-
suant to—
(A) the third proviso of subsection 7079(b)
of the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111–
117);
(B) the modification proposed by the Over-
seas Private Investment Corporation in No-
vember 2013 to the Corporation’s Environ-
mental and Social Policy Statement relating
to coal; or
(C) the Supplemental Guidelines for High
Carbon Intensity Projects approved by the
Export-Import Bank of the United States on
December 12, 2013,
when enforcement of such rule, regulation,
policy, or guidelines would prohibit, or have
the effect of prohibiting, any coal-fired or
other power-generation project the purpose
of which is to: (i) provide affordable elec-
tricity in International Development Asso-
ciation (IDA)-eligible countries and IDA-
blend countries; and (ii) increase exports of
goods and services from the United States or
prevent the loss of jobs from the United
States.
OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
SEC. 7063. (a) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—When-
ever the President determines that it is in
furtherance of the purposes of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, up to a total of
$20,000,000 of the funds appropriated under
title III of this Act may be transferred to,
and merged with, funds appropriated by this
Act for the Overseas Private Investment Cor-
poration Program Account, to be subject to
the terms and conditions of that account:
Provided, That such funds shall not be avail-
able for administrative expenses of the Over-
seas Private Investment Corporation: Pro-
vided further, That designated funding levels
in this Act shall not be transferred pursuant
to this section: Provided further, That the ex-
ercise of such authority shall be subject to
the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
(b) AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding section
235(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961, the authority of subsections (a) through
(c) of section 234 of such Act shall remain in
effect until September 30, 2019.
INSPECTORS GENERAL
SEC. 7064. (a) PROHIBITION ON USE OF
FUNDS.—None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to deny an Inspector
General funded under this Act timely access
to any records, documents, or other mate-
rials available to the department or agency
of the United States Government over which
such Inspector General has responsibilities
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.), or to prevent or impede the ac-
cess of such Inspector General to such
records, documents, or other materials,
under any provision of law, except a provi-
sion of law that expressly refers to such In-
spector General and expressly limits the
right of access of such Inspector General.
(b) TIMELY ACCESS.—A department or agen-
cy of the United States Government covered
by this section shall provide its Inspector
General access to all records, documents,
and other materials in a timely manner.
(c) COMPLIANCE.—Each Inspector General
covered by this section shall ensure compli-
ance with statutory limitations on disclo-
sure relevant to the information provided by
the department or agency over which that
Inspector General has responsibilities under
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.).
(d) REPORT.—Each Inspector General cov-
ered by this section shall report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations within 5 calendar
days of any failure by any department or
agency of the United States Government to
provide its Inspector General access to all re-
quested records, documents, and other mate-
rials.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1121
January 23, 2019
GLOBAL INTERNET FREEDOM
SEC. 7065. (a) FUNDING.—Of the funds avail-
able for obligation during fiscal year 2019
under the headings ‘‘International Broad-
casting Operations’’, ‘‘Economic Support
Fund’’, ‘‘Democracy Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia’’, not
less than $60,500,000 shall be made available
for programs to promote Internet freedom
globally: Provided, That such programs shall
be prioritized for countries whose govern-
ments restrict freedom of expression on the
Internet, and that are important to the na-
tional interest of the United States: Provided
further, That funds made available pursuant
to this section shall be matched, to the max-
imum extent practicable, by sources other
than the United States Government, includ-
ing from the private sector.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) Funds appropriated by this Act under
the headings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’,
‘‘Democracy Fund’’, and ‘‘Assistance for Eu-
rope, Eurasia and Central Asia’’ that are
made available pursuant to subsection (a)
shall be—
(A) coordinated with other democracy pro-
grams funded by this Act under such head-
ings, and shall be incorporated into country
assistance and democracy promotion strate-
gies, as appropriate;
(B) for programs to implement the May
2011, International Strategy for Cyberspace;
the Department of State International
Cyberspace Policy Strategy required by sec-
tion 402 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2015 (di-
vision N of Public Law 114–113); and the com-
prehensive strategy to promote Internet
freedom and access to information in Iran, as
required by section 414 of the Iran Threat
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of
2012 (22 U.S.C. 8754);
(C) made available for programs that sup-
port the efforts of civil society to counter
the development of repressive Internet-re-
lated laws and regulations, including coun-
tering threats to Internet freedom at inter-
national organizations; to combat violence
against bloggers and other users; and to en-
hance digital security training and capacity
building for democracy activists;
(D) made available for research of key
threats to Internet freedom; the continued
development of technologies that provide or
enhance access to the Internet, including cir-
cumvention tools that bypass Internet
blocking, filtering, and other censorship
techniques used by authoritarian govern-
ments; and maintenance of the technological
advantage of the United States Government
over such censorship techniques: Provided,
That the Secretary of State, in consultation
with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the
Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG),
shall coordinate any such research and de-
velopment programs with other relevant
United States Government departments and
agencies in order to share information, tech-
nologies, and best practices, and to assess
the effectiveness of such technologies; and
(E) made available only after the Assistant
Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights,
and Labor, Department of State, concurs
that such funds are allocated consistent
with—
(i) the strategies referenced in subpara-
graph (B) of this paragraph;
(ii) best practices regarding security for,
and oversight of, Internet freedom programs;
and
(iii) sufficient resources and support for
the development and maintenance of anti-
censorship technology and tools.
(2) Funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading ‘‘International Broadcasting Op-
erations’’ that are made available pursuant
to subsection (a) shall be—
(A) made available only for tools and tech-
niques to securely develop and distribute
BBG digital content; facilitate audience ac-
cess to such content on websites that are
censored; coordinate the distribution of BBG
digital content to targeted regional audi-
ences; and to promote and distribute such
tools and techniques, including digital secu-
rity techniques;
(B) coordinated with programs funded by
this Act under the heading ‘‘International
Broadcasting Operations’’, and shall be in-
corporated into country broadcasting strate-
gies, as appropriate;
(C) coordinated by the BBG CEO to provide
Internet circumvention tools and techniques
for audiences in countries that are strategic
priorities for the BBG and in a manner con-
sistent with the BBG Internet freedom strat-
egy; and
(D) made available for the research and de-
velopment of new tools or techniques author-
ized in paragraph (A) only after the BBG
CEO, in consultation with the Secretary of
State and other relevant United States Gov-
ernment departments and agencies, evalu-
ates the risks and benefits of such new tools
or techniques, and establishes safeguards to
minimize the use of such new tools or tech-
niques for illicit purposes.
(c) COORDINATION AND SPEND PLANS.—After
consultation among the relevant agency
heads to coordinate and de-conflict planned
activities, but not later than 90 days after
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State and the BBG CEO shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations spend plans
for funds made available by this Act for pro-
grams to promote Internet freedom globally,
which shall include a description of safe-
guards established by relevant agencies to
ensure that such programs are not used for
illicit purposes: Provided, That the Depart-
ment of State spend plan shall include fund-
ing for all such programs for all relevant De-
partment of State and the United States
Agency for International Development of-
fices and bureaus.
(d) SECURITY AUDITS.—Funds made avail-
able pursuant to this section to promote
Internet freedom globally may only be made
available to support technologies that under-
go comprehensive security audits conducted
by the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights,
and Labor, Department of State to ensure
that such technology is secure and has not
been compromised in a manner detrimental
to the interest of the United States or to in-
dividuals and organizations benefiting from
programs supported by such funds: Provided,
That the security auditing procedures used
by such Bureau shall be reviewed and up-
dated periodically to reflect current industry
security standards.
(e) SURGE.—Of the funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Economic Sup-
port Fund’’, up to $2,500,000 may be made
available to surge Internet freedom pro-
grams in closed societies if the Secretary of
State determines and reports to the appro-
priate congressional committees that such
use of funds is in the national interest: Pro-
vided, That such funds are in addition to
amounts made available for such purposes:
Provided further, That such funds may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘International Broadcasting Operations’’ fol-
lowing consultation with, and the regular
notification procedures of, the Committees
on Appropriations.
MULTI-YEAR PLEDGES
SEC. 7066. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used to make any pledge
for future year funding for any multilateral
or bilateral program funded in titles III
through VI of this Act unless such pledge
was—
(1) previously justified, including the pro-
jected future year costs, in a congressional
budget justification;
(2) included in an Act making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs or pre-
viously authorized by an Act of Congress;
(3) notified in accordance with the regular
notification procedures of the Committees
on Appropriations, including the projected
future year costs; or
(4) the subject of prior consultation with
the Committees on Appropriations and such
consultation was conducted at least 7 days in
advance of the pledge.
TORTURE AND OTHER CRUEL, INHUMAN, OR
DEGRADING TREATMENT OR PUNISHMENT
SEC. 7067. (a) LIMITATION.—None of the
funds made available by this Act may be
used to support or justify the use of torture
and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading
treatment or punishment by any official or
contract employee of the United States Gov-
ernment.
(b) ASSISTANCE.—Funds appropriated under
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made
available, notwithstanding section 660 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and following
consultation with the Committees on Appro-
priations, for assistance to eliminate torture
and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading
treatment or punishment by foreign police,
military or other security forces in countries
receiving assistance from funds appropriated
by this Act.
EXTRADITION
SEC. 7068. (a) LIMITATION.—None of the
funds appropriated in this Act may be used
to provide assistance (other than funds pro-
vided under the headings ‘‘International Dis-
aster Assistance’’, ‘‘Complex Crises Fund’’,
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’, ‘‘Migration and Refugee As-
sistance’’, ‘‘United States Emergency Ref-
ugee and Migration Assistance Fund’’, and
‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining
and Related Assistance’’) for the central gov-
ernment of a country which has notified the
Department of State of its refusal to extra-
dite to the United States any individual in-
dicted for a criminal offense for which the
maximum penalty is life imprisonment with-
out the possibility of parole or for killing a
law enforcement officer, as specified in a
United States extradition request.
(b) CLARIFICATION.—Subsection (a) shall
only apply to the central government of a
country with which the United States main-
tains diplomatic relations and with which
the United States has an extradition treaty
and the government of that country is in
violation of the terms and conditions of the
treaty.
(c) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the restriction in subsection (a) on a
case-by-case basis if the Secretary certifies
to the Committees on Appropriations that
such waiver is important to the national in-
terest of the United States.
WAR CRIMES TRIBUNALS
SEC. 7069. If the President determines that
doing so will contribute to a just resolution
of charges regarding genocide or other viola-
tions of international humanitarian law, the
President may direct a drawdown pursuant
to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 of up to $30,000,000 of commodities
and services for the United Nations War
Crimes Tribunal established with regard to
the former Yugoslavia by the United Nations
Security Council or such other tribunals or
commissions as the Council may establish or
authorize to deal with such violations, with-
out regard to the ceiling limitation con-
tained in paragraph (2) thereof: Provided,
That the determination required under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1122 January 23, 2019
section shall be in lieu of any determinations
otherwise required under section 552(c): Pro-
vided further, That funds made available pur-
suant to this section shall be made available
subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
BUDGET DOCUMENTS
SEC. 7070. (a) OPERATING PLANS.—Not later
than 45 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, each department, agency, or orga-
nization funded in titles I, II, and VI of this
Act, and the Department of the Treasury and
Independent Agencies funded in title III of
this Act, including the Inter-American Foun-
dation and the United States African Devel-
opment Foundation, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations an operating
plan for funds appropriated to such depart-
ment, agency, or organization in such titles
of this Act, or funds otherwise available for
obligation in fiscal year 2019, that provides
details of the uses of such funds at the pro-
gram, project, and activity level: Provided,
That such plans shall include, as applicable,
a comparison between the congressional
budget justification funding levels, the most
recent congressional directives or approved
funding levels, and the funding levels pro-
posed by the department or agency; and a
clear, concise, and informative description/
justification: Provided further, That if such
department, agency, or organization receives
an additional amount under the same head-
ing in title VIII of this Act, operating plans
required by this subsection shall include con-
solidated information on all such funds: Pro-
vided further, That operating plans that in-
clude changes in levels of funding for pro-
grams, projects, and activities specified in
the congressional budget justification, in
this Act, or amounts specifically designated
in the respective tables included in the ex-
planatory statement described in section 4
(in the matter preceding division A of this
consolidated Act), as applicable, shall be
subject to the notification and reprogram-
ming requirements of section 7015 of this
Act.
(b) SPEND PLANS.—
(1) Prior to the initial obligation of funds
but not later than 120 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State or Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, as appropriate,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations a spend plan for funds made avail-
able by this Act, for—
(A) assistance for Afghanistan, Iraq, Leb-
anon, Pakistan, the West Bank and Gaza, Co-
lombia, and countries in Central America;
(B) assistance made available pursuant to
section 7047(d) of this Act to counter Russian
influence and aggression, except that such
plan shall be on a country-by-country basis;
(C) assistance made available pursuant to
section 7059 of this Act;
(D) the Indo-Pacific Strategy;
(E) democracy programs, Power Africa,
programs to support section 7071(a) of this
Act, and sectors enumerated in subsections
(a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of section 7060
of this Act; and
(F) funds provided under the heading
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’ for International Organized
Crime and for Cybercrime and Intellectual
Property Rights: Provided, That the spend
plans shall include bilateral and global pro-
grams funded under such heading along with
a brief description of the activities planned
for each country.
(2) Not later than 45 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations a detailed spend plan for funds
made available by this Act under the head-
ing ‘‘Department of the Treasury, Inter-
national Affairs Technical Assistance’’ in
title III.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), up to 10
percent of the funds contained in a spend
plan required by this subsection may be obli-
gated prior to the submission of such spend
plan if the Secretary of State or the USAID
Administrator, as appropriate, determines
that the obligation of such funds is nec-
essary to avoid significant programmatic
disruption: Provided, That not less than
seven days prior to such obligation, the Sec-
retary or Administrator, as appropriate,
shall consult with the Committees on Appro-
priations on the justification for such obliga-
tion and the proposed uses of such funds.
(c) SPENDING REPORT.—Not later than 45
days after enactment of this Act, the USAID
Administrator shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations a detailed report on
spending of funds made available during fis-
cal year 2018 under the heading ‘‘Develop-
ment Credit Authority’’.
(d) CLARIFICATION.—The spend plans ref-
erenced in subsection (b) shall not be consid-
ered as meeting the notification require-
ments in this Act or under section 634A of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
(e) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET JUSTIFICA-
TION.—
(1) The congressional budget justification
for Department of State operations and for-
eign operations shall be provided to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations concurrent with
the date of submission of the President’s
budget for fiscal year 2020: Provided, That the
appendices for such justification shall be
provided to the Committees on Appropria-
tions not later than 10 calendar days there-
after.
(2) The Secretary of State and the USAID
Administrator shall include in the congres-
sional budget justification a detailed jus-
tification for multi-year availability for any
funds requested under the headings ‘‘Diplo-
matic Programs’’ and ‘‘Operating Expenses’’.
STABILIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT IN REGIONS
IMPACTED BY EXTREMISM AND CONFLICT
SEC. 7071. (a) COUNTERING FOREIGN FIGHT-
ERS AND EXTREMIST ORGANIZATIONS.—Funds
appropriated under titles III and IV of this
Act shall be made available for programs and
activities to counter and defeat violent ex-
tremism and foreign fighters abroad, con-
sistent with the strategy required by section
7073(a)(1) of the Department of State, For-
eign Operations, and Related Programs Ap-
propriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public
Law 115–31): Provided, That the Secretary of
State shall ensure such programs are coordi-
nated with and complement the efforts of
other United States Government agencies
and international partners, and that infor-
mation gained through the conduct of such
programs is shared in a timely manner with
relevant departments and agencies of the
United States Government, other inter-
national partners, and the appropriate con-
gressional committees, as appropriate.
(b) RELIEF AND RECOVERY FUND.—
(1) FUNDS AND TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—Of
the funds appropriated by this Act under the
headings ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, ‘‘Inter-
national Narcotics Control and Law Enforce-
ment’’, ‘‘Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism,
Demining and Related Programs’’, ‘‘Peace-
keeping Operations’’, and ‘‘Foreign Military
Financing Program’’, not less than
$200,000,000 shall be made available for the
Relief and Recovery Fund for assistance for
areas liberated or at risk from, or under the
control of, the Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria, other terrorist organizations, or vio-
lent extremist organizations, including for
stabilization assistance for vulnerable ethnic
and religious minority communities affected
by conflict: Provided, That such funds are in
addition to amounts otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes and to amounts spe-
cifically designated in this Act or in the ex-
planatory statement described in section 4
(in the matter preceding division A of this
consolidated Act) for assistance for coun-
tries: Provided further, That such funds ap-
propriated under such headings may be
transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated under such headings: Provided fur-
ther, That such transfer authority is in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority provided
by this Act or any other Act, and is subject
to the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
(2) TRANSITIONAL JUSTICE.—Of the funds ap-
propriated by this Act under the heading
‘‘International Narcotics Control and Law
Enforcement’’ that are made available for
the Relief and Recovery Fund, not less than
$5,000,000 shall be made available for pro-
grams to promote accountability in Iraq and
Syria for genocide, crimes against humanity,
and war crimes, which shall be in addition to
any other funds made available by this Act
for such purposes: Provided, That such pro-
grams shall include components to develop
local investigative and judicial skills, and to
collect and preserve evidence and maintain
the chain of custody of evidence, including
for use in prosecutions: Provided further,
That such funds shall be administered by the
Special Coordinator for the Office of Global
Criminal Justice, Department of State: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available by
this paragraph shall only be made available
on an open and competitive basis.
(3) FUNDS FOR JORDAN AND TUNISIA.—Of the
funds appropriated in prior Acts making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs
that are made available for the Relief and
Recovery Fund, not less than the following
amounts shall be made available—
(A) $50,000,000 for assistance for Jordan;
and
(B) $50,000,000 for assistance for Tunisia:
Provided, That such funds are in addition to
amounts otherwise made available by this
Act for such countries.
(c) PREVENTION OF FAILED STATES THROUGH
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.—Of the funds
appropriated by this Act and prior Acts mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams that are made available for the Relief
and Recovery Fund, up to $10,000,000 shall be
made available to implement the program
described under this section in the explana-
tory statement described in section 4 (in the
matter preceding division A of this consoli-
dated Act), which shall be apportioned to
USAID not later than 90 days after enact-
ment of this Act: Provided, That such funds
shall be in addition to funds made available
for bilateral assistance for such countries,
and shall remain available until expended:
Provided further, That in addition to funds
otherwise made available for such purposes,
up to $750,000 of the funds made available by
this paragraph may be used by USAID for ad-
ministrative expenses related to the design
and implementation of such program.
(d) COUNTER VIOLENT EXTREMISM IN ASIA.—
Of the funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’, not
less than $2,500,000 shall be made available
for programs to counter violent extremism
in Asia, including within the Buddhist com-
munity: Provided, That such funds shall be
administered by the Mission Director of the
Regional Development Mission for Asia,
USAID: Provided further, That such funds are
in addition to funds otherwise made avail-
able for such purposes.
(e) FRAGILE STATES AND EXTREMISM.—
Funds appropriated by this Act shall be
made available for the purposes of section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1123
January 23, 2019
7080 of the Department of State, Foreign Op-
erations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2017 (division J of Public Law 115–
31), subject to the regular notification proce-
dures of the Committees on Appropriations.
(f) GLOBAL CONCESSIONAL FINANCING FACIL-
ITY.—Funds appropriated by this Act under
the heading ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ may
be made available for the Global
Concessional Financing Facility of the
World Bank to provide financing to support
refugees and host communities: Provided,
That such funds shall be in addition to funds
made available for bilateral assistance in the
report required by section 653(a) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961, and may only be
made available subject to prior consultation
with the Committees on Appropriations.
UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND
SEC. 7072. (a) CONTRIBUTION.—Of the funds
made available under the heading ‘‘Inter-
national Organizations and Programs’’ in
this Act for fiscal year 2019, $32,500,000 shall
be made available for the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA).
(b) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Funds appro-
priated by this Act for UNFPA, that are not
made available for UNFPA because of the op-
eration of any provision of law, shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Global Health Programs’’
account and shall be made available for fam-
ily planning, maternal, and reproductive
health activities, subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations.
(c) PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS IN
CHINA.—None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used by UNFPA for a coun-
try program in the People’s Republic of
China.
(d) CONDITIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF
FUNDS.—Funds made available by this Act
for UNFPA may not be made available un-
less—
(1) UNFPA maintains funds made available
by this Act in an account separate from
other accounts of UNFPA and does not com-
mingle such funds with other sums; and
(2) UNFPA does not fund abortions.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS AND DOLLAR-FOR-
DOLLAR WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.—
(1) Not later than 4 months after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations indicating the
amount of funds that UNFPA is budgeting
for the year in which the report is submitted
for a country program in the People’s Repub-
lic of China.
(2) If a report under paragraph (1) indicates
that UNFPA plans to spend funds for a coun-
try program in the People’s Republic of
China in the year covered by the report, then
the amount of such funds UNFPA plans to
spend in the People’s Republic of China shall
be deducted from the funds made available
to UNFPA after March 1 for obligation for
the remainder of the fiscal year in which the
report is submitted.
REORGANIZATION AND INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
SEC. 7073. (a) OVERSIGHT.—
(1) PRIOR CONSULTATION AND NOTIFICA-
TION.—Funds appropriated by this Act, prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, or any other Act may not be
used to implement a reorganization, rede-
sign, or other plan described in paragraph (2)
by the Department of State, the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, or any other Federal department,
agency, or organization funded by this Act
without prior consultation by the head of
such department, agency, or organization
with the appropriate congressional commit-
tees: Provided, That such funds shall be sub-
ject to the regular notification procedures of
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided
further, That any such notification sub-
mitted to such Committees shall include a
detailed justification for any proposed ac-
tion, including the information specified
under this section in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 4 (in the matter
preceding division A of this consolidated
Act): Provided further, That congressional no-
tifications submitted during the previous fis-
cal year pursuant to section 7081 of the De-
partment of State, Foreign Operations, and
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2018
(division K of Public Law 115–141) may be
deemed to meet the notification require-
ments of this section.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF ACTIVITIES.—Pursuant
to paragraph (1), a reorganization, redesign,
or other plan shall include any action to—
(A) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or
downsize covered departments, agencies, or
organizations, including bureaus and offices
within or between such departments, agen-
cies, or organizations, including the transfer
to other agencies of the authorities and re-
sponsibilities of such bureaus and offices;
(B) expand, eliminate, consolidate, or
downsize the United States official presence
overseas including at bilateral, regional, and
multilateral diplomatic facilities and other
platforms; or
(C) expand or reduce the size of the Civil
Service, Foreign Service, eligible family
member, and locally employed staff work-
force of the Department of State and USAID
from the on-board levels as of December 31,
2017.
(b) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITA-
TIONS.—
(1) PERSONNEL LEVELS.—Funds made avail-
able by this Act are made available to sup-
port the agency-wide on-board Foreign Serv-
ice and Civil Service staff levels of the De-
partment of State and USAID at not less
than the levels as of December 31, 2017.
(2) REPORTS.—
(A) Not later than 30 days after enactment
of this Act, and quarterly thereafter until
September 30, 2020, the USAID Adminis-
trator shall submit a report to the appro-
priate congressional committees on the sta-
tus of USAID reorganization as described in
the explanatory statement described in sec-
tion 4 (in the matter preceding division A of
this consolidated Act): Provided, That the
USAID Administrator shall consult with the
appropriate congressional committees on the
format of such reports.
(B) Not later than 60 days after enactment
of this Act and every 60 days thereafter until
September 30, 2020, the Secretary of State, in
the case of the Department of State, and the
USAID Administrator, in the case of USAID,
shall report to the appropriate congressional
committees on the on-board personnel levels,
hiring, and attrition of the Civil Service,
Foreign Service, eligible family member, and
locally employed staff workforce of the De-
partment of State and USAID, as appro-
priate, on an operating unit-by-operating
unit basis: Provided, That such report shall
also include a hiring plan, including
timelines, for maintaining the agency-wide,
on-board Foreign Service and Civil Service
at not less than the December 31, 2017 level
through fiscal year 2019.
(3) BUREAU OF POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND
MIGRATION, DEPARTMENT OF STATE.—None of
the funds appropriated by this Act, prior
Acts making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State, foreign operations, and re-
lated programs, or any other Act may be
used to downsize, downgrade, consolidate,
close, move, or relocate the Bureau of Popu-
lation, Refugees, and Migration, Department
of State, or any activities of such Bureau, to
another Federal agency.
(4) ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS.—Funds made
available by this Act—
(A) under the heading ‘‘Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance’’ shall be administered by
the Assistant Secretary for Population, Ref-
ugees, and Migration, Department of State,
and this responsibility shall not be dele-
gated; and
(B) that are made available for the Office
of Global Women’s Issues shall be adminis-
tered by the United States Ambassador-at-
Large for Global Women’s Issues, Depart-
ment of State, and this responsibility shall
not be delegated.
(5) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM.—
(A) None of the funds appropriated in title
I of this Act under the heading ‘‘Administra-
tion of Foreign Affairs’’ may be made avail-
able for a new major information technology
(IT) investment without the concurrence of
the Chief Information Officer, Department of
State.
(B) In complying with the requirements of
this paragraph, the Chief Information Offi-
cer, Department of State, shall consider
whether a new major information technology
investment—
(i) is consistent with the Department In-
formation Technology Strategic Plan;
(ii) maintains consolidated control over
enterprise IT functions or improves oper-
ational maintenance;
(iii) improves Department of State resil-
iency to a cyber-attack;
(iv) reduces Department of State IT costs
over the long-term; and
(v) is in accordance with the Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation (FAR), including FAR
Part 6 regarding competition requirements.
(6) TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION FUND LIMI-
TATION.—
(A) None of the funds made available by
this Act and prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs may be
used by an agency to submit a project pro-
posal to the Technology Modernization
Board for funding from the Technology Mod-
ernization Fund unless, not later than 15
days in advance of submitting the project
proposal to the Board, the head of the agen-
cy—
(i) notifies the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the proposed submission of the
project proposal; and
(ii) submits to the Committees on Appro-
priations a copy of the project proposal.
(B) None of the funds made available by
this Act and prior Acts making appropria-
tions for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs may be
used by an agency to carry out a project that
is approved by the Board unless the head of
the agency—
(i) submits to the Committees on Appro-
priations a copy of the approved project pro-
posal, including the terms of reimbursement
of funding received for the project; and
(ii) agrees to submit to the Committees on
Appropriations a copy of each report relating
to the project that the head of the agency
submits to the Board.
(7) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE REVIEW.—Pro-
grammatic, funding, and organizational
changes resulting from implementation of
the Foreign Assistance Review shall be sub-
ject to prior consultation with, and the reg-
ular notification procedures of, the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That such
notifications may be submitted in classified
form, if necessary.
RESCISSIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
SEC. 7074. (a) Of the unobligated balances
available under the heading ‘‘International
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement’’, as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1124 January 23, 2019
identified by Treasury Appropriation Fund
Symbol 11 X 1022, $12,420,000 are rescinded.
(b) Of the grant balances in the Foreign
Military Sales Trust Fund, identified by
Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbol 97–11
X 8242, which are not currently applied to an
active FMS case and which were appro-
priated prior to fiscal year 2009, $11,000,000
shall be deobligated, as appropriate, and
shall be permanently rescinded.
JOHN S. MCCAIN SCHOLARS PROGRAM
SEC. 7075. Funds appropriated by this Act
under the heading ‘‘Educational and Cultural
Exchange Programs’’ that are made avail-
able for the Benjamin Gilman International
Scholarships Program shall also be made
available for the John S. McCain Scholars
Program, pursuant to section 303 of the
International Academic Opportunity Act of
2000 (Public Law 106–309), to include the de-
pendents of active United States military
personnel who are receiving any form of Fed-
eral Financial Aid under title IV of the High-
er Education Act of 1965.
AFGHAN SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISAS
SEC. 7076. (a) AFGHAN ALLIES.—Section
602(b)(3)(F) of the Afghan Allies Protection
Act of 2009 (division F of Public Law 111–8),
as amended, is further amended by sub-
stituting ‘‘18,500’’ for ‘‘14,500’’ in the matter
preceding clause (i).
(b) CONDITIONS.—None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act may be made available
for the additional special immigrant visas
made available under subsection (a) until the
Secretary of State—
(1) develops and implements a system to
prioritize the processing of Afghan appli-
cants for special immigrant visas under sec-
tion 602 of the Afghan Allies Protection Act
of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note); and
(2) submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees, as defined in section
602(a) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of
2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note), the following re-
ports:
(A) the report required under paragraph
(12) of section 602(b) of the Afghan Allies
Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note), as
amended by section 1222 of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232);
(B) a report on the procedures and proc-
esses used by the Chief of Mission to deter-
mine whether an Afghan applicant for a spe-
cial immigrant visa under section 602 of the
Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C.
1101 note) has experienced, is experiencing,
or may reasonably be expected to experience
an ongoing, serious threat as a result of the
qualifying service of the applicant; and
(C) a report on the procedures for back-
ground and security checks on Afghan appli-
cants for special immigrant visas under such
section.
SAUDI ARABIA
SEC. 7077. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act under the heading ‘‘International
Military Education and Training’’ may be
made available for assistance for the Govern-
ment of Saudi Arabia.
TITLE VIII
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/
GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADMINISTRATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
DIPLOMATIC PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Diplomatic
Programs’’, $3,225,971,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, of which
$2,626,122,000 is for Worldwide Security Pro-
tection and shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary of
State may transfer up to $5,000,000 of the
total funds made available under this head-
ing to any other appropriation of any depart-
ment or agency of the United States, upon
the concurrence of the head of such depart-
ment or agency, to support operations in,
and assistance for, Afghanistan and to carry
out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961: Provided further, That any such
transfer shall be subject to the regular noti-
fication procedures of the Committees on
Appropriations: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For an additional amount for ‘‘Office of In-
spector General’’, $54,900,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, which
shall be for the Special Inspector General for
Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) for re-
construction oversight: Provided, That print-
ing and reproduction costs of SIGAR shall
not exceed amounts for such costs during fis-
cal year 2018: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Contribu-
tions to International Organizations’’,
$96,240,000: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress for Overseas Con-
tingency Operations/Global War on Ter-
rorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Contribu-
tions for International Peacekeeping Activi-
ties’’, $988,656,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operating
Expenses’’, $158,067,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Inter-
national Disaster Assistance’’, $584,278,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That such funds shall be apportioned to the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TRANSITION INITIATIVES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Transition
Initiatives’’, $62,043,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress for Overseas
Contingency Operations/Global War on Ter-
rorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
For an additional amount for ‘‘Economic
Support Fund’’, $1,172,336,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Migration
and Refugee Assistance’’ to respond to ref-
ugee crises, including in Africa, the Near
East, South and Central Asia, and Europe
and Eurasia, $1,404,124,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, except that such funds
shall not be made available for the resettle-
ment costs of refugees in the United States:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Peace-
keeping Operations’’, $325,213,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That funds available for obliga-
tion under this heading in this Act may be
used to pay assessed expenses of inter-
national peacekeeping activities in Somalia
under the same terms and conditions, as ap-
plicable, as funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Contributions for International
Peacekeeping Activities’’ in this Act, subject
to the regular notification procedures of the
Committees on Appropriations.
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Foreign
Military Financing Program’’, $229,372,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 8001. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, funds appropriated in this title
are in addition to amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available in this Act for fis-
cal year 2019.
EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES AND CONDITIONS
SEC. 8002. Unless otherwise provided for in
this Act, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this title to appropriations ac-
counts in this Act shall be available under
the authorities and conditions applicable to
such appropriations accounts.
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
SEC. 8003. (a) TRANSFER OF FUNDS BETWEEN
ACCOUNTS.—
(1) Funds appropriated by this title in this
Act under the headings ‘‘Transition Initia-
tives’’ and ‘‘Economic Support Fund’’ may
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1125
January 23, 2019
be transferred to, and merged with, funds ap-
propriated by this title under such headings.
(2) Funds appropriated by this title in this
Act under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping Oper-
ations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financing
Program’’ may be transferred to, and merged
with, funds appropriated by this title under
such headings.
(b) GLOBAL SECURITY CONTINGENCY FUND.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, up to $7,500,000 from funds appro-
priated under the headings ‘‘Peacekeeping
Operations’’ and ‘‘Foreign Military Financ-
ing Program’’ by this title in this Act may
be transferred to, and merged with, funds
previously made available under the heading
‘‘Global Security Contingency Fund’’.
(c) LIMITATION.—The transfer authority
provided in subsection (a) may only be exer-
cised to address contingencies.
(d) NOTIFICATION.—The transfer authority
provided by this section shall be subject to
prior consultation with, and the regular no-
tification procedures of, the Committees on
Appropriations: Provided, That such transfer
authority is in addition to any transfer au-
thority otherwise available under any other
provision of law, including section 610 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which may be
exercised by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this title.
RESCISSION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
SEC. 8004. Of the unobligated balances from
amounts available under the heading ‘‘Diplo-
matic and Consular Programs’’ in title II of
the Security Assistance Appropriations Act,
2017 (division B of Public Law 114–254),
$301,200,000 are rescinded: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress for
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War
on Terrorism pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
DIVISION F—TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RE-
LATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $113,910,000, of which not to ex-
ceed $3,065,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Secretary; not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not
to exceed $20,428,000 shall be available for the
Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed
$10,331,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Under Secretary of Transportation for
Policy; not to exceed $14,300,000 shall be
available for the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for Budget and Programs; not to ex-
ceed $2,546,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Govern-
mental Affairs; not to exceed $29,244,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Administration; not to exceed
$2,142,000 shall be available for the Office of
Public Affairs; not to exceed $1,859,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Executive
Secretariat; not to exceed $12,181,000 shall be
available for the Office of Intelligence, Secu-
rity, and Emergency Response; and not to
exceed $16,814,000 shall be available for the
Office of the Chief Information Officer: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to transfer funds appropriated
for any office of the Office of the Secretary
to any other office of the Office of the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That no appropria-
tion for any office shall be increased or de-
creased by more than 7 percent by all such
transfers: Provided further, That notice of
any change in funding greater than 7 percent
shall be submitted for approval to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000
shall be for allocation within the Depart-
ment for official reception and representa-
tion expenses as the Secretary may deter-
mine: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, excluding fees au-
thorized in Public Law 107–71, there may be
credited to this appropriation up to $2,500,000
in funds received in user fees: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds provided in this
Act shall be available for the position of As-
sistant Secretary for Public Affairs.
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses related to the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Research
and Technology, $8,471,000, of which $2,218,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021: Provided, That there may be credited to
this appropriation, to be available until ex-
pended, funds received from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training: Provided further, That any reference
in law, regulation, judicial proceedings, or
elsewhere to the Research and Innovative
Technology Administration shall continue to
be deemed to be a reference to the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Research and
Technology of the Department of Transpor-
tation.
NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
For capital investments in surface trans-
portation infrastructure, $900,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2021:
Provided, That the Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall distribute funds provided under
this heading as discretionary grants to be
awarded to a State, local government, tran-
sit agency, port authority, or a collaboration
among such entities on a competitive basis
for projects that will have a significant local
or regional impact: Provided further, That
projects eligible for funding provided under
this heading shall include, but not be limited
to, highway or bridge projects eligible under
title 23, United States Code; public transpor-
tation projects eligible under chapter 53 of
title 49, United States Code; passenger and
freight rail transportation projects; and port
infrastructure investments (including inland
port infrastructure and land ports of entry):
Provided further, That of the amount made
available under this heading, the Secretary
may use an amount not to exceed $15,000,000
for the planning, preparation or design of
projects eligible for funding under this head-
ing: Provided further, That grants awarded
under the previous proviso shall not be sub-
ject to a minimum grant size: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary may use up to 20
percent of the funds made available under
this heading for the purpose of paying the
subsidy and administrative costs of projects
eligible for Federal credit assistance under
chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code, or
sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad Revi-
talization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976
(Public Law 94–210), as amended, if the Sec-
retary finds that such use of the funds would
advance the purposes of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That in distributing funds pro-
vided under this heading, the Secretary shall
take such measures so as to ensure an equi-
table geographic distribution of funds, an ap-
propriate balance in addressing the needs of
urban and rural areas, and the investment in
a variety of transportation modes: Provided
further, That a grant funded under this head-
ing shall be not less than $5,000,000 and not
greater than $25,000,000: Provided further,
That not more than 10 percent of the funds
made available under this heading may be
awarded to projects in a single State: Pro-
vided further, That the Federal share of the
costs for which an expenditure is made under
this heading shall be, at the option of the re-
cipient, up to 80 percent: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall give priority to
projects that require a contribution of Fed-
eral funds in order to complete an overall fi-
nancing package: Provided further, That of
the funds made available under this heading
not more than 50 percent shall be for
projects located in a rural area with a popu-
lation equal to or less than 200,000: Provided
further, That for projects located in a rural
area, the minimum grant size shall be
$1,000,000 and the Secretary may increase the
Federal share of costs above 80 percent: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds made avail-
able under this heading not more than 50
percent shall be for projects located in an ur-
banized area with a population of more than
200,000: Provided further, That funds for an ur-
banized area under the previous proviso may
be obligated to projects in the metropolitan
area established under section 134 of title 23,
United States Code, that encompasses such
urbanized area: Provided further, That
projects conducted using funds provided
under this heading must comply with the re-
quirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of
title 40, United States Code: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall conduct a new com-
petition to select the grants and credit as-
sistance awarded under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary may set
aside not more than 3 percent of the funds
provided under this heading, and may trans-
fer portions of those funds to the Adminis-
trators of the Federal Highway Administra-
tion, the Federal Transit Administration,
the Federal Railroad Administration, and
the Maritime Administration to fund the
award and oversight of grants and credit as-
sistance made under the National Infrastruc-
ture Investments program: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall consider and award
projects based solely on the selection cri-
teria from the fiscal year 2017 Notice of
Funding Opportunity: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the previous proviso, the
Secretary shall not use the Federal share or
an applicant’s ability to generate non-Fed-
eral revenue as a selection criteria in award-
ing projects: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall issue the Notice of Funding Op-
portunity no later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That such
Notice of Funding Opportunity shall require
application submissions 90 days after the
publishing of such Notice: Provided further,
That of the applications submitted under the
previous two provisos, the Secretary shall
make grants no later than 270 days after en-
actment of this Act in such amounts that
the Secretary determines: Provided further,
That such sums provided for national infra-
structure investments for passenger rail
transportation projects under title I of divi-
sion C of the Consolidated and Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law
112–55; 125 Stat. 641), shall remain available
for expenditure through fiscal year 2019 for
the liquidation of valid obligations of active
grants awarded with this funding: Provided
further, That such sums provided for national
infrastructure investments for port infra-
structure projects under title VIII of division
F of the Consolidated and Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law
113–6; 127 Stat. 432) shall remain available
through fiscal year 2020 for the liquidation of
valid obligations of active grants awarded
with this funding: Provided further, That the
2 preceding provisos shall be applied as if
they were in effect on September 30, 2018.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1126 January 23, 2019
NATIONAL SURFACE TRANSPORTATION AND
INNOVATIVE FINANCE BUREAU
For necessary expenses of the National
Surface Transportation and Innovative Fi-
nance Bureau as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 116,
$5,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary shall
notify the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations no less than 15 days prior to
exercising the transfer authority granted
under section 116(h) of title 49, United States
Code.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL
For necessary expenses for upgrading and
enhancing the Department of Transpor-
tation’s financial systems and re-engineering
business processes, $2,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2020.
CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVES
For necessary expenses for cyber security
initiatives, including necessary upgrades to
wide area network and information tech-
nology infrastructure, improvement of net-
work perimeter controls and identity man-
agement, testing and assessment of informa-
tion technology against business, security,
and other requirements, implementation of
Federal cyber security initiatives and infor-
mation infrastructure enhancements, and
implementation of enhanced security con-
trols on network devices, $15,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2020.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $9,470,000.
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND
DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for conducting
transportation planning, research, systems
development, development activities, and
making grants, $7,879,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of such
amount, $1,000,000 shall be for necessary ex-
penses of the Interagency Infrastructure Per-
mitting Improvement Center (IIPIC): Pro-
vided further, That there may be transferred
to this appropriation, to remain available
until expended, amounts transferred from
other Federal agencies for expenses incurred
under this heading for IIPIC activities not
related to transportation infrastructure: Pro-
vided further, That the tools and analysis de-
veloped by the IIPIC shall be available to
other Federal agencies for the permitting
and review of major infrastructure projects
not related to transportation only to the ex-
tent that other Federal agencies provide
funding to the Department as provided for
under the previous proviso.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
For necessary expenses for operating costs
and capital outlays of the Working Capital
Fund, not to exceed $319,793,000, shall be paid
from appropriations made available to the
Department of Transportation: Provided,
That such services shall be provided on a
competitive basis to entities within the De-
partment of Transportation: Provided further,
That the above limitation on operating ex-
penses shall not apply to non-DOT entities:
Provided further, That no funds appropriated
in this Act to an agency of the Department
shall be transferred to the Working Capital
Fund without majority approval of the
Working Capital Fund Steering Committee
and approval of the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That no assessments may be levied
against any program, budget activity, sub-
activity or project funded by this Act unless
notice of such assessments and the basis
therefor are presented to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations and are
approved by such Committees.
MINORITY BUSINESS RESOURCE CENTER
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses of the Minority
Business Resource Center, the provision of
financial education outreach activities to el-
igible transportation-related small busi-
nesses, the monitoring of existing loans in
the guaranteed loan program, and the modi-
fication of such loans of the Minority Busi-
ness Resource Center, $500,000, as authorized
by 49 U.S.C. 332; Provided, That notwith-
standing that section, these funds may be for
business opportunities related to any mode
of transportation.
SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS
UTILIZATION AND OUTREACH
For necessary expenses for small and dis-
advantaged business utilization and outreach
activities, $3,488,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That not-
withstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may
be used for business opportunities related to
any mode of transportation.
PAYMENTS TO AIR CARRIERS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
In addition to funds made available from
any other source to carry out the essential
air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731
through 41742, $175,000,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That in determining between or among car-
riers competing to provide service to a com-
munity, the Secretary may consider the rel-
ative subsidy requirements of the carriers:
Provided further, That basic essential air
service minimum requirements shall not in-
clude the 15-passenger capacity requirement
under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49,
United States Code: Provided further, That
none of the funds in this Act or any other
Act shall be used to enter into a new con-
tract with a community located less than 40
miles from the nearest small hub airport be-
fore the Secretary has negotiated with the
community over a local cost share: Provided
further, That amounts authorized to be dis-
tributed for the essential air service program
under subsection 41742(b) of title 49, United
States Code, shall be made available imme-
diately from amounts otherwise provided to
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration: Provided further, That the
Administrator may reimburse such amounts
from fees credited to the account established
under section 45303 of title 49, United States
Code.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 101. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be obligated for the Office of the
Secretary of Transportation to approve as-
sessments or reimbursable agreements per-
taining to funds appropriated to the modal
administrations in this Act, except for ac-
tivities underway on the date of enactment
of this Act, unless such assessments or
agreements have completed the normal re-
programming process for Congressional noti-
fication.
SEC. 102. The Secretary shall post on the
Web site of the Department of Transpor-
tation a schedule of all meetings of the
Council on Credit and Finance, including the
agenda for each meeting, and require the
Council on Credit and Finance to record the
decisions and actions of each meeting.
SEC. 103. In addition to authority provided
by section 327 of title 49, United States Code,
the Department’s Working Capital Fund is
hereby authorized to provide partial or full
payments in advance and accept subsequent
reimbursements from all Federal agencies
from available funds for transit benefit dis-
tribution services that are necessary to
carry out the Federal transit pass transpor-
tation fringe benefit program under Execu-
tive Order No. 13150 and section 3049 of Pub-
lic Law 109–59: Provided, That the Depart-
ment shall maintain a reasonable operating
reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to be
expended in advance to provide uninter-
rupted transit benefits to Government em-
ployees: Provided further, That such reserve
will not exceed one month of benefits pay-
able and may be used only for the purpose of
providing for the continuation of transit
benefits: Provided further, That the Working
Capital Fund will be fully reimbursed by
each customer agency from available funds
for the actual cost of the transit benefit.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Aviation Administration, not otherwise pro-
vided for, including operations and research
activities related to commercial space trans-
portation, administrative expenses for re-
search and development, establishment of
air navigation facilities, the operation (in-
cluding leasing) and maintenance of aircraft,
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts
and maps sold to the public, the lease or pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles for re-
placement only, in addition to amounts
made available by Public Law 112–95,
$10,410,758,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which $9,833,400,000 shall
be derived from the Airport and Airway
Trust Fund, of which not to exceed
$7,841,720,000 shall be available for air traffic
organization activities; not to exceed
$1,336,969,000 shall be available for aviation
safety activities; not to exceed $24,949,000
shall be available for commercial space
transportation activities; not to exceed
$816,398,000 shall be available for finance and
management activities; not to exceed
$61,258,000 shall be available for NextGen and
operations planning activities; not to exceed
$114,165,000 shall be available for security and
hazardous materials safety; and not to ex-
ceed $215,299,000 shall be available for staff
offices: Provided, That not to exceed 5 per-
cent of any budget activity, except for avia-
tion safety budget activity, may be trans-
ferred to any budget activity under this
heading: Provided further, That no transfer
may increase or decrease any appropriation
by more than 5 percent: Provided further,
That any transfer in excess of 5 percent shall
be treated as a reprogramming of funds
under section 405 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section: Provided further, That
not later than March 31 of each fiscal year
hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration shall transmit to
Congress an annual update to the report sub-
mitted to Congress in December 2004 pursu-
ant to section 221 of Public Law 108–176: Pro-
vided further, That the amount herein appro-
priated shall be reduced by $100,000 for each
day after March 31 that such report has not
been submitted to the Congress: Provided fur-
ther, That not later than March 31 of each
fiscal year hereafter, the Administrator shall
transmit to Congress a companion report
that describes a comprehensive strategy for
staffing, hiring, and training flight standards
and aircraft certification staff in a format
similar to the one utilized for the controller
staffing plan, including stated attrition esti-
mates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal
year: Provided further, That the amount here-
in appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000
per day for each day after March 31 that such
report has not been submitted to Congress:
Provided further, That funds may be used to
enter into a grant agreement with a non-
profit standard-setting organization to assist
in the development of aviation safety stand-
ards: Provided further, That none of the funds
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1127
January 23, 2019
in this Act shall be available for new appli-
cants for the second career training pro-
gram: Provided further, That none of the
funds in this Act shall be available for the
Federal Aviation Administration to finalize
or implement any regulation that would pro-
mulgate new aviation user fees not specifi-
cally authorized by law after the date of the
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That
there may be credited to this appropriation,
as offsetting collections, funds received from
States, counties, municipalities, foreign au-
thorities, other public authorities, and pri-
vate sources for expenses incurred in the pro-
vision of agency services, including receipts
for the maintenance and operation of air
navigation facilities, and for issuance, re-
newal or modification of certificates, includ-
ing airman, aircraft, and repair station cer-
tificates, or for tests related thereto, or for
processing major repair or alteration forms:
Provided further, That of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, not less than
$168,000,000 shall be used to fund direct oper-
ations of the current 254 air traffic control
towers in the contract tower program, in-
cluding the contract tower cost share pro-
gram, and any airport that is currently
qualified or that will qualify for the program
during the fiscal year: Provided further, That
none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical
charting and cartography are available for
activities conducted by, or coordinated
through, the Working Capital Fund: Provided
further, That none of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act or
any other Act may be used to eliminate the
Contract Weather Observers program at any
airport: Provided further, That of the amount
appropriated under this heading, up to
$6,000,000 shall be used for providing match-
ing funds to qualified commercial entities
seeking to demonstrate or validate tech-
nologies that the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration considers essential to the safe inte-
gration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS)
in the National Airspace System at Federal
Aviation Administration designated UAS
test sites: Provided further, That not later
than 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration shall identify es-
sential integration technologies that could
be demonstrated or validated at test sites
designated in accordance with the preceding
proviso.
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for acquisition, establishment,
technical support services, improvement by
contract or purchase, and hire of national
airspace systems and experimental facilities
and equipment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including initial acquisition of necessary
sites by lease or grant; engineering and serv-
ice testing, including construction of test fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
lease or grant; construction and furnishing
of quarters and related accommodations for
officers and employees of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration stationed at remote lo-
calities where such accommodations are not
available; and the purchase, lease, or trans-
fer of aircraft from funds available under
this heading, including aircraft for aviation
regulation and certification; to be derived
from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund,
$3,000,000,000, of which $512,823,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020,
$2,372,127,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021, and $115,050,000 shall re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That there may be credited to this appro-
priation funds received from States, coun-
ties, municipalities, other public authorities,
and private sources, for expenses incurred in
the establishment, improvement, and mod-
ernization of national airspace systems: Pro-
vided further, That no later than March 31,
the Secretary of Transportation shall trans-
mit to the Congress an investment plan for
the Federal Aviation Administration which
includes funding for each budget line item
for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, with total
funding for each year of the plan constrained
to the funding targets for those years as esti-
mated and approved by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, AND DEVELOPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for research, engineering, and de-
velopment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including construction of experimental fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
lease or grant, $191,100,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to
remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That there may be credited to this
appropriation as offsetting collections, funds
received from States, counties, municipali-
ties, other public authorities, and private
sources, which shall be available for ex-
penses incurred for research, engineering,
and development: Provided further, That
funds made available under this heading
shall be used in accordance with the explana-
tory statement accompanying this Act: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed 10 percent
of any funding level specified under this
heading in the explanatory statement ac-
companying this Act may be transferred to
any other funding level specified under this
heading in the explanatory statement ac-
companying this Act: Provided further, That
no transfer may increase or decrease any
funding level by more than 10 percent: Pro-
vided further, That any transfer in excess of
10 percent shall be treated as a reprogram-
ming of funds under section 405 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For liquidation of obligations incurred for
grants-in-aid for airport planning and devel-
opment, and noise compatibility planning
and programs as authorized under sub-
chapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter I of
chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code,
and under other law authorizing such obliga-
tions; for procurement, installation, and
commissioning of runway incursion preven-
tion devices and systems at airports of such
title; for grants authorized under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code; and for
inspection activities and administration of
airport safety programs, including those re-
lated to airport operating certificates under
section 44706 of title 49, United States Code,
$3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport
and Airway Trust Fund and to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the planning or execution of pro-
grams the obligations for which are in excess
of $3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2019, notwith-
standing section 47117(g) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the replacement of baggage con-
veyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal
baggage areas, or other airport improve-
ments that are necessary to install bulk ex-
plosive detection systems: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 47109(a) of
title 49, United States Code, the Govern-
ment’s share of allowable project costs under
paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph (3)
of that section shall be 95 percent for a
project at other than a large or medium hub
airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
phased construction project for which the
project sponsor received a grant in fiscal
year 2011 for the construction project: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, of funds limited under
this heading, not more than $112,600,000 shall
be available for administration, not less than
$15,000,000 shall be available for the Airport
Cooperative Research Program, not less than
$33,210,000 shall be available for Airport
Technology Research, and $10,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
available and transferred to ‘‘Office of the
Secretary, Salaries and Expenses’’ to carry
out the Small Community Air Service Devel-
opment Program: Provided further, That in
addition to airports eligible under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code, such
program may include the participation of an
airport that serves a community or consor-
tium that is not larger than a small hub air-
port, according to FAA hub classifications
effective at the time the Office of the Sec-
retary issues a request for proposals.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Grants-In-
Aid for Airports’’, to enable the Secretary of
Transportation to make grants for projects
as authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 471
and subchapter 1 of chapter 475 of title 49,
United States Code, $500,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That amounts made available under
this heading shall be derived from the gen-
eral fund, and such funds shall not be subject
to apportionment formulas, special appor-
tionment categories, or minimum percent-
ages under chapter 471: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall distribute funds provided
under this heading as discretionary grants to
airports: Provided further, That the amount
made available under this heading shall not
be subject to any limitation on obligations
for the Grants-in-Aid for Airports program
set forth in any Act: Provided further, That
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration may retain up to 0.5 percent
of the funds provided under this heading to
fund the award and oversight by the Admin-
istrator of grants made under this heading.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 110. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to compensate in excess of 600 tech-
nical staff-years under the federally funded
research and development center contract
between the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion and the Center for Advanced Aviation
Systems Development during fiscal year
2019.
SEC. 111. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used to pursue or adopt guidelines or reg-
ulations requiring airport sponsors to pro-
vide to the Federal Aviation Administration
without cost building construction, mainte-
nance, utilities and expenses, or space in air-
port sponsor-owned buildings for services re-
lating to air traffic control, air navigation,
or weather reporting: Provided, That the pro-
hibition of funds in this section does not
apply to negotiations between the agency
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement
on ‘‘below-market’’ rates for these items or
to grant assurances that require airport
sponsors to provide land without cost to the
Federal Aviation Administration for air traf-
fic control facilities.
SEC. 112. The Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration may reimburse
amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1128 January 23, 2019
41742(a)(1) from fees credited under 49 U.S.C.
45303 and any amount remaining in such ac-
count at the close of that fiscal year may be
made available to satisfy section 41742(a)(1)
for the subsequent fiscal year.
SEC. 113. Amounts collected under section
40113(e) of title 49, United States Code, shall
be credited to the appropriation current at
the time of collection, to be merged with and
available for the same purposes of such ap-
propriation.
SEC. 114. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for paying premium pay under
subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administra-
tion employee unless such employee actually
performed work during the time cor-
responding to such premium pay.
SEC. 115. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for an employee of
the Federal Aviation Administration to pur-
chase a store gift card or gift certificate
through use of a Government-issued credit
card.
SEC. 116. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for retention bo-
nuses for an employee of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration without the prior writ-
ten approval of the Assistant Secretary for
Administration of the Department of Trans-
portation.
SEC. 117. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
under this Act or any prior Act may be used
to implement or to continue to implement
any limitation on the ability of any owner or
operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon
a request to the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, a blocking of
that owner’s or operator’s aircraft registra-
tion number from any display of the Federal
Aviation Administration’s Aircraft Situa-
tional Display to Industry data that is made
available to the public, except data made
available to a Government agency, for the
noncommercial flights of that owner or oper-
ator.
SEC. 118. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than eight political and Presidential
appointees in the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration.
SEC. 119. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used to increase fees
pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United
States Code, until the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration provides to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations a report
that justifies all fees related to aeronautical
navigation products and explains how such
fees are consistent with Executive Order
13642.
SEC. 119A. None of the funds in this Act
may be used to close a regional operations
center of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion or reduce its services unless the Admin-
istrator notifies the House and Senate Com-
mittees on Appropriations not less than 90
full business days in advance.
SEC. 119B. None of the funds appropriated
or limited by this Act may be used to change
weight restrictions or prior permission rules
at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jer-
sey.
SEC. 119C. None of the funds provided under
this Act may be used by the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration to
withhold from consideration and approval
any new application for participation in the
Contract Tower Program, or for reevaluation
of Cost-share Program participants as long
as the Federal Aviation Administration has
received an application from the airport, and
as long as the Administrator determines
such tower is eligible using the factors set
forth in the Federal Aviation Administration
report, Establishment and Discontinuance
Criteria for Airport Traffic Control Towers
(FAA–APO–90–7 as of August, 1990).
SEC. 119D. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, none of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended to limit the use of an Organization
Designation Authorization’s (ODA) delegated
functions documented in its procedures man-
ual on a type certification project unless the
Administrator documents a systemic air-
worthiness noncompliance performance issue
as a result of inspection or oversight that
the safety of air commerce requires a limita-
tion with regard to a specific authorization
or where an ODA’s capability has not been
previously established in terms of a new
compliance method or design feature: Pro-
vided, That in such cases FAA shall work
with the ODA holder if requested to develop
the capability to execute that function safe-
ly, efficiently and effectively: Provided fur-
ther, That this section does not limit the au-
thority of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion to pursue emergency actions on ODAs
where specific safety issues are noted.
SEC. 119E. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act and apportioned under sec-
tion 47114(d) of title 49, United States Code,
shall be made available for construction of a
storage building, or a portion of such build-
ing, to shelter snow equipment in excess of
equipment needs established by standards
issued by the Secretary of Transportation
that is owned by an airport categorized as a
local general aviation airport as indicated in
Federal Aviation Administration 2017- 2021
National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems
(NPIAS) report unless such airport sponsor
certifies conformity with the following:
(1) The storage building, or portion there-
of, to be constructed will be used to store
snow removal equipment exclusively used for
clearing airfield pavement of snow and ice
following a weather event.
(2) The 30-year annual snowfall normal of
the nearest weather station based on the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Summary of Monthly Normals 1981-2010
exceeds 26 inches.
(3) The airport serves as a base for a med-
ical air ambulance transport aircraft; (d)that
the airport master record (Form 5010-1) effec-
tive on September 14, 2017 for the airport in-
dicates 45 based aircraft consisting of single
engine, multiple engine, and jet engine air-
craft.
(4) The airport sponsor will complete de-
sign of the storage building not later than
fiscal year 2018 and initiate construction of
the storage building not later than fiscal
year 2019.
(5) The area of the storage building, or por-
tion thereof, to be funded under this section
shall not exceed 6,000 square feet.
SEC. 119F. (a) TERMINAL AERODROME FORE-
CAST.—The Administrator shall permit an
air carrier operation under part 121 of title
14, Code of Federal Regulations, to operate
to a destination determined to be under vis-
ual flight rules without a Terminal Aero-
drome Forecast or Meteorological Aero-
drome Report if a current Area Forecast,
supplemented by other local weather obser-
vations or reports, is available, and an alter-
nate airport that has an available Terminal
Aerodrome Forecast and weather report is
specified. The air carrier shall have approved
procedures for dispatch and en route weather
evaluation and shall operate under instru-
ment flight rules en route to the destination.
(b) LIMITATION.—Without a written finding
of necessity, based on objective and histor-
ical evidence of imminent threat to safety,
the Administrator shall not promulgate any
operation specification, policy, or guidance
document that is more restrictive than, or
requires procedures that are not expressly
stated in, the regulations.
SEC. 119G. Of the funds provided under the
heading ‘‘Grants-in-aid for Airports’’, up to
$3,500,000 shall be for necessary expenses, in-
cluding an independent verification regime,
to provide reimbursement to airport spon-
sors that do not provide gateway operations
and providers of general aviation ground sup-
port services located at those airports closed
during a temporary flight restriction (TFR)
for any residence of the President that is
designated or identified to be secured by the
United States Secret Service, and for direct
and incremental financial losses incurred
while such airports are closed solely due to
the actions of the Federal Government: Pro-
vided, That no funds shall be obligated or dis-
tributed to airport sponsors that do not pro-
vide gateway operations and providers of
general aviation ground support services
until an independent audit is completed: Pro-
vided further, That losses incurred as a result
of violations of law, or through fault or neg-
ligence, of such operators and service pro-
viders or of third parties (including airports)
are not eligible for reimbursements: Provided
further, That obligation and expenditure of
funds are conditional upon full release of the
United States Government for all claims for
financial losses resulting from such actions.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Not to exceed $446,444,304, together with
advances and reimbursements received by
the Federal Highway Administration, shall
be obligated for necessary expenses for ad-
ministration and operation of the Federal
Highway Administration. In addition,
$3,248,000 shall be transferred to the Appa-
lachian Regional Commission in accordance
with section 104(a) of title 23, United States
Code.
FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
Funds available for the implementation or
execution of Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under titles 23 and 49, United States
Code, and the provisions of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act shall not
exceed total obligations of $45,268,596,000 for
fiscal year 2019: Provided, That the Secretary
may collect and spend fees, as authorized by
title 23, United States Code, to cover the
costs of services of expert firms, including
counsel, in the field of municipal and project
finance to assist in the underwriting and
servicing of Federal credit instruments and
all or a portion of the costs to the Federal
Government of servicing such credit instru-
ments: Provided further, That such fees are
available until expended to pay for such
costs: Provided further, That such amounts
are in addition to administrative expenses
that are also available for such purpose, and
are not subject to any obligation limitation
or the limitation on administrative expenses
under section 608 of title 23, United States
Code.
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For the payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under title 23, United States Code,
$46,007,596,000 derived from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count), to remain available until expended.
HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS
There is hereby appropriated to the Sec-
retary of Transportation $3,250,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the amounts made available
under this heading shall be derived from the
general fund, shall be in addition to any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1129
January 23, 2019
funds provided for fiscal year 2019 in this or
any other Act for ‘‘Federal-aid Highways’’
under chapter 1 of title 23, United States
Code, and shall not affect the distribution or
amount of funds provided in any other Act:
Provided further, That section 1101(b) of Pub-
lic Law 114–94 shall apply to funds made
available under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds made available under
this heading, $2,729,000,000 shall be set aside
for activities eligible under section
133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code,
and for the elimination of hazards and the
installation of protective devices at railway-
highway crossings, $16,000,000 shall be set
aside for activities eligible under the Puerto
Rico Highway Program as described in sec-
tion 165(b)(2)(C) of such title, $5,000,000 shall
be set aside for activities eligible under the
Territorial Highway Program, as described
in section 165(c)(6) of such title, $25,000,000
shall be set aside for the nationally signifi-
cant Federal lands and tribal projects pro-
gram under section 1123 of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act
(Public Law 114–94), and $475,000,000 shall be
set aside for a bridge replacement and reha-
bilitation program for qualifying States:
Provided further, That for purposes of this
heading, (1) the term ‘‘State’’ means any of
the 50 States or the District of Columbia and
(2) the term ‘‘qualifying State’’ means a
State for which the percentage of total deck
area of bridges classified as in poor condition
in such State is at least 7.5 percent: Provided
further, That the funds made available under
this heading for activities eligible under sec-
tion 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States
Code, and for the elimination of hazards and
the installation of protective devices at rail-
way-highway crossings, shall be suballocated
in the manner described in section 133(d) of
such title, except that the set-aside de-
scribed in section 133(h) of such title shall
not apply to funds made available under this
heading: Provided further, That the funds
made available under this heading for (1) ac-
tivities eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of
such title and for the elimination of hazards
and the installation of protective devices at
railways-highway crossings, and (2) a bridge
replacement and rehabilitation program
shall be administered as if apportioned under
chapter 1 of such title and shall remain
available through September 30, 2022: Pro-
vided further, That the funds made available
under this heading for activities eligible
under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United
States Code, and for the elimination of haz-
ards and the installation of protective de-
vices at railway-highway crossings, shall be
apportioned to the States in the same ratio
as the obligation limitation for fiscal year
2019 is distributed among the States in sec-
tion 120(a)(5) of this Act: Provided further,
That, except as provided in the following
proviso, the funds made available under this
heading for activities eligible under the
Puerto Rico Highway Program and activities
eligible under the Territorial Highway Pro-
gram shall be administered as if allocated
under sections 165(b) and 165(c), respectively,
of such title and shall remain available
through September 30, 2022: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading for activities eligible under the
Puerto Rico Highway Program shall not be
subject to the requirements of sections
165(b)(2)(A) or 165(b)(2)(B) of such title: Pro-
vided further, That the funds made available
under this heading for the nationally signifi-
cant Federal lands and tribal projects pro-
gram under section 1123 of the FAST Act
shall remain available through September
30, 2022: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall distribute funds made available under
this heading for a bridge replacement and re-
habilitation program to each qualifying
State by the proportion that the percentage
of total deck area of bridges classified as in
poor condition in each qualifying State bears
to the sum of the percentages of total deck
area of bridges classified as in poor condition
in all qualifying States: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading for a bridge replacement and reha-
bilitation program shall be used for highway
bridge replacement or rehabilitation projects
on public roads: Provided further, That except
as provided in the following proviso the
funds made available under this heading for
a bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram shall be used in areas of a qualifying
State that have a population of 200,000 or
fewer individuals: Provided further, That if a
qualifying State has no bridges located in
areas with a population of 200,000 or fewer in-
dividuals, or if a qualifying State has insuffi-
cient bridge replacement or rehabilitation
needs in areas of the State with a population
of 200,000 or fewer individuals, the funds
made available under this heading for a
bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram may be used for highway bridge re-
placement or rehabilitation projects on pub-
lic roads in any area of the State: Provided
further, That for purposes of this heading for
a bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram, the Secretary shall (1) calculate popu-
lation based on the latest available data
from the decennial census conducted under
section 141(a) of title 13, United States Code,
and (2) calculate the percentages of total
deck area of bridges classified as in poor con-
dition based on the National Bridge Inven-
tory as of December 31, 2017.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary of Transportation shall—
(1) not distribute from the obligation limi-
tation for Federal-aid highways—
(A) amounts authorized for administrative
expenses and programs by section 104(a) of
title 23, United States Code; and
(B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of
Transportation Statistics;
(2) not distribute an amount from the obli-
gation limitation for Federal-aid highways
that is equal to the unobligated balance of
amounts—
(A) made available from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) for Federal-aid highway and highway
safety construction programs for previous
fiscal years the funds for which are allocated
by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Sec-
retary under sections 202 or 204 of title 23,
United States Code); and
(B) for which obligation limitation was
provided in a previous fiscal year;
(3) determine the proportion that—
(A) the obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways, less the aggregate of amounts
not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this subsection; bears to
(B) the total of the sums authorized to be
appropriated for the Federal-aid highway
and highway safety construction programs
(other than sums authorized to be appro-
priated for provisions of law described in
paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection (b)
and sums authorized to be appropriated for
section 119 of title 23, United States Code,
equal to the amount referred to in sub-
section (b)(12) for such fiscal year), less the
aggregate of the amounts not distributed
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this sub-
section;
(4) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2), for each of the programs (other
than programs to which paragraph (1) ap-
plies) that are allocated by the Secretary
under the Fixing America’s Surface Trans-
portation Act and title 23, United States
Code, or apportioned by the Secretary under
sections 202 or 204 of that title, by multi-
plying—
(A) the proportion determined under para-
graph (3); by
(B) the amounts authorized to be appro-
priated for each such program for such fiscal
year; and
(5) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under
paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and
highway safety construction programs that
are apportioned by the Secretary under title
23, United States Code (other than the
amounts apportioned for the National High-
way Performance Program in section 119 of
title 23, United States Code, that are exempt
from the limitation under subsection (b)(12)
and the amounts apportioned under sections
202 and 204 of that title) in the proportion
that—
(A) amounts authorized to be appropriated
for the programs that are apportioned under
title 23, United States Code, to each State
for such fiscal year; bears to
(B) the total of the amounts authorized to
be appropriated for the programs that are
apportioned under title 23, United States
Code, to all States for such fiscal year.
(b) EXCEPTIONS FROM OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TION.—The obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways shall not apply to obligations
under or for—
(1) section 125 of title 23, United States
Code;
(2) section 147 of the Surface Transpor-
tation Assistance Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144
note; 92 Stat. 2714);
(3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway
Act of 1981 (95 Stat. 1701);
(4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of
the Surface Transportation Assistance Act
of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
(5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of
the Surface Transportation and Uniform Re-
location Assistance Act of 1987 (101 Stat. 198);
(6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act
of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
(7) section 157 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect on June 8, 1998);
(8) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 1998
through 2004, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(9) Federal-aid highway programs for
which obligation authority was made avail-
able under the Transportation Equity Act
for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subse-
quent Acts for multiple years or to remain
available until expended, but only to the ex-
tent that the obligation authority has not
lapsed or been used;
(10) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 2005
through 2012, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(11) section 1603 of SAFETEA–LU (23 U.S.C.
118 note; 119 Stat. 1248), to the extent that
funds obligated in accordance with that sec-
tion were not subject to a limitation on obli-
gations at the time at which the funds were
initially made available for obligation; and
(12) section 119 of title 23, United States
Code (but, for each of fiscal years 2013
through 2019, only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000).
(c) REDISTRIBUTION OF UNUSED OBLIGATION
AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding subsection (a),
the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such
fiscal year—
(1) revise a distribution of the obligation
limitation made available under subsection
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1130 January 23, 2019
(a) if an amount distributed cannot be obli-
gated during that fiscal year; and
(2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those
States able to obligate amounts in addition
to those previously distributed during that
fiscal year, giving priority to those States
having large unobligated balances of funds
apportioned under sections 144 (as in effect
on the day before the date of enactment of
Public Law 112–141) and 104 of title 23, United
States Code.
(d) APPLICABILITY OF OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TIONS TO TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways shall apply to contract
authority for transportation research pro-
grams carried out under—
(A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States
Code; and
(B) title VI of the Fixing America’s Sur-
face Transportation Act.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Obligation authority made
available under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal
years; and
(B) be in addition to the amount of any
limitation imposed on obligations for Fed-
eral-aid highway and highway safety con-
struction programs for future fiscal years.
(e) REDISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZED
FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of distribution of obligation
limitation under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall distribute to the States any
funds (excluding funds authorized for the
program under section 202 of title 23, United
States Code) that—
(A) are authorized to be appropriated for
such fiscal year for Federal-aid highway pro-
grams; and
(B) the Secretary determines will not be
allocated to the States (or will not be appor-
tioned to the States under section 204 of title
23, United States Code), and will not be
available for obligation, for such fiscal year
because of the imposition of any obligation
limitation for such fiscal year.
(2) RATIO.—Funds shall be distributed
under paragraph (1) in the same proportion
as the distribution of obligation authority
under subsection (a)(5).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Funds distributed to
each State under paragraph (1) shall be
available for any purpose described in sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
SEC. 121. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
funds received by the Bureau of Transpor-
tation Statistics from the sale of data prod-
ucts, for necessary expenses incurred pursu-
ant to chapter 63 of title 49, United States
Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid
highways account for the purpose of reim-
bursing the Bureau for such expenses: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall be subject to the
obligation limitation for Federal-aid high-
way and highway safety construction pro-
grams.
SEC. 122. Not less than 15 days prior to
waiving, under his or her statutory author-
ity, any Buy America requirement for Fed-
eral-aid highways projects, the Secretary of
Transportation shall make an informal pub-
lic notice and comment opportunity on the
intent to issue such waiver and the reasons
therefor: Provided, That the Secretary shall
provide an annual report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations on
any waivers granted under the Buy America
requirements.
SEC. 123. None of the funds provided in this
Act to the Department of Transportation
may be used to provide credit assistance un-
less not less than 3 days before any applica-
tion approval to provide credit assistance
under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United
States Code, the Secretary of Transportation
provides notification in writing to the fol-
lowing committees: the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations; the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works
and the Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives: Provided,
That such notification shall include, but not
be limited to, the name of the project spon-
sor; a description of the project; whether
credit assistance will be provided as a direct
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and
the amount of credit assistance.
SEC. 124. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to make a grant for a project under
section 117 of title 23, United States Code,
unless the Secretary, at least 60 days before
making a grant under that section, provides
written notification to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations of the pro-
posed grant, including an evaluation and jus-
tification for the project and the amount of
the proposed grant award: Provided, That the
written notification required in the previous
proviso shall be made no later than 180 days
after enactment of this Act.
SEC. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined
in section 165 of title 23, United States Code,
may use for any project eligible under sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23
and located within the boundary of the State
or territory any earmarked amount, and any
associated obligation limitation: Provided,
That the Department of Transportation for
the State or territory for which the ear-
marked amount was originally designated or
directed notifies the Secretary of Transpor-
tation of its intent to use its authority under
this section and submits a quarterly report
to the Secretary identifying the projects to
which the funding would be applied. Not-
withstanding the original period of avail-
ability of funds to be obligated under this
section, such funds and associated obligation
limitation shall remain available for obliga-
tion for a period of 3 fiscal years after the
fiscal year in which the Secretary of Trans-
portation is notified. The Federal share of
the cost of a project carried out with funds
made available under this section shall be
the same as associated with the earmark.
(b) In this section, the term ‘‘earmarked
amount’’ means—
(1) congressionally directed spending, as
defined in rule XLIV of the Standing Rules
of the Senate, identified in a prior law, re-
port, or joint explanatory statement, which
was authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration; or
(2) a congressional earmark, as defined in
rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives, identified in a prior law, report,
or joint explanatory statement, which was
authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration.
(c) The authority under subsection (a) may
be exercised only for those projects or activi-
ties that have obligated less than 10 percent
of the amount made available for obligation
as of October 1 of the current fiscal year, and
shall be applied to projects within the same
general geographic area within 50 miles for
which the funding was designated, except
that a State or territory may apply such au-
thority to unexpended balances of funds from
projects or activities the State or territory
certifies have been closed and for which pay-
ments have been made under a final voucher.
(d) The Secretary shall submit consoli-
dated reports of the information provided by
the States and territories each quarter to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations.
FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY OPERATIONS AND
PROGRAMS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
implementation, execution and administra-
tion of motor carrier safety operations and
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title
49, United States Code, as amended by the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, $284,000,000, to be derived from the High-
way Trust Fund (other than the Mass Tran-
sit Account), together with advances and re-
imbursements received by the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of
which shall remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds available for implemen-
tation, execution or administration of motor
carrier safety operations and programs au-
thorized under title 49, United States Code,
shall not exceed total obligations of
$284,000,000 for ‘‘Motor Carrier Safety Oper-
ations and Programs’’ for fiscal year 2019, of
which $9,073,000, to remain available for obli-
gation until September 30, 2021, is for the re-
search and technology program, and of which
$34,824,000, to remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2021, is for information
management.
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out sections 31102, 31103, 31104, and
31313 of title 49, United States Code, as
amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, $382,800,000, to be de-
rived from the Highway Trust Fund (other
than the Mass Transit Account) and to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That funds available for the implementation
or execution of motor carrier safety pro-
grams shall not exceed total obligations of
$382,800,000 in fiscal year 2019 for ‘‘Motor Car-
rier Safety Grants’’; of which $304,300,000
shall be available for the motor carrier safe-
ty assistance program, $32,500,000 shall be
available for the commercial driver’s license
program implementation program, $44,000,000
shall be available for the high priority ac-
tivities program, and $2,000,000 shall be made
available for commercial motor vehicle oper-
ators grants, of which $1,000,000 is to be made
available from prior year unobligated con-
tract authority provided for Motor Carrier
Safety grants in the Transportation Equity
Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105–178),
SAFETEA–LU (Public Law 109–59), or other
appropriations or authorization acts.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL MOTOR
CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 130. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration shall send notice of 49 CFR
section 385.308 violations by certified mail,
registered mail, or another manner of deliv-
ery, which records the receipt of the notice
by the persons responsible for the violations.
SEC. 131. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
of Transportation by this Act or any other
Act may be obligated or expended to imple-
ment, administer, or enforce the require-
ments of section 31137 of title 49, United
States Code, or any regulation issued by the
Secretary pursuant to such section, with re-
spect to the use of electronic logging devices
by operators of commercial motor vehicles,
as defined in section 31132(1) of such title,
transporting livestock as defined in section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1131
January 23, 2019
602 of the Emergency Livestock Feed Assist-
ance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or insects.
SEC. 132. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act or any
other Act may be used to implement, enforce
or in any other way make effective the final
rule published by the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration on May 27, 2015, enti-
tled ‘‘Lease and Interchange of Vehicles;
Motor Carriers of Passengers’’.
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
For expenses necessary to discharge the
functions of the Secretary, with respect to
traffic and highway safety authorized under
chapter 301 and part C of subtitle VI of title
49, United States Code, $190,000,000, of which
$40,000,000 shall remain available through
September 30, 2020.
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403,
section 4011 of the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act (Public Law 114–94), and
chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code,
$152,100,000, to be derived from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) and to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That none of the funds in
this Act shall be available for the planning
or execution of programs the total obliga-
tions for which, in fiscal year 2019, are in ex-
cess of $152,100,000, of which $146,700,000 shall
be for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C.
403 and section 4011 of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act (Public Law 114–
94) and $5,400,000 shall be for the National
Driver Register authorized under chapter 303
of title 49, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That within the $152,100,000 obligation
limitation for operations and research,
$20,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and shall be in addition to
the amount of any limitation imposed on ob-
ligations for future years.
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 404,
and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, to re-
main available until expended, $610,208,000,
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund
(other than the Mass Transit Account): Pro-
vided, That none of the funds in this Act
shall be available for the planning or execu-
tion of programs the total obligations for
which, in fiscal year 2019, are in excess of
$610,208,000 for programs authorized under 23
U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6)
of the Fixing America’s Surface Transpor-
tation Act, of which $270,400,000 shall be for
‘‘Highway Safety Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C.
402; $283,000,000 shall be for ‘‘National Pri-
ority Safety Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C. 405;
$30,200,000 shall be for the ‘‘High Visibility
Enforcement Program’’ under 23 U.S.C. 404;
$26,608,000 shall be for ‘‘Administrative Ex-
penses’’ under section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act: Pro-
vided further, That none of these funds shall
be used for construction, rehabilitation, or
remodeling costs, or for office furnishings
and fixtures for State, local or private build-
ings or structures: Provided further, That not
to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available
for ‘‘National Priority Safety Programs’’
under 23 U.S.C. 405 for ‘‘Impaired Driving
Countermeasures’’ (as described in sub-
section (d) of that section) shall be available
for technical assistance to the States: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to the
‘‘Transfers’’ provision under 23 U.S.C.
405(a)(8), any amounts transferred to in-
crease the amounts made available under
section 402 shall include the obligation au-
thority for such amounts: Provided further,
That the Administrator shall notify the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of any exercise of the authority grant-
ed under the previous proviso or under 23
U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 140. An additional $130,000 shall be
made available to the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, out of the
amount limited for section 402 of title 23,
United States Code, to pay for travel and re-
lated expenses for State management re-
views and to pay for core competency devel-
opment training and related expenses for
highway safety staff.
SEC. 141. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the National Highway Traf-
fic Safety Administration set in this Act
shall not apply to obligations for which obli-
gation authority was made available in pre-
vious public laws but only to the extent that
the obligation authority has not lapsed or
been used.
SEC. 142. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to mandate global
positioning system (GPS) tracking in private
passenger motor vehicles without providing
full and appropriate consideration of privacy
concerns under 5 U.S.C. chapter 5, sub-
chapter II.
SEC. 143. In addition to the amounts made
available under the heading, ‘‘Operations and
Research (Liquidation of Contract Author-
ization) (Limitation on Obligations) (High-
way Trust Fund)’’ for carrying out the provi-
sions of section 403 of title 23, United States
Code, $14,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, shall be made available
to the National Highway Traffic Safety Ad-
ministration from the general fund, of which
not to exceed $7,000,000 shall be available to
provide funding for grants, pilot program ac-
tivities, and innovative solutions to reduce
impaired-driving fatalities in collaboration
with eligible entities under section 403 of
title 23, United States Code, and not to ex-
ceed $7,000,000 shall be available to continue
a high visibility enforcement paid-media
campaign regarding highway-rail grade
crossing safety in collaboration with the
Federal Railroad Administration.
FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SAFETY AND OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of the Federal Rail-
road Administration, not otherwise provided
for, $221,698,000, of which $18,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for railroad re-
search and development, $40,600,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT
FINANCING PROGRAM
The Secretary of Transportation is author-
ized to issue direct loans and loan guaran-
tees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of
the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory
Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–210), as
amended, such authority shall exist as long
as any such direct loan or loan guarantee is
outstanding.
FEDERAL-STATE PARTNERSHIP FOR STATE OF
GOOD REPAIR
For necessary expenses related to Federal-
State Partnership for State of Good Repair
Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title
49, United States Code, $400,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may withhold up to one percent of
the amount provided under this heading for
the costs of award and project management
oversight of grants carried out under section
24911 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that encom-
passes funds provided under this heading in
this Act and previously unawarded funds
provided under this heading in fiscal year
2017 by Public Law 115–31 and fiscal year 2018
by Public Law 115–141, no later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall announce the selec-
tion of projects to receive awards for the
funds in the previous proviso no later than
180 days after enactment of this Act.
CONSOLIDATED RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE AND
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses related to Consoli-
dated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Im-
provements Grants, as authorized by section
24407 of title 49, United States Code,
$255,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That section 24405(f) of
title 49, United States Code, shall not apply
to projects for the implementation of posi-
tive train control systems otherwise eligible
under section 24407(c)(1) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That amounts
available under this heading for projects se-
lected for commuter rail passenger transpor-
tation may be transferred by the Secretary,
after selection, to the appropriate agencies
to be administered in accordance with chap-
ter 53 of title 49, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall not
limit eligible projects from consideration for
funding for planning, engineering, environ-
mental, construction, and design elements of
the same project in the same application:
Provided further, That unobligated balances
remaining after 4 years from the date of en-
actment may be used for any eligible project
under section 24407(c) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may withhold up to one percent of the
amount provided under this heading for the
costs of award and project management over-
sight of grants carried out under section
24407 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that encom-
passes previously unawarded funds provided
under this heading in fiscal year 2018 by Pub-
lic Law 115–141 and funds provided under this
heading in this Act no later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall announce the selec-
tion of projects to receive awards for the
funds in the previous proviso no later than
120 days after enactment of this Act.
RESTORATION AND ENHANCEMENT
For necessary expenses related to Restora-
tion and Enhancement Grants, as authorized
by section 24408 of title 49, United States
Code, $5,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary may
withhold up to one percent of the funds pro-
vided under this heading to fund the costs of
award and project management and over-
sight: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall issue the Notice of Funding Oppor-
tunity for funds provided under this heading
no later than 30 days after enactment of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall announce the selection of projects to
receive awards for the funds in the previous
proviso no later than 120 days after enact-
ment of this Act.
MAGNETIC LEVITATION TECHNOLOGY
DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM
For necessary expenses related to the de-
ployment of magnetic levitation transpor-
tation projects, consistent with language in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1132 January 23, 2019
1307(a) through (c) of Public Law 109–59, as
amended by section 102 of Public Law 110–244
(section 322 of title 23, United States Code),
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NORTHEAST CORRIDOR GRANTS TO THE
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the Northeast Corridor as author-
ized by section 11101(a) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $650,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 per-
cent of the funds provided under both this
heading and the ‘‘National Network Grants
to the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion’’ heading to fund the costs of project
management and oversight of activities au-
thorized by section 11101(c) of division A of
Public Law 114–94: Provided further, That in
addition to the project management over-
sight funds authorized under section 11101(c)
of division A of Public Law 114–94, the Sec-
retary may retain up to an additional
$5,000,000 of the funds provided under this
heading to fund expenses associated with the
Northeast Corridor Commission established
under section 24905 of title 49, United States
Code: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading and the
‘‘National Network Grants to the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation’’ heading,
not less than $50,000,000 shall be made avail-
able to bring Amtrak-served facilities and
stations into compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
NATIONAL NETWORK GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL
RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the National Network as author-
ized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $1,291,600,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That the Secretary may retain up to an addi-
tional $2,000,000 of the funds provided under
this heading to fund expenses associated
with the State-Supported Route Committee
established under section 24712 of title 49,
United States Code: Provided further, That at
least $50,000,000 of the amount provided
under this heading shall be available for the
development, installation and operation of
railroad safety technology, including the im-
plementation of a positive train control sys-
tem, on State-supported routes as defined
under section 24102(13) of title 49, United
States Code, on which positive train control
systems are not required by law or regula-
tion: Provided further, That not less than
$50,000,000 of the amount provided under this
heading shall be for capital expenses related
to safety improvements, maintenance, and
the non-Federal match for discretionary
Federal grant programs to enable continued
passenger rail operations on long-distance
routes (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code) on which Amtrak is the
sole operator on a host railroad’s line and a
positive train control system is not required
by law or regulation: Provided further, That
none of the funds provided under this head-
ing shall be used by Amtrak to give notice
under subsection (a) or (b) of section 24706 of
title 49, United States Code, with respect to
long-distance routes (as defined in section
24102 of title 49, United States Code) on
which Amtrak is the sole operator on a host
railroad’s line and a positive train control
system is not required by law or regulation,
or, except in an emergency or during mainte-
nance or construction outages impacting
such routes, to otherwise discontinue, reduce
the frequency of, suspend, or substantially
alter the route of rail service on any portion
of such route operated in fiscal year 2018, in-
cluding implementation of service permitted
by section 24305(a)(3)(A) of title 49, United
States Code, in lieu of rail service.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 150. None of the funds provided to the
National Railroad Passenger Corporation
may be used to fund any overtime costs in
excess of $35,000 for any individual employee:
Provided, That the President of Amtrak may
waive the cap set in the previous proviso for
specific employees when the President of
Amtrak determines such a cap poses a risk
to the safety and operational efficiency of
the system: Provided further, That the Presi-
dent of Amtrak shall report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations with-
in 60 days of enactment of this Act, a sum-
mary of all overtime payments incurred by
the Corporation for 2018 and the three prior
calendar years: Provided further, That such
summary shall include the total number of
employees that received waivers and the
total overtime payments the Corporation
paid to those employees receiving waivers
for each month for 2018 and for the three
prior calendar years.
SEC. 151. It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) long-distance passenger rail routes pro-
vide much-needed transportation access for
4,700,000 riders in 325 communities in 40
States and are particularly important in
rural areas; and
(2) long-distance passenger rail routes and
services should be sustained to ensure
connectivity throughout the National Net-
work (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code).
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Federal Transit Administration’s pro-
grams authorized by chapter 53 of title 49,
United States Code, $113,165,000, of which up
to $1,000,000 shall be available to carry out
the provisions of section 5326 of such title:
Provided, That none of the funds provided or
limited in this Act may be used to create a
permanent office of transit security under
this heading: Provided further, That upon
submission to the Congress of the fiscal year
2020 President’s budget, the Secretary of
Transportation shall transmit to Congress
the annual report on New Starts, including
proposed allocations for fiscal year 2020.
TRANSIT FORMULA GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
Federal Public Transportation Assistance
Program in this account, and for payment of
obligations incurred in carrying out the pro-
visions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312,
5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340,
as amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, section 20005(b) of Pub-
lic Law 112–141, and section 3006(b) of the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, $9,900,000,000, to be derived from the
Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust
Fund and to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That funds available for
the implementation or execution of pro-
grams authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307,
5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337,
5339, and 5340, as amended by the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, sec-
tion 20005(b) of Public Law 112–141, and sec-
tion 3006(b) of the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, shall not exceed total
obligations of $9,939,380,030 in fiscal year
2019: Provided further, That the Federal share
of the cost of activities carried out under 49
U.S.C. section 5312 shall not exceed 80 per-
cent, except that if there is substantial pub-
lic interest or benefit, the Secretary may ap-
prove a greater Federal share.
TRANSIT INFRASTRUCTURE GRANTS
For an additional amount for buses and bus
facilities grants under section 5339 of title 49,
United States Code, state of good repair
grants under section 5337 of such title, for-
mula grants for rural areas under section
5311 of such title, high density state appor-
tionments under section 5340(d) of such title,
and the bus testing facilities under sections
5312 and 5318 of such title, $700,000,000 to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That $350,000,000 shall be available for grants
as authorized under section 5339 of such title,
of which $160,000,000 shall be available for the
buses and bus facilities formula grants as au-
thorized under section 5339(a) of such title,
$160,000,000 shall be available for the buses
and bus facilities competitive grants as au-
thorized under section 5339(b) of such title,
and $30,000,000 shall be available for the low
or no emission grants as authorized under
section 5339(c) of such title: Provided further,
That $263,000,000 shall be available for the
state of good repair grants as authorized
under section 5337 of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That $40,000,000 shall be available for
formula grants for rural areas as authorized
under section 5311 of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That $40,000,000 shall be available for
the high density state apportionments as au-
thorized under section 5340(d) of such title:
Provided further, That $1,000,000 shall be
available for the bus testing facility as au-
thorized under section 5318 of such title: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding section
5318(a) of such title, $6,000,000 shall be avail-
able for the operation and maintenance of
bus testing facilities by institutions of high-
er education selected pursuant to section
5312(h) of such title: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall enter into a contract or
cooperative agreement with, or make a grant
to, each institution of higher education se-
lected pursuant to section 5312(h) of such
title, to operate and maintain a facility to
conduct the testing of low or no emission ve-
hicle new bus models using the standards es-
tablished pursuant to section 5318(e)(2) of
such title: Provided further, That the term
‘‘low or no emission vehicle’’ has the mean-
ing given the term in section 5312(e)(6) of
such title: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall pay 80 percent of the cost of
testing a low or no emission vehicle new bus
model at each selected institution of higher
education: Provided further, That the entity
having the vehicle tested shall pay 20 per-
cent of the cost of testing: Provided further,
That a low or no emission vehicle new bus
model tested that receives a passing aggre-
gate test score in accordance with the stand-
ards established under section 5318(e)(2) of
such title, shall be deemed to be in compli-
ance with the requirements of section 5318(e)
of such title: Provided further, That amounts
made available by this heading shall be de-
rived from the general fund: Provided further,
That the amounts made available under this
heading shall not be subject to any limita-
tion on obligations for transit programs set
forth in any Act.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
For necessary expenses to carry out 49
U.S.C. 5314, $5,000,000, of which not less than
$1,500,000 shall be for a cooperative agree-
ment through which the Federal Transit Ad-
ministration assists small-urban, rural and
tribal public transit recipients and planning
organizations with applied innovation and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1133
January 23, 2019
capacity-building: Provided, That the assist-
ance provided under this heading not dupli-
cate the activities of 49 U.S.C. 5311(b) or 49
U.S.C. 5312.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out fixed
guideway capital investment grants under
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act, $2,552,687,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2022:
Provided, That of the amounts made avail-
able under this heading, $2,169,783,950 shall be
obligated by December 31, 2020: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, $1,265,670,000 shall be
available for projects authorized under sec-
tion 5309(d) of title 49, United States Code,
$635,000,000 shall be available for projects au-
thorized under section 5309(e) of title 49,
United States Code, $526,500,000 shall be
available for projects authorized under sec-
tion 5309(h) of title 49, United States Code,
and $100,000,000 shall be available for projects
authorized under section 3005(b) of the Fix-
ing America’s Surface Transportation Act:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
continue to administer the capital invest-
ment grants program in accordance with the
procedural and substantive requirements of
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and of section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act.
GRANTS TO THE WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN
AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY
For grants to the Washington Metropoli-
tan Area Transit Authority as authorized
under section 601 of division B of Public Law
110–432, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of
Transportation shall approve grants for cap-
ital and preventive maintenance expendi-
tures for the Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority only after receiving and
reviewing a request for each specific project:
Provided further, That prior to approving
such grants, the Secretary shall certify that
the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit
Authority is making progress to improve its
safety management system in response to
the Federal Transit Administration’s 2015
safety management inspection: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall determine
that the Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority has placed the highest pri-
ority on those investments that will improve
the safety of the system before approving
such grants: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary, in order to ensure safety throughout
the rail system, may waive the requirements
of section 601(e)(1) of division B of Public
Law 110–432.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION)
SEC. 160. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the Federal Transit Admin-
istration shall not apply to any authority
under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made avail-
able for obligation, or to any other authority
previously made available for obligation.
SEC. 161. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds appropriated or limited by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Fixed Guideway
Capital Investment’’ of the Federal Transit
Administration for projects specified in this
Act or identified in reports accompanying
this Act not obligated by September 30, 2022,
and other recoveries, shall be directed to
projects eligible to use the funds for the pur-
poses for which they were originally pro-
vided.
SEC. 162. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any funds appropriated before
October 1, 2018, under any section of chapter
53 of title 49, United States Code, that re-
main available for expenditure, may be
transferred to and administered under the
most recent appropriation heading for any
such section.
SEC. 163. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used to enter into a full
funding grant agreement for a project with a
New Starts share greater than 51 percent.
SEC. 164. Of the unobligated amounts made
available for fiscal years 2005 or prior fiscal
years to ‘‘Transit Formula Grants’’, a total
of $46,560,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded.
SEC. 165. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used for the imple-
mentation or furtherance of new policies de-
tailed in the ‘‘Dear Colleague’’ letter distrib-
uted by the Federal Transit Administration
to capital investment grant program project
sponsors on June 29, 2018.
SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development
Corporation is hereby authorized to make
such expenditures, within the limits of funds
and borrowing authority available to the
Corporation, and in accord with law, and to
make such contracts and commitments with-
out regard to fiscal year limitations, as pro-
vided by section 104 of the Government Cor-
poration Control Act, as amended, as may be
necessary in carrying out the programs set
forth in the Corporation’s budget for the cur-
rent fiscal year.
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
(HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses to conduct the op-
erations, maintenance, and capital asset re-
newal activities on those portions of the
Saint Lawrence Seaway owned, operated,
and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Sea-
way Development Corporation, $36,000,000, to
be derived from the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99–662:
Provided, That of the amounts made avail-
able under this heading, not less than
$16,000,000 shall be used on capital asset re-
newal activities.
MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to maintain and
preserve a U.S.-flag merchant fleet to serve
the national security needs of the United
States, $300,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
OPERATIONS AND TRAINING
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of operations and
training activities authorized by law,
$149,442,000, of which $70,593,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2020 for the op-
erations of the United States Merchant Ma-
rine Academy, and of which $18,000,000 shall
remain available until expended for the
maintenance and repair, equipment, and cap-
ital improvements at the United States Mer-
chant Marine Academy: Provided, That not
later than January 12, 2019, the Adminis-
trator of the Maritime Administration shall
transmit to the House and Senate Commit-
tees on Appropriations the annual report on
sexual assault and sexual harassment at the
United States Merchant Marine Academy as
required pursuant to section 3507 of Public
Law 110–417: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
$3,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020 for the Maritime Environ-
ment and Technology Assistance program
authorized under section 50307 of title 46,
United States Code: Provided further, That of
the amounts made available under this head-
ing, $7,000,000, shall remain available until
expended for the Short Sea Transportation
Program (America’s Marine Highways) to
make grants for the purposes authorized
under sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46,
United States Code: Provided further, That
available balances under this heading for the
Short Sea Transportation Program (Amer-
ica’s Marine Highways) from prior year re-
coveries shall be available to carry out ac-
tivities authorized under sections 55601(b)(1)
and (3) of title 46, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That from funds provided under
the previous two provisos, the Secretary of
Transportation shall make grants no later
than 180 days after enactment of this Act in
such amounts as the Secretary determines:
Provided further, That any unobligated bal-
ances available from previous appropriations
for programs and activities supporting State
Maritime Academies shall be transferred to
and merged with the appropriations for
‘‘Maritime Administration, State Maritime
Academy Operations’’ and shall be made
available for the same purposes.
STATE MARITIME ACADEMY OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of operations, sup-
port and training activities for State Mari-
time Academies, $345,200,000, of which
$25,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for maintenance, repair, life
extension, and capacity improvement of Na-
tional Defense Reserve Fleet training ships
in support of State Maritime Academies, of
which $8,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for expenses related to
training mariners for costs associated with
training vessel sharing pursuant to 46 U.S.C.
51504(g)(3) for costs associated with mobi-
lizing, operating and demobilizing the vessel,
including travel costs for students, faculty
and crew, the costs of the general agent,
crew costs, fuel, insurance, operational fees,
and vessel hire costs, as determined by the
Secretary, of which $300,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the Na-
tional Security Multi-Mission Vessel Pro-
gram, including funds for construction, plan-
ning, administration, and design of school
ships, of which $2,400,000 shall remain avail-
able through September 30, 2020, for the Stu-
dent Incentive Program, of which $3,800,000
shall remain available until expended for
training ship fuel assistance, and of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for direct payments for State
Maritime Academies.
ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SHIPYARDS
To make grants to qualified shipyards as
authorized under section 54101 of title 46,
United States Code, as amended by Public
Law 113–281, $20,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
SHIP DISPOSAL
For necessary expenses related to the dis-
posal of obsolete vessels in the National De-
fense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Admin-
istration, $5,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN (TITLE XI)
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the guaranteed loan program, $3,000,000,
which shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriations for ‘‘Operations and
Training’’, Maritime Administration.
PORT INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
To make grants to improve port facilities
as authorized under section 50302 of title 46,
United States Code, $200,000,000 to remain
available until expended: Provided, That
projects eligible for funding provided under
this heading shall be projects for coastal sea-
ports: Provided further, That in addition,
$92,730,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for grants to the 15 coastal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1134 January 23, 2019
seaports that handled the greatest number of
loaded foreign and domestic twenty-foot
equivalent units of containerized cargo in
2016, as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers: Provided further, That the Mari-
time Administration shall distribute funds
provided under this heading as discretionary
grants to port authorities or commissions or
their subdivisions and agents under existing
authority, as well as to a State or political
subdivision of a State or local government, a
tribal government, a public agency or pub-
licly chartered authority established by one
or more States, a special purpose district
with a transportation function, a multistate
or multijurisdictional group of entities, or a
lead entity described above jointly with a
private entity or group of private entities:
Provided further, That projects eligible for
funding provided under this heading shall be
either within the boundary of a port, or out-
side the boundary of a port, and directly re-
lated to port operations or to an intermodal
connection to a port that will improve the
safety, efficiency, or reliability of the move-
ment of goods into, out of, around, or within
a port, as well as the unloading and loading
of cargo at a port: Provided further, That in
awarding grants from funds made available
by the second proviso under this heading for
the 15 coastal seaports referred to, the Mari-
time Administration shall give priority con-
sideration for proposed projects that con-
struct treatment facilities defined in section
305.1 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations,
to meet the phytosanitary treatment re-
quirements of sections 305.5 through 305.8 of
title 7, Code of Federal Regulations: Provided
further, That the Federal share of the costs
for which an expenditure is made under this
heading shall be up to 80 percent: Provided
further, That not to exceed 2 percent of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for necessary costs of grant ad-
ministration: Provided further, That the pro-
ceeds of Federal credit assistance under
chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code or
sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad and
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of
1976 (Public Law 94–210), as amended, shall be
considered to be part of the non-Federal
share of project costs if the loan is repayable
from non-Federal funds, unless otherwise re-
quested by the project sponsor.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—MARITIME
ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 170. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, in addition to any existing
authority, the Maritime Administration is
authorized to furnish utilities and services
and make necessary repairs in connection
with any lease, contract, or occupancy in-
volving Government property under control
of the Maritime Administration: Provided,
That payments received therefor shall be
credited to the appropriation charged with
the cost thereof and shall remain available
until expended: Provided further, That rental
payments under any such lease, contract, or
occupancy for items other than such utili-
ties, services, or repairs shall be covered into
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
For necessary operational expenses of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $23,710,000: Provided, That the
Secretary of Transportation shall issue a
final rule to expand the applicability of com-
prehensive oil spill response plans within 90
days of enactment of this Act: Provided fur-
ther, That the amounts appropriated under
this heading shall be reduced by $10,000 per
day for each day that such rule has not been
issued following the expiration of the period
set forth in the previous proviso.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
For expenses necessary to discharge the
hazardous materials safety functions of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $58,000,000, of which $7,570,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021: Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees col-
lected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be depos-
ited in the general fund of the Treasury as
offsetting receipts: Provided further, That
there may be credited to this appropriation,
to be available until expended, funds re-
ceived from States, counties, municipalities,
other public authorities, and private sources
for expenses incurred for training, for re-
ports publication and dissemination, and for
travel expenses incurred in performance of
hazardous materials exemptions and approv-
als functions.
PIPELINE SAFETY
(PIPELINE SAFETY FUND)
(OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND)
For expenses necessary to carry out a pipe-
line safety program, as authorized by 49
U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline
program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution
Act of 1990, $165,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021, of which $23,000,000
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund; of which $134,000,000 shall be de-
rived from the Pipeline Safety Fund; and of
which $8,000,000 shall be derived from fees
collected under 49 U.S.C. 60302 and deposited
in the Underground Natural Gas Storage Fa-
cility Safety Account for the purpose of car-
rying out 49 U.S.C. 60141: Provided, That not
less than $1,058,000 of the funds provided
under this heading shall be for the One-Call
State grant program.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS GRANTS
(EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS FUND)
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Emergency Preparedness Grants program,
not more than $28,318,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021, from amounts
made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), and
5128(b) and (c): Provided, That notwith-
standing 49 U.S.C. 5116(h)(4), not more than 4
percent of the amounts made available from
this account shall be available to pay admin-
istrative costs: Provided further, That not-
withstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and (c) and the
current year obligation limitation, prior
year recoveries recognized in the current
year shall be available to develop a haz-
ardous materials response training cur-
riculum for emergency responders, including
response activities for the transportation of
crude oil, ethanol and other flammable liq-
uids by rail, consistent with National Fire
Protection Association standards, and to
make such training available through an
electronic format: Provided further, That the
prior year recoveries made available under
this heading shall also be available to carry
out 49 U.S.C. 5116(a)(1)(C) and 5116(i).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Inspector General to carry out the provisions
of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as
amended, $92,600,000: Provided, That the In-
spector General shall have all necessary au-
thority, in carrying out the duties specified
in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5
U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of
fraud, including false statements to the gov-
ernment (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any person or en-
tity that is subject to regulation by the De-
partment of Transportation: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading may be used to investigate, pursu-
ant to section 41712 of title 49, United States
Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and
unfair methods of competition by domestic
and foreign air carriers and ticket agents;
and (2) the compliance of domestic and for-
eign air carriers with respect to item (1) of
this proviso.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year,
applicable appropriations to the Department
of Transportation shall be available for
maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
purchase of liability insurance for motor ve-
hicles operating in foreign countries on offi-
cial department business; and uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by law (5
U.S.C. 5901–5902).
(b) During the current fiscal year, applica-
ble appropriations to the Department and its
operating administrations shall be available
for the purchase, maintenance, operation,
and deployment of unmanned aircraft sys-
tems that advance the Department’s, or its
operating administrations’, missions.
(c) Any unmanned aircraft system pur-
chased or procured by the Department prior
to the enactment of this Act shall be deemed
authorized.
SEC. 181. Appropriations contained in this
Act for the Department of Transportation
shall be available for services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to
the rate for an Executive Level IV.
SEC. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made
available in this Act shall disseminate per-
sonal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C.
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of
motor vehicles in connection with a motor
vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1),
except as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use
permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the
Secretary shall not withhold funds provided
in this Act for any grantee if a State is in
noncompliance with this provision.
SEC. 183. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than 125 political and Presidential ap-
pointees in the Department of Transpor-
tation: Provided, That none of the personnel
covered by this provision may be assigned on
temporary detail outside the Department of
Transportation.
SEC. 184. Funds received by the Federal
Highway Administration and Federal Rail-
road Administration from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training may be credited respectively to the
Federal Highway Administration’s ‘‘Federal-
Aid Highways’’ account and to the Federal
Railroad Administration’s ‘‘Safety and Oper-
ations’’ account, except for State rail safety
inspectors participating in training pursuant
to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
SEC. 185. (a) None of the funds provided in
this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be used to make a loan, loan
guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary
grant unless the Secretary of Transportation
notifies the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations not less than 3 full busi-
ness days before any project competitively
selected to receive any discretionary grant
award, letter of intent, loan commitment,
loan guarantee commitment, line of credit
commitment, or full funding grant agree-
ment is announced by the Department or its
modal administrations: Provided, That the
Secretary gives concurrent notification to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations for any ‘‘quick release’’ of funds
from the emergency relief program: Provided
further, That no notification shall involve
funds that are not available for obligation.
(b) In addition to the notification required
in subsection (a), none of the funds made
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1135
January 23, 2019
available in this Act to the Department of
Transportation may be used to make a loan,
loan guarantee, line of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grant unless the
Secretary of Transportation provides the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions a comprehensive list of all such loans,
loan guarantees, lines of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grants that will
be announced not less the 3 full business
days before such announcement: Provided,
That the requirement to provide a list in
this subsection does not apply to any ‘‘quick
release’’ of funds from the emergency relief
program: Provided further, That no list shall
involve funds that are not available for obli-
gation.
SEC. 186. Rebates, refunds, incentive pay-
ments, minor fees and other funds received
by the Department of Transportation from
travel management centers, charge card pro-
grams, the subleasing of building space, and
miscellaneous sources are to be credited to
appropriations of the Department of Trans-
portation and allocated to elements of the
Department of Transportation using fair and
equitable criteria and such funds shall be
available until expended.
SEC. 187. Amounts made available in this
or any prior Act that the Secretary deter-
mines represent improper payments by the
Department of Transportation to a third-
party contractor under a financial assistance
award, which are recovered pursuant to law,
shall be available—
(1) to reimburse the actual expenses in-
curred by the Department of Transportation
in recovering improper payments: Provided,
That amounts made available in this Act
shall be available until expended; and
(2) to pay contractors for services provided
in recovering improper payments or con-
tractor support in the implementation of the
Improper Payments Information Act of 2002,
as amended by the Improper Payments
Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010 and
Improper Payments Elimination and Recov-
ery Improvement Act of 2012, and Fraud Re-
duction and Data Analytics Act of 2015: Pro-
vided, That amounts in excess of that re-
quired for paragraphs (1) and (2)—
(A) shall be credited to and merged with
the appropriation from which the improper
payments were made, and shall be available
for the purposes and period for which such
appropriations are available: Provided fur-
ther, That where specific project or account-
ing information associated with the im-
proper payment or payments is not readily
available, the Secretary may credit an ap-
propriate account, which shall be available
for the purposes and period associated with
the account so credited; or
(B) if no such appropriation remains avail-
able, shall be deposited in the Treasury as
miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That prior to depositing such recovery in the
Treasury, the Secretary shall notify the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of the amount and reasons for such
transfer: Provided further, That for purposes
of this section, the term ‘‘improper pay-
ments’’ has the same meaning as that pro-
vided in section 2(e)(2) of Public Law 111–204.
SEC. 188. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, if any funds provided in or lim-
ited by this Act are subject to a reprogram-
ming action that requires notice to be pro-
vided to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations, transmission of said re-
programming notice shall be provided solely
to the House and Senate Committees on Ap-
propriations, and said reprogramming action
shall be approved or denied solely by the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That the Secretary of Trans-
portation may provide notice to other con-
gressional committees of the action of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions on such reprogramming but not sooner
than 30 days following the date on which the
reprogramming action has been approved or
denied by the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 189. Funds appropriated in this Act to
the modal administrations may be obligated
for the Office of the Secretary for the costs
related to assessments or reimbursable
agreements only when such amounts are for
the costs of goods and services that are pur-
chased to provide a direct benefit to the ap-
plicable modal administration or adminis-
trations.
SEC. 190. The Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to carry out a program that es-
tablishes uniform standards for developing
and supporting agency transit pass and tran-
sit benefits authorized under section 7905 of
title 5, United States Code, including dis-
tribution of transit benefits by various paper
and electronic media.
SEC. 191. The Department of Transpor-
tation may use funds provided by this Act, or
any other Act, to assist a contract under
title 49 U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing geo-
graphic, economic, or any other hiring pref-
erence not otherwise authorized by law, or to
amend a rule, regulation, policy or other
measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal
Highway Administration or Federal Transit
Administration grant from imposing such
hiring preference on a contract or construc-
tion project with which the Department of
Transportation is assisting, only if the grant
recipient certifies the following:
(1) that except with respect to apprentices
or trainees, a pool of readily available but
unemployed individuals possessing the
knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the
work that the contract requires resides in
the jurisdiction;
(2) that the grant recipient will include ap-
propriate provisions in its bid document en-
suring that the contractor does not displace
any of its existing employees in order to sat-
isfy such hiring preference; and
(3) that any increase in the cost of labor,
training, or delays resulting from the use of
such hiring preference does not delay or dis-
place any transportation project in the ap-
plicable Statewide Transportation Improve-
ment Program or Transportation Improve-
ment Program.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ex-
ecutive Offices, which shall be comprised of
the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Sec-
retary, Adjudicatory Services, Congressional
and Intergovernmental Relations, Public Af-
fairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Uti-
lization, and the Center for Faith-Based and
Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,900,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $25,000 of the
amount made available under this heading
shall be available to the Secretary for offi-
cial reception and representation expenses as
the Secretary may determine.
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ad-
ministrative Support Offices, $541,500,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020, of
which $70,400,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Financial Officer, (and of
which $20,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021, shall be for the financial
transformation initiative); $97,800,000 shall
be available for the Office of the General
Counsel, of which not less than $15,000,000
shall be for the Departmental Enforcement
Center; $206,300,000 shall be available for the
Office of Administration; $40,400,000 shall be
available for the Office of the Chief Human
Capital Officer; $54,300,000 shall be available
for the Office of Field Policy and Manage-
ment; $19,100,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Procurement Officer;
$3,800,000 shall be available for the Office of
Departmental Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity; $4,700,000 shall be available for the
Office of Business Transformation; and
$44,700,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Chief Information Officer: Provided, That
funds provided under this heading may be
used for necessary administrative and non-
administrative expenses of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, not oth-
erwise provided for, including purchase of
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; and services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated under this heading may be used
for advertising and promotional activities
that directly support program activities
funded in this title: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall provide the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations quar-
terly written notification regarding the sta-
tus of pending congressional reports: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall pro-
vide in electronic form all signed reports re-
quired by Congress: Provided further, That
not more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for the Office of
Chief Financial Officer for the financial
transformation initiative may be obligated
until the Secretary submits to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations, for
approval, a plan for expenditure that in-
cludes the financial and internal control ca-
pabilities to be delivered and the mission
benefits to be realized, key milestones to be
met, and the relationship between the pro-
posed use of funds made available under this
heading and the projected total cost and
scope of the initiative.
PROGRAM OFFICE SALARIES AND EXPENSES
PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Public and Indian Housing,
$219,800,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Community Planning and Develop-
ment, $112,344,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
HOUSING
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Housing, $382,500,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
not less than $12,000,000 shall be for the Of-
fice of Recapitalization.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Policy Development and Research,
$26,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Fair Housing and Equal Oppor-
tunity, $72,900,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
OFFICE OF LEAD HAZARD CONTROL AND
HEALTHY HOMES
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy
Homes, $8,600,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00135 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1136 January 23, 2019
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the working capital fund for the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
(referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘Fund’’), pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts
transferred, including reimbursements pur-
suant to section 7(f), to the Fund under this
heading shall be available for Federal shared
services used by offices and agencies of the
Department, and for such portion of any of-
fice or agency’s printing, records manage-
ment, space renovation, furniture, or supply
services as the Secretary determines shall be
derived from centralized sources made avail-
able by the Department to all offices and
agencies and funded through the Fund: Pro-
vided, That of the amounts made available in
this title for salaries and expenses under the
headings ‘‘Executive Offices’’, ‘‘Administra-
tive Support Offices’’, ‘‘Program Office Sala-
ries and Expenses’’, and ‘‘Government Na-
tional Mortgage Association’’, the Secretary
shall transfer to the Fund such amounts, to
remain available until expended, as are nec-
essary to fund services, specified in the mat-
ter preceding the first proviso, for which the
appropriation would otherwise have been
available, and may transfer not to exceed an
additional $5,000,000, in aggregate, from all
such appropriations, to be merged with the
Fund and to remain available until expended
for any purpose under this heading: Provided
further, That amounts in the Fund shall be
the only amounts available to each office or
agency of the Department for the services, or
portion of services, specified in the matter
preceding the first proviso: Provided further,
That with respect to the Fund, the authori-
ties and conditions under this heading shall
supplement the authorities and conditions
provided under section 7(f).
PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING
TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of tenant-based rental assistance au-
thorized under the United States Housing
Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et
seq.) (‘‘the Act’’ herein), not otherwise pro-
vided for, $18,598,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2018 (in addition to the $4,000,000,000 pre-
viously appropriated under this heading that
shall be available on October 1, 2018), and
$4,000,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be available on October 1, 2019:
Provided, That the amounts made available
under this heading are provided as follows:
(1) $20,313,000,000 shall be available for re-
newals of expiring section 8 tenant-based an-
nual contributions contracts (including re-
newals of enhanced vouchers under any pro-
vision of law authorizing such assistance
under section 8(t) of the Act) and including
renewal of other special purpose incremental
vouchers: Provided, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, from amounts
provided under this paragraph and any car-
ryover, the Secretary for the calendar year
2019 funding cycle shall provide renewal
funding for each public housing agency based
on validated voucher management system
(VMS) leasing and cost data for the prior cal-
endar year and by applying an inflation fac-
tor as established by the Secretary, by no-
tice published in the Federal Register, and
by making any necessary adjustments for
the costs associated with the first-time re-
newal of vouchers under this paragraph in-
cluding tenant protection and Choice Neigh-
borhoods vouchers: Provided further, That
none of the funds provided under this para-
graph may be used to fund a total number of
unit months under lease which exceeds a
public housing agency’s authorized level of
units under contract, except for public hous-
ing agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration, which are instead governed by
the terms and conditions of their MTW
agreements: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the extent necessary to stay
within the amount specified under this para-
graph (except as otherwise modified under
this paragraph), prorate each public housing
agency’s allocation otherwise established
pursuant to this paragraph: Provided further,
That except as provided in the following pro-
visos, the entire amount specified under this
paragraph (except as otherwise modified
under this paragraph) shall be obligated to
the public housing agencies based on the al-
location and pro rata method described
above, and the Secretary shall notify public
housing agencies of their annual budget by
the latter of 60 days after enactment of this
Act or March 1, 2019: Provided further, That
the Secretary may extend the notification
period with the prior written approval of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That public housing
agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration shall be funded pursuant to their
MTW agreements and shall be subject to the
same pro rata adjustments under the pre-
vious provisos: Provided further, That the
Secretary may offset public housing agen-
cies’ calendar year 2019 allocations based on
the excess amounts of public housing agen-
cies’ net restricted assets accounts, includ-
ing HUD-held programmatic reserves (in ac-
cordance with VMS data in calendar year
2018 that is verifiable and complete), as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That public housing agencies participating
in the MTW demonstration shall also be sub-
ject to the offset, as determined by the Sec-
retary, excluding amounts subject to the sin-
gle fund budget authority provisions of their
MTW agreements, from the agencies’ cal-
endar year 2019 MTW funding allocation: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall use
any offset referred to in the previous two
provisos throughout the calendar year to
prevent the termination of rental assistance
for families as the result of insufficient fund-
ing, as determined by the Secretary, and to
avoid or reduce the proration of renewal
funding allocations: Provided further, That up
to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for
adjustments in the allocations for public
housing agencies, after application for an ad-
justment by a public housing agency that ex-
perienced a significant increase, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, in renewal costs of
vouchers resulting from unforeseen cir-
cumstances or from portability under sec-
tion 8(r) of the Act; (2) for vouchers that
were not in use during the previous 12-month
period in order to be available to meet a
commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of
the Act; (3) for adjustments for costs associ-
ated with HUD–Veterans Affairs Supportive
Housing (HUD–VASH) vouchers; and (4) for
public housing agencies that despite taking
reasonable cost savings measures, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, would otherwise be
required to terminate rental assistance for
families as a result of insufficient funding:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall al-
locate amounts under the previous proviso
based on need, as determined by the Sec-
retary;
(2) $85,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental
assistance for relocation and replacement of
housing units that are demolished or dis-
posed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act,
conversion of section 23 projects to assist-
ance under section 8, the family unification
program under section 8(x) of the Act, relo-
cation of witnesses in connection with ef-
forts to combat crime in public and assisted
housing pursuant to a request from a law en-
forcement or prosecution agency, enhanced
vouchers under any provision of law author-
izing such assistance under section 8(t) of
the Act, Choice Neighborhood vouchers,
mandatory and voluntary conversions, and
tenant protection assistance including re-
placement and relocation assistance or for
project-based assistance to prevent the dis-
placement of unassisted elderly tenants cur-
rently residing in section 202 properties fi-
nanced between 1959 and 1974 that are refi-
nanced pursuant to Public Law 106–569, as
amended, or under the authority as provided
under this Act: Provided, That when a public
housing development is submitted for demo-
lition or disposition under section 18 of the
Act, the Secretary may provide section 8
rental assistance when the units pose an im-
minent health and safety risk to residents:
Provided further, That the Secretary may
only provide replacement vouchers for units
that were occupied within the previous 24
months that cease to be available as assisted
housing, subject only to the availability of
funds: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this paragraph,
$5,000,000 may be available to provide tenant
protection assistance, not otherwise pro-
vided under this paragraph, to residents re-
siding in low vacancy areas and who may
have to pay rents greater than 30 percent of
household income, as the result of: (A) the
maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or sec-
tion 202 loan that requires the permission of
the Secretary prior to loan prepayment; (B)
the expiration of a rental assistance contract
for which the tenants are not eligible for en-
hanced voucher or tenant protection assist-
ance under existing law; or (C) the expiration
of affordability restrictions accompanying a
mortgage or preservation program adminis-
tered by the Secretary: Provided further,
That such tenant protection assistance made
available under the previous proviso may be
provided under the authority of section 8(t)
or section 8(o)(13) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)): Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue guid-
ance to implement the previous provisos, in-
cluding, but not limited to, requirements for
defining eligible at-risk households within 60
days of the enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That any tenant protection voucher
made available from amounts under this
paragraph shall not be reissued by any public
housing agency, except the replacement
vouchers as defined by the Secretary by no-
tice, when the initial family that received
any such voucher no longer receives such
voucher, and the authority for any public
housing agency to issue any such voucher
shall cease to exist: Provided further, That
the Secretary may provide section 8 rental
assistance from amounts made available
under this paragraph for units assisted under
a project-based subsidy contract funded
under the ‘‘Project-Based Rental Assistance’’
heading under this title where the owner has
received a Notice of Default and the units
pose an imminent health and safety risk to
residents: Provided further, That to the ex-
tent that the Secretary determines that such
units are not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments or transfer of the sub-
sidy contract associated with such units to
another project or projects and owner or
owners, any remaining amounts associated
with such units under such contract shall be
recaptured and used to reimburse amounts
used under this paragraph for rental assist-
ance under the preceding proviso;
(3) $1,886,000,000 shall be for administrative
and other expenses of public housing agen-
cies in administering the section 8 tenant-
based rental assistance program, of which up
to $30,000,000 shall be available to the Sec-
retary to allocate to public housing agencies
that need additional funds to administer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00136 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1137
January 23, 2019
their section 8 programs, including fees asso-
ciated with section 8 tenant protection rent-
al assistance, the administration of disaster
related vouchers, HUD–VASH vouchers, and
other special purpose incremental vouchers:
Provided, That no less than $1,856,000,000 of
the amount provided in this paragraph shall
be allocated to public housing agencies for
the calendar year 2019 funding cycle based on
section 8(q) of the Act (and related Appro-
priation Act provisions) as in effect imme-
diately before the enactment of the Quality
Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998
(Public Law 105–276): Provided further, That if
the amounts made available under this para-
graph are insufficient to pay the amounts de-
termined under the previous proviso, the
Secretary may decrease the amounts allo-
cated to agencies by a uniform percentage
applicable to all agencies receiving funding
under this paragraph or may, to the extent
necessary to provide full payment of
amounts determined under the previous pro-
viso, utilize unobligated balances, including
recaptures and carryovers, remaining from
funds appropriated to the Department of
Housing and Urban Development under this
heading from prior fiscal years, excluding
special purpose vouchers, notwithstanding
the purposes for which such amounts were
appropriated: Provided further, That all pub-
lic housing agencies participating in the
MTW demonstration shall be funded pursu-
ant to their MTW agreements, and shall be
subject to the same uniform percentage de-
crease as under the previous proviso: Pro-
vided further, That amounts provided under
this paragraph shall be only for activities re-
lated to the provision of tenant-based rental
assistance authorized under section 8, in-
cluding related development activities;
(4) $225,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-
based assistance contracts under section 811
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Afford-
able Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including
necessary administrative expenses: Provided,
That administrative and other expenses of
public housing agencies in administering the
special purpose vouchers in this paragraph
shall be funded under the same terms and be
subject to the same pro rata reduction as the
percent decrease for administrative and
other expenses to public housing agencies
under paragraph (3) of this heading: Provided
further, That any amounts provided under
this paragraph in this Act or prior Acts, re-
maining available after funding renewals and
administrative expenses under this para-
graph, shall be available only for incre-
mental tenant-based rental assistance con-
tracts under such section 811 for non-elderly
persons with disabilities, including nec-
essary administrative expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That upon turnover, section 811 special
purpose vouchers funded under this heading
in this or prior Acts, or under any other
heading in prior Acts, shall be provided to
non-elderly persons with disabilities;
(5) $4,000,000 shall be for rental assistance
and associated administrative fees for Tribal
HUD–VASH to serve Native American vet-
erans that are homeless or at-risk of home-
lessness living on or near a reservation or
other Indian areas: Provided, That such
amount shall be made available for renewal
grants to recipients that received assistance
under prior Acts under the Tribal HUD–
VASH program: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall be authorized to specify cri-
teria for renewal grants, including data on
the utilization of assistance reported by
grant recipients: Provided further, That such
assistance shall be administered in accord-
ance with program requirements under the
Native American Housing Assistance and
Self-Determination Act of 1996 and modeled
after the HUD–VASH program: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall be authorized
to waive, or specify alternative requirements
for any provision of any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers in con-
nection with the use of funds made available
under this paragraph (except for require-
ments related to fair housing, non-
discrimination, labor standards, and the en-
vironment), upon a finding by the Secretary
that any such waivers or alternative require-
ments are necessary for the effective deliv-
ery and administration of such assistance:
Provided further, That grant recipients shall
report to the Secretary on utilization of such
rental assistance and other program data, as
prescribed by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary may reallocate, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, amounts returned
or recaptured from awards under prior acts;
(6) $40,000,000 for incremental rental vouch-
er assistance for use through a supported
housing program administered in conjunc-
tion with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs as authorized under section 8(o)(19) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall make such funding
available, notwithstanding section 203 (com-
petition provision) of this title, to public
housing agencies that partner with eligible
VA Medical Centers or other entities as des-
ignated by the Secretary of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical
need for such assistance as identified by the
Secretary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, public housing agency administrative
performance, and other factors as specified
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment in consultation with the Sec-
retary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs: Provided further, That the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development may waive,
or specify alternative requirements for (in
consultation with the Secretary of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs), any provision
of any statute or regulation that the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
administers in connection with the use of
funds made available under this paragraph
(except for requirements related to fair hous-
ing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and
the environment), upon a finding by the Sec-
retary that any such waivers or alternative
requirements are necessary for the effective
delivery and administration of such voucher
assistance: Provided further, That assistance
made available under this paragraph shall
continue to remain available for homeless
veterans upon turn-over;
(7) $20,000,000 shall be made available for
new incremental voucher assistance through
the family unification program as authorized
by section 8(x) of the Act: Provided, That the
assistance made available under this para-
graph shall continue to remain available for
family unification upon turnover: Provided
further, That for any public housing agency
administering voucher assistance appro-
priated in a prior Act under the family unifi-
cation program that determines that it no
longer has an identified need for such assist-
ance upon turnover, such agency shall notify
the Secretary, and the Secretary shall recap-
ture such assistance from the agency and re-
allocate it to any other public housing agen-
cy or agencies based on need for voucher as-
sistance in connection with such program;
(8) $25,000,000 shall be made available for
the mobility demonstration authorized
under section 235 of this title, of which up to
$5,000,000 shall be for new incremental vouch-
er assistance and the remainder of which
shall be available to provide mobility-related
services to families with children, including
pre- and post-move counseling and rent de-
posits, and to offset the administrative costs
of operating the mobility demonstration:
Provided, That incremental voucher assist-
ance made available under this paragraph
shall be for families with children partici-
pating in the mobility demonstration and
shall continue to remain available for fami-
lies with children upon turnover: Provided
further, That for any public housing agency
administering voucher assistance under the
mobility demonstration that determines
that it no longer has an identified need for
such assistance upon turnover, such agency
shall notify the Secretary, and the Secretary
shall recapture such assistance from the
agency and reallocate it to any other public
housing agency or agencies based on need for
voucher assistance in connection with such
demonstration; and
(9) the Secretary shall separately track all
special purpose vouchers funded under this
heading.
HOUSING CERTIFICATE FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
Unobligated balances, including recaptures
and carryover, remaining from funds appro-
priated to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development under this heading, the
heading ‘‘Annual Contributions for Assisted
Housing’’ and the heading ‘‘Project-Based
Rental Assistance’’, for fiscal year 2019 and
prior years may be used for renewal of or
amendments to section 8 project-based con-
tracts and for performance-based contract
administrators, notwithstanding the pur-
poses for which such funds were appro-
priated: Provided, That any obligated bal-
ances of contract authority from fiscal year
1974 and prior that have been terminated
shall be rescinded: Provided further, That
amounts heretofore recaptured, or recap-
tured during the current fiscal year, from
section 8 project-based contracts from source
years fiscal year 1975 through fiscal year 1987
are hereby rescinded, and an amount of addi-
tional new budget authority, equivalent to
the amount rescinded is hereby appropriated,
to remain available until expended, for the
purposes set forth under this heading, in ad-
dition to amounts otherwise available.
PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND
For the Public Housing Capital Fund Pro-
gram to carry out capital and management
activities for public housing agencies, as au-
thorized under section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) (the
‘‘Act’’) $2,775,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law or
regulation, during fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
may not delegate to any Department official
other than the Deputy Secretary and the As-
sistant Secretary for Public and Indian
Housing any authority under paragraph (2)
of section 9(j) regarding the extension of the
time periods under such section: Provided
further, That for purposes of such section
9(j), the term ‘‘obligate’’ means, with respect
to amounts, that the amounts are subject to
a binding agreement that will result in out-
lays, immediately or in the future: Provided
further, That of the total amount made avail-
able under this heading, up to $14,000,000
shall be to support ongoing public housing fi-
nancial and physical assessment activities:
Provided further, That of the total amount
made available under this heading, up to
$1,000,000 shall be to support the costs of ad-
ministrative and judicial receiverships: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount pro-
vided under this heading, not to exceed
$30,000,000 shall be available for the Sec-
retary to make grants, notwithstanding sec-
tion 203 of this Act, to public housing agen-
cies for emergency capital needs including
safety and security measures necessary to
address crime and drug-related activity as
well as needs resulting from unforeseen or
unpreventable emergencies and natural dis-
asters excluding Presidentially declared
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00137 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1138 January 23, 2019
emergencies and natural disasters under the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in
fiscal year 2019: Provided further, That of the
amount made available under the previous
proviso, not less than $10,000,000 shall be for
safety and security measures: Provided fur-
ther, That in addition to the amount in the
previous proviso for such safety and security
measures, any amounts that remain avail-
able, after all applications received on or be-
fore September 30, 2020, for emergency cap-
ital needs have been processed, shall be allo-
cated to public housing agencies for such
safety and security measures: Provided fur-
ther, That of the total amount provided
under this heading, up to $35,000,000 shall be
for supportive services, service coordinators
and congregate services as authorized by sec-
tion 34 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z–6) and the
Native American Housing Assistance and
Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.): Provided further, That of the total
amount made available under this heading,
$15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus initiative
modeled after the Jobs-Plus demonstration:
Provided further, That funding provided under
the previous proviso shall be available for
competitive grants to partnerships between
public housing authorities, local workforce
investment boards established under section
107 of the Workforce Innovation and Oppor-
tunity Act of 2014 (29 U.S.C. 3122), and other
agencies and organizations that provide sup-
port to help public housing residents obtain
employment and increase earnings: Provided
further, That applicants must demonstrate
the ability to provide services to residents,
partner with workforce investment boards,
and leverage service dollars: Provided further,
That the Secretary may allow public housing
agencies to request exemptions from rent
and income limitation requirements under
sections 3 and 6 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a and 1437d), as nec-
essary to implement the Jobs-Plus program,
on such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary may approve upon a finding by the
Secretary that any such waivers or alter-
native requirements are necessary for the ef-
fective implementation of the Jobs-Plus ini-
tiative as a voluntary program for residents:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
publish by notice in the Federal Register any
waivers or alternative requirements pursu-
ant to the preceding proviso no later than 10
days before the effective date of such notice:
Provided further, That for funds provided
under this heading, the limitation in section
9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 25 percent: Provided
further, That the Secretary may waive the
limitation in the previous proviso to allow
public housing agencies to fund activities
authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of the
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall notify public housing agencies request-
ing waivers under the previous proviso if the
request is approved or denied within 14 days
of submitting the request: Provided further,
That from the funds made available under
this heading, the Secretary shall provide
bonus awards in fiscal year 2019 to public
housing agencies that are designated high
performers: Provided further, That the De-
partment shall notify public housing agen-
cies of their formula allocation within 60
days of enactment of this Act: Provided fur-
ther, That of the total amount provided
under this heading, $25,000,000 shall be avail-
able for competitive grants to public housing
agencies to evaluate and reduce lead-based
paint hazards in public housing by carrying
out the activities of risk assessments, abate-
ment, and interim controls (as those terms
are defined in section 1004 of the Residential
Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of
1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851b)): Provided further, That
for purposes of environmental review, a
grant under the previous proviso shall be
considered funds for projects or activities
under title I of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) for pur-
poses of section 26 of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1437x) and shall be subject to the regulations
implementing such section.
PUBLIC HOUSING OPERATING FUND
For 2019 payments to public housing agen-
cies for the operation and management of
public housing, as authorized by section 9(e)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,653,116,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020.
CHOICE NEIGHBORHOODS INITIATIVE
For competitive grants under the Choice
Neighborhoods Initiative (subject to section
24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937
(42 U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified
under this heading), for transformation, re-
habilitation, and replacement housing needs
of both public and HUD-assisted housing and
to transform neighborhoods of poverty into
functioning, sustainable mixed income
neighborhoods with appropriate services,
schools, public assets, transportation and ac-
cess to jobs, $150,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That
grant funds may be used for resident and
community services, community develop-
ment, and affordable housing needs in the
community, and for conversion of vacant or
foreclosed properties to affordable housing:
Provided further, That the use of funds made
available under this heading shall not be
deemed to be public housing notwithstanding
section 3(b)(1) of such Act: Provided further,
That grantees shall commit to an additional
period of affordability determined by the
Secretary of not fewer than 20 years: Pro-
vided further, That grantees shall provide a
match in State, local, other Federal or pri-
vate funds: Provided further, That grantees
may include local governments, tribal enti-
ties, public housing authorities, and non-
profits: Provided further, That for-profit de-
velopers may apply jointly with a public en-
tity: Provided further, That for purposes of
environmental review, a grantee shall be
treated as a public housing agency under sec-
tion 26 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this
heading shall be subject to the regulations
issued by the Secretary to implement such
section: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $75,000,000 shall be
awarded to public housing agencies: Provided
further, That such grantees shall create part-
nerships with other local organizations in-
cluding assisted housing owners, service
agencies, and resident organizations: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall con-
sult with the Secretaries of Education,
Labor, Transportation, Health and Human
Services, Agriculture, and Commerce, the
Attorney General, and the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency to co-
ordinate and leverage other appropriate Fed-
eral resources: Provided further, That no
more than $5,000,000 of funds made available
under this heading may be provided as
grants to undertake comprehensive local
planning with input from residents and the
community: Provided further, That unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures, re-
maining from funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Revitalization of Severely Dis-
tressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)’’ in fiscal
year 2011 and prior fiscal years may be used
for purposes under this heading, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of
Funding Availability for funds made avail-
able under this heading no later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall make grant awards
no later than one year from the date of en-
actment of this Act in such amounts that
the Secretary determines: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 24(o) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437v(o)), the Secretary may, until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, obligate any available unob-
ligated balances made available under this
heading in this, or any prior Act.
FAMILY SELF-SUFFICIENCY
For the Family Self-Sufficiency program
to support family self-sufficiency coordina-
tors under section 23 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, to promote the develop-
ment of local strategies to coordinate the
use of assistance under sections 8(o) and 9 of
such Act with public and private resources,
and enable eligible families to achieve eco-
nomic independence and self-sufficiency,
$80,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the Secretary
may, by Federal Register notice, waive or
specify alternative requirements under sub-
sections b(3), b(4), b(5), or c(1) of section 23 of
such Act in order to facilitate the operation
of a unified self-sufficiency program for indi-
viduals receiving assistance under different
provisions of the Act, as determined by the
Secretary: Provided further, That owners of a
privately owned multifamily property with a
section 8 contract may voluntarily make a
Family Self-Sufficiency program available
to the assisted tenants of such property in
accordance with procedures established by
the Secretary: Provided further, That such
procedures established pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall permit participating ten-
ants to accrue escrow funds in accordance
with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners
to use funding from residual receipt accounts
to hire coordinators for their own Family
Self-Sufficiency program.
NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the Native American Housing Block
Grants program, as authorized under title I
of the Native American Housing Assistance
and Self-Determination Act of 1996
(NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.),
$655,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided, That, notwith-
standing NAHASDA, to determine the
amount of the allocation under title I of
such Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary
shall apply the formula under section 302 of
such Act with the need component based on
single-race census data and with the need
component based on multi-race census data,
and the amount of the allocation for each In-
dian tribe shall be the greater of the two re-
sulting allocation amounts: Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $7,000,000 shall be for providing
training and technical assistance to Indian
housing authorities and tribally designated
housing entities, to support the inspection of
Indian housing units, contract expertise, and
for training and technical assistance related
to funding provided under this heading and
other headings under this Act for the needs
of Native American families and Indian
country: Provided further, That of the funds
made available under the previous proviso,
not less than $2,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for a national organization as author-
ized under section 703 of NAHASDA (25
U.S.C. 4212): Provided further, That amounts
made available under the previous two pro-
visos may be used, contracted, or competed
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amount provided under this
heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available for
the cost of guaranteed notes and other obli-
gations, as authorized by title VI of
NAHASDA: Provided further, That such costs,
including the costs of modifying such notes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00138 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1139
January 23, 2019
and other obligations, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That
these funds are available to subsidize the
total principal amount of any notes and
other obligations, any part of which is to be
guaranteed, not to exceed $17,761,989: Pro-
vided further, That the Department will no-
tify grantees of their formula allocation
within 60 days of the date of enactment of
this Act: Provided further, That for an addi-
tional amount for the Native American
Housing Block Grants program, as author-
ized under title I of NAHASDA, $100,000,000
to remain available until September 30, 2023:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall ob-
ligate this additional amount for competi-
tive grants to eligible recipients authorized
under NAHASDA that apply for funds: Pro-
vided further, That in awarding this addi-
tional amount, the Secretary shall consider
need and administrative capacity, and shall
give priority to projects that will spur con-
struction and rehabilitation: Provided fur-
ther, That up to 1 percent of this additional
amount may be transferred, in aggregate, to
‘‘Program Office Salaries and Expenses—
Public and Indian Housing’’ for necessary
costs of administering and overseeing the ob-
ligation and expenditure of this additional
amount: Provided further, That any funds
transferred pursuant to the previous proviso
shall remain available until September 30,
2024.
INDIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of guaranteed loans, as au-
thorized by section 184 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1992 (12
U.S.C. 1715z–13a), $1,440,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the costs of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That these funds are available to
subsidize total loan principal, any part of
which is to be guaranteed, up to $553,846,154,
to remain available until expended: Provided
further, That up to $750,000 of this amount
may be for administrative contract expenses
including management processes and sys-
tems to carry out the loan guarantee pro-
gram.
NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANT
For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block
Grant program, as authorized under title
VIII of the Native American Housing Assist-
ance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25
U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $2,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 812(b) of such
Act, the Department of Hawaiian Home
Lands may not invest grant amounts pro-
vided under this heading in investment secu-
rities and other obligations: Provided further,
That amounts made available under this
heading in this and prior fiscal years may be
used to provide rental assistance to eligible
Native Hawaiian families both on and off the
Hawaiian Home Lands, notwithstanding any
other provision of law.
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WITH
AIDS
For carrying out the Housing Opportuni-
ties for Persons with AIDS program, as au-
thorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity
Act (42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $393,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020,
except that amounts allocated pursuant to
section 854(c)(5) of such Act shall remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring
contracts for permanent supportive housing
that initially were funded under section
854(c)(5) of such Act from funds made avail-
able under this heading in fiscal year 2010
and prior fiscal years that meet all program
requirements before awarding funds for new
contracts under such section: Provided fur-
ther, That the Department shall notify
grantees of their formula allocation within
60 days of enactment of this Act.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
For assistance to units of State and local
government, and to other entities, for eco-
nomic and community development activi-
ties, and for other purposes, $3,365,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021,
unless otherwise specified: Provided, That of
the total amount provided, $3,300,000,000 is
for carrying out the community development
block grant program under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as amended (‘‘the Act’’ herein) (42
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.): Provided further, That un-
less explicitly provided for under this head-
ing, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant
made with funds appropriated under this
heading shall be expended for planning and
management development and administra-
tion: Provided further, That a metropolitan
city, urban county, unit of general local gov-
ernment, Indian tribe, or insular area that
directly or indirectly receives funds under
this heading may not sell, trade, or other-
wise transfer all or any portion of such funds
to another such entity in exchange for any
other funds, credits or non-Federal consider-
ations, but must use such funds for activities
eligible under title I of the Act: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1)
of the Act, no funds provided under this
heading may be provided to a for-profit enti-
ty for an economic development project
under section 105(a)(17) unless such project
has been evaluated and selected in accord-
ance with guidelines required under sub-
section (e)(2): Provided further, That the De-
partment shall notify grantees of their for-
mula allocation within 60 days of enactment
of this Act: Provided further, That of the
total amount provided under this heading,
$65,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes
notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such
Act, of which, notwithstanding any other
provision of law (including section 203 of this
Act), up to $4,000,000 may be used for emer-
gencies that constitute imminent threats to
health and safety.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN GUARANTEES
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
Subject to section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2019,
commitments to guarantee loans under sec-
tion 108 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5308), any
part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed
a total principal amount of $300,000,000, not-
withstanding any aggregate limitation on
outstanding obligations guaranteed in sub-
section (k) of such section 108: Provided, That
the Secretary shall collect fees from bor-
rowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of
such section 108, to result in a credit subsidy
cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, and
any such fees shall be collected in accord-
ance with section 502(7) of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
For the HOME Investment Partnerships
program, as authorized under title II of the
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
Housing Act, as amended, $1,250,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2022: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding the amount
made available under this heading, the
threshold reduction requirements in sections
216(10) and 217(b)(4) of such Act shall not
apply to allocations of such amount: Pro-
vided further, That the Department shall no-
tify grantees of their formula allocation
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.
SELF-HELP AND ASSISTED HOMEOWNERSHIP
OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM
For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeown-
ership Opportunity Program, as authorized
under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity
Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended,
$54,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That of the total
amount provided under this heading,
$10,000,000 shall be made available to the
Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Pro-
gram as authorized under section 11 of the
Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act
of 1996, as amended: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $35,000,000 shall be made available for
the second, third, and fourth capacity build-
ing activities authorized under section 4(a)
of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42
U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not less than
$5,000,000 shall be made available for rural
capacity building activities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for
capacity building by national rural housing
organizations with experience assessing na-
tional rural conditions and providing financ-
ing, training, technical assistance, informa-
tion, and research to local nonprofits, local
governments, and Indian Tribes serving high
need rural communities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $4,000,000, shall be made available
for a program to rehabilitate and modify the
homes of disabled or low-income veterans, as
authorized under section 1079 of Public Law
113–291: Provided further, That funds provided
under the previous proviso shall be awarded
within 180 days of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That funds provided for
such program in fiscal years 2016, 2017, and
2018 shall be awarded within 60 days of enact-
ment of this Act.
HOMELESS ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For the Emergency Solutions Grants pro-
gram as authorized under subtitle B of title
IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assist-
ance Act, as amended; the Continuum of
Care program as authorized under subtitle C
of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Hous-
ing Stability Assistance program as author-
ized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act,
$2,636,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That any rental as-
sistance amounts that are recaptured under
such Continuum of Care program shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That not less than $280,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for such Emergency Solutions
Grants program: Provided further, That not
less than $2,219,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be available
for such Continuum of Care and Rural Hous-
ing Stability Assistance programs: Provided
further, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, up to $50,000,000 shall be
made available for grants for rapid re-hous-
ing projects and supportive service projects
providing coordinated entry, and for eligible
activities the Secretary determines to be
critical in order to assist survivors of domes-
tic violence, dating violence, and stalking:
Provided further, That such projects shall be
eligible for renewal under the continuum of
care program subject to the same terms and
conditions as other renewal applicants: Pro-
vided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for the national homeless data
analysis project: Provided further, That all
funds awarded for supportive services under
the Continuum of Care program and the
Rural Housing Stability Assistance program
shall be matched by not less than 25 percent
in cash or in kind by each grantee: Provided
further, That for all match requirements ap-
plicable to funds made available under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00139 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1140 January 23, 2019
heading for this fiscal year and prior fiscal
years, a grantee may use (or could have
used) as a source of match funds other funds
administered by the Secretary and other
Federal agencies unless there is (or was) a
specific statutory prohibition on any such
use of any such funds: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall collect system perform-
ance measures for each continuum of care,
and that relative to fiscal year 2015, under
the Continuum of Care competition with re-
spect to funds made available under this
heading, the Secretary shall base an increas-
ing share of the score on performance cri-
teria: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided under this heading shall be
available to provide funding for new
projects, except for projects created through
reallocation, unless the Secretary deter-
mines that the continuum of care has dem-
onstrated that projects are evaluated and
ranked based on the degree to which they
improve the continuum of care’s system per-
formance: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall prioritize funding under the
Continuum of Care program to continuums
of care that have demonstrated a capacity to
reallocate funding from lower performing
projects to higher performing projects: Pro-
vided further, That all awards of assistance
under this heading shall be required to co-
ordinate and integrate homeless programs
with other mainstream health, social serv-
ices, and employment programs for which
homeless populations may be eligible: Pro-
vided further, That any unobligated amounts
remaining from funds appropriated under
this heading in fiscal year 2012 and prior
years for project-based rental assistance for
rehabilitation projects with 10-year grant
terms may be used for purposes under this
heading, notwithstanding the purposes for
which such funds were appropriated: Provided
further, That all balances for Shelter Plus
Care renewals previously funded from the
Shelter Plus Care Renewal account and
transferred to this account shall be avail-
able, if recaptured, for Continuum of Care re-
newals in fiscal year 2019: Provided further,
That the Department shall notify grantees of
their formula allocation from amounts allo-
cated (which may represent initial or final
amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solu-
tions Grant program within 60 days of enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That up to
$80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be to implement projects
to demonstrate how a comprehensive ap-
proach to serving homeless youth, age 24 and
under, in up to 25 communities, including at
least eight communities with substantial
rural populations, can dramatically reduce
youth homelessness: Provided further, That of
the amount made available under the pre-
vious proviso, up to $5,000,000 shall be avail-
able to provide technical assistance on youth
homelessness, and collection, analysis, and
reporting of data and performance measures
under the comprehensive approaches to serve
homeless youth, in addition to and in coordi-
nation with other technical assistance funds
provided under this title: Provided further,
That such projects shall be eligible for re-
newal under the continuum of care program
subject to the same terms and conditions as
other renewal applicants: Provided further,
That youth aged 24 and under seeking assist-
ance under this heading shall not be required
to provide third party documentation to es-
tablish their eligibility under 42 U.S.C.
11302(a) or (b) to receive services: Provided
further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24
and under or families headed by youth aged
24 and under who are living in unsafe situa-
tions may be served by youth-serving pro-
viders funded under this heading.
HOUSING PROGRAMS
PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of project-based subsidy contracts under
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (‘‘the Act’’), not other-
wise provided for, $11,347,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
on October 1, 2018 (in addition to the
$400,000,000 previously appropriated under
this heading that became available October
1, 2018), and $400,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2019: Provided, That the amounts made
available under this heading shall be avail-
able for expiring or terminating section 8
project-based subsidy contracts (including
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts),
for amendments to section 8 project-based
subsidy contracts (including section 8 mod-
erate rehabilitation contracts), for contracts
entered into pursuant to section 441 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal of section 8 con-
tracts for units in projects that are subject
to approved plans of action under the Emer-
gency Low Income Housing Preservation Act
of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preserva-
tion and Resident Homeownership Act of
1990, and for administrative and other ex-
penses associated with project-based activi-
ties and assistance funded under this para-
graph: Provided further, That of the total
amounts provided under this heading, not to
exceed $245,000,000 shall be available for per-
formance-based contract administrators for
section 8 project-based assistance, for car-
rying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f): Provided further,
That the Secretary may also use such
amounts in the previous proviso for perform-
ance-based contract administrators for the
administration of: interest reduction pay-
ments pursuant to section 236(a) of the Na-
tional Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z–1(a)); rent
supplement payments pursuant to section
101 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2)
rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z–
1(f)(2)); project rental assistance contracts
for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the
Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project
rental assistance contracts for supportive
housing for persons with disabilities under
section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
8013(d)(2)); project assistance contracts pur-
suant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667); and
loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667): Provided
further, That amounts recaptured under this
heading, the heading ‘‘Annual Contributions
for Assisted Housing’’, or the heading ‘‘Hous-
ing Certificate Fund’’, may be used for re-
newals of or amendments to section 8
project-based contracts or for performance-
based contract administrators, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, upon the request of the Secretary,
project funds that are held in residual re-
ceipts accounts for any project subject to a
section 8 project-based Housing Assistance
Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a
Housing Finance Agency to require that sur-
plus project funds be deposited in an inter-
est-bearing residual receipts account and
that are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to be available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That amounts deposited pursu-
ant to the previous proviso shall be available
in addition to the amount otherwise pro-
vided by this heading for uses authorized
under this heading.
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY
For capital advances, including amend-
ments to capital advance contracts, for hous-
ing for the elderly, as authorized by section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended,
for project rental assistance for the elderly
under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including
amendments to contracts for such assistance
and renewal of expiring contracts for such
assistance for up to a 1-year term, for senior
preservation rental assistance contracts, in-
cluding renewals, as authorized by section
811(e) of the American Housing and Eco-
nomic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended,
and for supportive services associated with
the housing, $678,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That of
the amount provided under this heading, up
to $90,000,000 shall be for service coordinators
and the continuation of existing congregate
service grants for residents of assisted hous-
ing projects: Provided further, That amounts
under this heading shall be available for Real
Estate Assessment Center inspections and
inspection-related activities associated with
section 202 projects: Provided further, That
the Secretary may waive the provisions of
section 202 governing the terms and condi-
tions of project rental assistance, except
that the initial contract term for such as-
sistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration:
Provided further, That upon request of the
Secretary, project funds that are held in re-
sidual receipts accounts for any project sub-
ject to a section 202 project rental assistance
contract and, upon termination of such con-
tract, are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until September
30, 2022: Provided further, That amounts de-
posited in this account pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall be available, in addition
to the amounts otherwise provided by this
heading, for amendments and renewals: Pro-
vided further, That unobligated balances, in-
cluding recaptures and carryover, remaining
from funds transferred to or appropriated
under this heading shall be available for
amendments and renewals in addition to the
purposes for which such funds originally
were appropriated: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $10,000,000, shall be for a program to be
established by the Secretary to make grants
to experienced non-profit organizations,
States, local governments, or public housing
agencies for safety and functional home
modification repairs to meet the needs of
low-income elderly persons to enable them
to remain in their primary residence: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount made
available under the previous proviso, no less
than $5,000,000 shall be available to meet
such needs in communities with substantial
rural populations.
HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
For capital advances, including amend-
ments to capital advance contracts, for sup-
portive housing for persons with disabilities,
as authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 8013), as amended, for project rent-
al assistance for supportive housing for per-
sons with disabilities under section 811(d)(2)
of such Act, for project assistance contracts
pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act
of 1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667), in-
cluding amendments to contracts for such
assistance and renewal of expiring contracts
for such assistance for up to a 1-year term,
for project rental assistance to State hous-
ing finance agencies and other appropriate
entities as authorized under section 811(b)(3)
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Housing
Act, and for supportive services associated
with the housing for persons with disabilities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00140 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1141
January 23, 2019
as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of such Act,
$184,155,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, of which $30,155,000 shall be
for capital advance and project rental assist-
ance awards: Provided, That amounts made
available under this heading shall be avail-
able for Real Estate Assessment Center in-
spections and inspection-related activities
associated with section 811 projects: Provided
further, That, upon the request of the Sec-
retary, project funds that are held in resid-
ual receipts accounts for any project subject
to a section 811 project rental assistance con-
tract and, upon termination of such con-
tract, are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until September
30, 2022: Provided further, That amounts de-
posited in this account pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall be available in addition
to the amounts otherwise provided by this
heading for amendments and renewals: Pro-
vided further, That unobligated balances, in-
cluding recaptures and carryover, remaining
from funds transferred to or appropriated
under this heading shall be used for amend-
ments and renewals in addition to the pur-
poses for which such funds originally were
appropriated.
HOUSING COUNSELING ASSISTANCE
For contracts, grants, and other assistance
excluding loans, as authorized under section
106 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1968, as amended, $50,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, including
up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract
services: Provided, That grants made avail-
able from amounts provided under this head-
ing shall be awarded within 180 days of en-
actment of this Act: Provided further, That
funds shall be used for providing counseling
and advice to tenants and homeowners, both
current and prospective, with respect to
property maintenance, financial manage-
ment or literacy, and such other matters as
may be appropriate to assist them in improv-
ing their housing conditions, meeting their
financial needs, and fulfilling the respon-
sibilities of tenancy or homeownership; for
program administration; and for housing
counselor training: Provided further, That for
purposes of providing such grants from
amounts provided under this heading, the
Secretary may enter into multiyear agree-
ments, as appropriate, subject to the avail-
ability of annual appropriations.
RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE
For amendments to contracts under sec-
tion 101 of the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section
236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–1) in State-aided, noninsured
rental housing projects, $5,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount, together with unobligated balances
from recaptured amounts appropriated prior
to fiscal year 2006 from terminated contracts
under such sections of law, and any unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures and car-
ryover, remaining from funds appropriated
under this heading after fiscal year 2005,
shall also be available for extensions of up to
one year for expiring contracts under such
sections of law.
PAYMENT TO MANUFACTURED HOUSING FEES
TRUST FUND
For necessary expenses as authorized by
the National Manufactured Housing Con-
struction and Safety Standards Act of 1974
(42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), up to $12,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which
$12,000,000 is to be derived from the Manufac-
tured Housing Fees Trust Fund: Provided,
That not to exceed the total amount appro-
priated under this heading shall be available
from the general fund of the Treasury to the
extent necessary to incur obligations and
make expenditures pending the receipt of
collections to the Fund pursuant to section
620 of such Act: Provided further, That the
amount made available under this heading
from the general fund shall be reduced as
such collections are received during fiscal
year 2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year
2019 appropriation from the general fund es-
timated at zero, and fees pursuant to such
section 620 shall be modified as necessary to
ensure such a final fiscal year 2019 appropria-
tion: Provided further, That for the dispute
resolution and installation programs, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment may assess and collect fees from any
program participant: Provided further, That
such collections shall be deposited into the
Fund, and the Secretary, as provided herein,
may use such collections, as well as fees col-
lected under section 620, for necessary ex-
penses of such Act: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the requirements of section
620 of such Act, the Secretary may carry out
responsibilities of the Secretary under such
Act through the use of approved service pro-
viders that are paid directly by the recipi-
ents of their services.
FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION
MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee single
family loans insured under the Mutual Mort-
gage Insurance Fund shall not exceed
$400,000,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That during fis-
cal year 2019, obligations to make direct
loans to carry out the purposes of section
204(g) of the National Housing Act, as
amended, shall not exceed $1,000,000: Provided
further, That the foregoing amount in the
previous proviso shall be for loans to non-
profit and governmental entities in connec-
tion with sales of single family real prop-
erties owned by the Secretary and formerly
insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insur-
ance Fund: Provided further, That for admin-
istrative contract expenses of the Federal
Housing Administration, $130,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That to the extent guaranteed
loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on
or before April 1, 2019, an additional $1,400 for
administrative contract expenses shall be
available for each $1,000,000 in additional
guaranteed loan commitments (including a
pro rata amount for any amount below
$1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made
available by this proviso exceed $30,000,000:
Provided further, That notwithstanding the
limitation in the first sentence of section
255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1715z–20(g)), during fiscal year 2019 the Sec-
retary may insure and enter into new com-
mitments to insure mortgages under section
255 of the National Housing Act only to the
extent that the net credit subsidy cost for
such insurance does not exceed zero: Provided
further, That for fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary shall not take any action against a
lender solely on the basis of compare ratios
that have been adversely affected by defaults
on mortgages secured by properties in areas
where a major disaster was declared in 2017
or 2018 pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
GENERAL AND SPECIAL RISK PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee loans in-
sured under the General and Special Risk In-
surance Funds, as authorized by sections 238
and 519 of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–3 and 1735c), shall not exceed
$30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any
part of which is to be guaranteed, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That during fiscal year 2019, gross obliga-
tions for the principal amount of direct
loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l),
238, and 519(a) of the National Housing Act,
shall not exceed $1,000,000, which shall be for
loans to nonprofit and governmental entities
in connection with the sale of single family
real properties owned by the Secretary and
formerly insured under such Act.
GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE
ASSOCIATION
GUARANTEES OF MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to issue guarantees to
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the
National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C.
1721(g)), shall not exceed $550,000,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That $27,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, shall be for
necessary salaries and expenses of the Office
of Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion: Provided further, That to the extent
that guaranteed loan commitments exceed
$155,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2019, an
additional $100 for necessary salaries and ex-
penses shall be available until expended for
each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan
commitments (including a pro rata amount
for any amount below $1,000,000), but in no
case shall funds made available by this pro-
viso exceed $3,000,000: Provided further, That
receipts from Commitment and Multiclass
fees collected pursuant to title III of the Na-
tional Housing Act, as amended, shall be
credited as offsetting collections to this ac-
count.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For contracts, grants, and necessary ex-
penses of programs of research and studies
relating to housing and urban problems, not
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title
V of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z–1 et seq.), includ-
ing carrying out the functions of the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1968, and for technical assist-
ance, $96,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That with re-
spect to amounts made available under this
heading, notwithstanding section 203 of this
title, the Secretary may enter into coopera-
tive agreements funded with philanthropic
entities, other Federal agencies, State or
local governments and their agencies, or col-
leges or universities for research projects:
Provided further, That with respect to the
previous proviso, such partners to the coop-
erative agreements must contribute at least
a 50 percent match toward the cost of the
project: Provided further, That for non-com-
petitive agreements entered into in accord-
ance with the previous two provisos, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–282, 31 U.S.C.
note) in lieu of compliance with section
102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation of
award decisions: Provided further, That prior
to obligation of technical assistance funding,
the Secretary shall submit a plan, for ap-
proval, to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations on how it will allocate
funding for this activity: Provided further,
That none of the funds provided under this
heading may be available for the doctoral
dissertation research grant program.
FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES
For contracts, grants, and other assist-
ance, not otherwise provided for, as author-
ized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00141 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1142 January 23, 2019
1968, as amended by the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1987, as amended, $65,300,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Sec-
retary may assess and collect fees to cover
the costs of the Fair Housing Training Acad-
emy, and may use such funds to develop on-
line courses and provide such training: Pro-
vided further, That no funds made available
under this heading shall be used to lobby the
executive or legislative branches of the Fed-
eral Government in connection with a spe-
cific contract, grant, or loan: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds made available under
this heading, $300,000 shall be available to
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment for the creation and promotion of
translated materials and other programs
that support the assistance of persons with
limited English proficiency in utilizing the
services provided by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
OFFICE OF LEAD HAZARD CONTROL AND
HEALTHY HOMES
LEAD HAZARD REDUCTION
For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program,
as authorized by section 1011 of the Residen-
tial Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act
of 1992, $279,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, of which $45,000,000 shall
be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursu-
ant to sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and
Urban Development Act of 1970, which shall
include research, studies, testing, and dem-
onstration efforts, including education and
outreach concerning lead-based paint poi-
soning and other housing-related diseases
and hazards: Provided, That for purposes of
environmental review, pursuant to the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other provisions of
law that further the purposes of such Act, a
grant under the Healthy Homes Initiative, or
the Lead Technical Studies program under
this heading or under prior appropriations
Acts for such purposes under this heading,
shall be considered to be funds for a special
project for purposes of section 305(c) of the
Multifamily Housing Property Disposition
Reform Act of 1994: Provided further, That
not less than $95,000,000 of the amounts made
available under this heading for the award of
grants pursuant to section 1011 of the Resi-
dential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction
Act of 1992 shall be provided to areas with
the highest lead-based paint abatement
needs: Provided further, That $64,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be for the implementation of projects to
demonstrate how intensive, extended multi-
year interventions can dramatically reduce
the presence of lead-based paint hazards in
communities containing high concentrations
of both pre-1940 housing and low-income fam-
ilies by achieving economies of scale that
substantially reduce the cost of lead-based
paint remediation activities and administra-
tive costs for grantees: Provided further, That
such projects in each of seven communities
shall be for five years and serve no more
than four contiguous census tracts in which
there are high concentrations of housing
stock built before 1940, in which low-income
families with children make up a signifi-
cantly higher proportion of the population as
compared to the State average, and that are
located in jurisdictions in which instances of
elevated blood lead levels reported to the
State are significantly higher than the State
average: Provided further, That funding
awarded for such projects shall be made
available for draw down contingent upon the
grantee meeting cost-savings, productivity,
and grant compliance benchmarks estab-
lished by the Secretary: Provided further,
That each recipient of funds for such
projects shall contribute an amount not less
than 10 percent of the total award, and that
the Secretary shall give priority to appli-
cants that secure commitments for addi-
tional contributions from public and private
sources: Provided further, That grantees cur-
rently receiving grants made under this
heading shall be eligible to apply for such
projects, provided that they are deemed to be
in compliance with program requirements
established by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That each applicant shall certify ade-
quate capacity that is acceptable to the Sec-
retary to carry out the proposed use of funds
pursuant to a notice of funding availability:
Provided further, That amounts made avail-
able under this heading in this or prior ap-
propriations Acts, still remaining available,
may be used for any purpose under this head-
ing notwithstanding the purpose for which
such amounts were appropriated if a pro-
gram competition is undersubscribed and
there are other program competitions under
this heading that are oversubscribed.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FUND
For the development, modernization, and
enhancement of, modifications to, and infra-
structure for Department-wide and program-
specific information technology systems, for
the continuing operation and maintenance of
both Department-wide and program-specific
information systems, and for program-re-
lated maintenance activities, $280,000,000, of
which $260,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2020, and of which
$20,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That any amounts
transferred to this Fund under this Act shall
remain available until expended: Provided
further, That any amounts transferred to
this Fund from amounts appropriated by pre-
viously enacted appropriations Acts may be
used for the purposes specified under this
Fund, in addition to any other information
technology purposes for which such amounts
were appropriated: Provided further, That not
more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for develop-
ment, modernization and enhancement may
be obligated until the Secretary submits to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations, for approval, a plan for expendi-
ture that—(A) identifies for each moderniza-
tion project: (i) the functional and perform-
ance capabilities to be delivered and the mis-
sion benefits to be realized, (ii) the esti-
mated life-cycle cost, and (iii) key mile-
stones to be met; and (B) demonstrates that
each modernization project is: (i) compliant
with the Department’s enterprise architec-
ture, (ii) being managed in accordance with
applicable life-cycle management policies
and guidance, (iii) subject to the Depart-
ment’s capital planning and investment con-
trol requirements, and (iv) supported by an
adequately staffed project office.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Inspector General in carrying out
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amend-
ed, $128,082,000: Provided, That the Inspector
General shall have independent authority
over all personnel issues within this office.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
SEC. 201. Fifty percent of the amounts of
budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 per-
cent of the cash amounts associated with
such budget authority, that are recaptured
from projects described in section 1012(a) of
the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assist-
ance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f
note) shall be rescinded or in the case of
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and
such amounts of budget authority or cash re-
captured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury shall be used by State housing
finance agencies or local governments or
local housing agencies with projects ap-
proved by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development for which settlement oc-
curred after January 1, 1992, in accordance
with such section. Notwithstanding the pre-
vious sentence, the Secretary may award up
to 15 percent of the budget authority or cash
recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury to provide project owners with
incentives to refinance their project at a
lower interest rate.
SEC. 202. None of the amounts made avail-
able under this Act may be used during fiscal
year 2019 to investigate or prosecute under
the Fair Housing Act any otherwise lawful
activity engaged in by one or more persons,
including the filing or maintaining of a non-
frivolous legal action, that is engaged in
solely for the purpose of achieving or pre-
venting action by a Government official or
entity, or a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 203. Except as explicitly provided in
law, any grant, cooperative agreement or
other assistance made pursuant to title II of
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis
and in accordance with section 102 of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
SEC. 204. Funds of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development subject to the
Government Corporation Control Act or sec-
tion 402 of the Housing Act of 1950 shall be
available, without regard to the limitations
on administrative expenses, for legal serv-
ices on a contract or fee basis, and for uti-
lizing and making payment for services and
facilities of the Federal National Mortgage
Association, Government National Mortgage
Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Fed-
eral Reserve banks or any member thereof,
Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured
bank within the meaning of the Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended
(12 U.S.C. 1811–1).
SEC. 205. Unless otherwise provided for in
this Act or through a reprogramming of
funds, no part of any appropriation for the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment shall be available for any program,
project or activity in excess of amounts set
forth in the budget estimates submitted to
Congress.
SEC. 206. Corporations and agencies of the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment which are subject to the Government
Corporation Control Act are hereby author-
ized to make such expenditures, within the
limits of funds and borrowing authority
available to each such corporation or agency
and in accordance with law, and to make
such contracts and commitments without re-
gard to fiscal year limitations as provided by
section 104 of such Act as may be necessary
in carrying out the programs set forth in the
budget for 2019 for such corporation or agen-
cy except as hereinafter provided: Provided,
That collections of these corporations and
agencies may be used for new loan or mort-
gage purchase commitments only to the ex-
tent expressly provided for in this Act (un-
less such loans are in support of other forms
of assistance provided for in this or prior ap-
propriations Acts), except that this proviso
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or
guaranty operations of these corporations,
or where loans or mortgage purchases are
necessary to protect the financial interest of
the United States Government.
SEC. 207. The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall provide quarterly
reports to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations regarding all uncommit-
ted, unobligated, recaptured and excess funds
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00142 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1143
January 23, 2019
in each program and activity within the ju-
risdiction of the Department and shall sub-
mit additional, updated budget information
to these Committees upon request.
SEC. 208. The President’s formal budget re-
quest for fiscal year 2020, as well as the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment’s congressional budget justifications to
be submitted to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, shall use the identical ac-
count and sub-account structure provided
under this Act.
SEC. 209. No funds provided under this title
may be used for an audit of the Government
National Mortgage Association that makes
applicable requirements under the Federal
Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et
seq.).
SEC. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, subject to the conditions
listed under this section, for fiscal years 2019
and 2020, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development may authorize the transfer of
some or all project-based assistance, debt
held or insured by the Secretary and statu-
torily required low-income and very low-in-
come use restrictions if any, associated with
one or more multifamily housing project or
projects to another multifamily housing
project or projects.
(b) PHASED TRANSFERS.—Transfers of
project-based assistance under this section
may be done in phases to accommodate the
financing and other requirements related to
rehabilitating or constructing the project or
projects to which the assistance is trans-
ferred, to ensure that such project or
projects meet the standards under subsection
(c).
(c) The transfer authorized in subsection
(a) is subject to the following conditions:
(1) NUMBER AND BEDROOM SIZE OF UNITS.—
(A) For occupied units in the transferring
project: The number of low-income and very
low-income units and the configuration (i.e.,
bedroom size) provided by the transferring
project shall be no less than when trans-
ferred to the receiving project or projects
and the net dollar amount of Federal assist-
ance provided to the transferring project
shall remain the same in the receiving
project or projects.
(B) For unoccupied units in the transfer-
ring project: The Secretary may authorize a
reduction in the number of dwelling units in
the receiving project or projects to allow for
a reconfiguration of bedroom sizes to meet
current market demands, as determined by
the Secretary and provided there is no in-
crease in the project-based assistance budget
authority.
(2) The transferring project shall, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, be either physically
obsolete or economically nonviable.
(3) The receiving project or projects shall
meet or exceed applicable physical standards
established by the Secretary.
(4) The owner or mortgagor of the transfer-
ring project shall notify and consult with the
tenants residing in the transferring project
and provide a certification of approval by all
appropriate local governmental officials.
(5) The tenants of the transferring project
who remain eligible for assistance to be pro-
vided by the receiving project or projects
shall not be required to vacate their units in
the transferring project or projects until new
units in the receiving project are available
for occupancy.
(6) The Secretary determines that this
transfer is in the best interest of the tenants.
(7) If either the transferring project or the
receiving project or projects meets the con-
dition specified in subsection (d)(2)(A), any
lien on the receiving project resulting from
additional financing obtained by the owner
shall be subordinate to any FHA-insured
mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on,
such project by the Secretary, except that
the Secretary may waive this requirement
upon determination that such a waiver is
necessary to facilitate the financing of ac-
quisition, construction, and/or rehabilitation
of the receiving project or projects.
(8) If the transferring project meets the re-
quirements of subsection (d)(2), the owner or
mortgagor of the receiving project or
projects shall execute and record either a
continuation of the existing use agreement
or a new use agreement for the project
where, in either case, any use restrictions in
such agreement are of no lesser duration
than the existing use restrictions.
(9) The transfer does not increase the cost
(as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, as amended) of any
FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent
that appropriations are provided in advance
for the amount of any such increased cost.
(d) For purposes of this section—
(1) the terms ‘‘low-income’’ and ‘‘very low-
income’’ shall have the meanings provided
by the statute and/or regulations governing
the program under which the project is in-
sured or assisted;
(2) the term ‘‘multifamily housing project’’
means housing that meets one of the fol-
lowing conditions—
(A) housing that is subject to a mortgage
insured under the National Housing Act;
(B) housing that has project-based assist-
ance attached to the structure including
projects undergoing mark to market debt re-
structuring under the Multifamily Assisted
Housing Reform and Affordability Housing
Act;
(C) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by
section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzales Na-
tional Affordable Housing Act;
(D) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as such sec-
tion existed before the enactment of the
Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable
Housing Act;
(E) housing that is assisted under section
811 of the Cranston-Gonzales National Af-
fordable Housing Act; or
(F) housing or vacant land that is subject
to a use agreement;
(3) the term ‘‘project-based assistance’’
means—
(A) assistance provided under section 8(b)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(B) assistance for housing constructed or
substantially rehabilitated pursuant to as-
sistance provided under section 8(b)(2) of
such Act (as such section existed imme-
diately before October 1, 1983);
(C) rent supplement payments under sec-
tion 101 of the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Act of 1965;
(D) interest reduction payments under sec-
tion 236 and/or additional assistance pay-
ments under section 236(f)(2) of the National
Housing Act;
(E) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
(F) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez Na-
tional Affordable Housing Act;
(4) the term ‘‘receiving project or projects’’
means the multifamily housing project or
projects to which some or all of the project-
based assistance, debt, and statutorily re-
quired low-income and very low-income use
restrictions are to be transferred;
(5) the term ‘‘transferring project’’ means
the multifamily housing project which is
transferring some or all of the project-based
assistance, debt, and the statutorily required
low-income and very low-income use restric-
tions to the receiving project or projects;
and
(6) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development.
(e) RESEARCH REPORT.—The Secretary
shall conduct an evaluation of the transfer
authority under this section, including the
effect of such transfers on the operational ef-
ficiency, contract rents, physical and finan-
cial conditions, and long-term preservation
of the affected properties.
SEC. 211. (a) No assistance shall be provided
under section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any individual
who—
(1) is enrolled as a student at an institu-
tion of higher education (as defined under
section 102 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
(2) is under 24 years of age;
(3) is not a veteran;
(4) is unmarried;
(5) does not have a dependent child;
(6) is not a person with disabilities, as such
term is defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving assist-
ance under such section 8 as of November 30,
2005;
(7) is not a youth who left foster care at
age 14 or older and is at risk of becoming
homeless; and
(8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or
has parents who, individually or jointly, are
not eligible, to receive assistance under sec-
tion 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(b) For purposes of determining the eligi-
bility of a person to receive assistance under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance
(in excess of amounts received for tuition
and any other required fees and charges)
that an individual receives under the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.),
from private sources, or an institution of
higher education (as defined under the High-
er Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002)),
shall be considered income to that indi-
vidual, except for a person over the age of 23
with dependent children.
SEC. 212. The funds made available for Na-
tive Alaskans under the heading ‘‘Native
American Housing Block Grants’’ in title II
of this Act shall be allocated to the same Na-
tive Alaskan housing block grant recipients
that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
SEC. 213. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, in fiscal year 2019, in managing
and disposing of any multifamily property
that is owned or has a mortgage held by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and during the process of foreclosure
on any property with a contract for rental
assistance payments under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 or other
Federal programs, the Secretary shall main-
tain any rental assistance payments under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 and other programs that are attached to
any dwelling units in the property. To the
extent the Secretary determines, in con-
sultation with the tenants and the local gov-
ernment, that such a multifamily property
owned or held by the Secretary is not fea-
sible for continued rental assistance pay-
ments under such section 8 or other pro-
grams, based on consideration of (1) the costs
of rehabilitating and operating the property
and all available Federal, State, and local re-
sources, including rent adjustments under
section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted Hous-
ing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997
(‘‘MAHRAA’’) and (2) environmental condi-
tions that cannot be remedied in a cost-ef-
fective fashion, the Secretary may, in con-
sultation with the tenants of that property,
contract for project-based rental assistance
payments with an owner or owners of other
existing housing properties, or provide other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00143 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1144 January 23, 2019
rental assistance. The Secretary shall also
take appropriate steps to ensure that
project-based contracts remain in effect
prior to foreclosure, subject to the exercise
of contractual abatement remedies to assist
relocation of tenants for imminent major
threats to health and safety after written
notice to and informed consent of the af-
fected tenants and use of other available
remedies, such as partial abatements or re-
ceivership. After disposition of any multi-
family property described under this section,
the contract and allowable rent levels on
such properties shall be subject to the re-
quirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
SEC. 214. The commitment authority fund-
ed by fees as provided under the heading
‘‘Community Development Loan Guarantees
Program Account’’ may be used to guar-
antee, or make commitments to guarantee,
notes, or other obligations issued by any
State on behalf of non-entitlement commu-
nities in the State in accordance with the re-
quirements of section 108 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974: Pro-
vided, That any State receiving such a guar-
antee or commitment shall distribute all
funds subject to such guarantee to the units
of general local government in non-entitle-
ment areas that received the commitment.
SEC. 215. Public housing agencies that own
and operate 400 or fewer public housing units
may elect to be exempt from any asset man-
agement requirement imposed by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development in
connection with the operating fund rule: Pro-
vided, That an agency seeking a discontinu-
ance of a reduction of subsidy under the op-
erating fund formula shall not be exempt
from asset management requirements.
SEC. 216. With respect to the use of
amounts provided in this Act and in future
Acts for the operation, capital improvement
and management of public housing as au-
thorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g(d) and (e)), the Secretary shall not im-
pose any requirement or guideline relating
to asset management that restricts or limits
in any way the use of capital funds for cen-
tral office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or
9(g)(2) of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)): Provided, That
a public housing agency may not use capital
funds authorized under section 9(d) for ac-
tivities that are eligible under section 9(e)
for assistance with amounts from the oper-
ating fund in excess of the amounts per-
mitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
SEC. 217. No official or employee of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
shall be designated as an allotment holder
unless the Office of the Chief Financial Offi-
cer has determined that such allotment hold-
er has implemented an adequate system of
funds control and has received training in
funds control procedures and directives. The
Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that
there is a trained allotment holder for each
HUD appropriation under the accounts ‘‘Ex-
ecutive Offices’’ and ‘‘Administrative Sup-
port Offices,’’ as well as each account receiv-
ing appropriations under the general heading
‘‘Program Office Salaries and Expenses’’,
‘‘Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion—Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed Secu-
rities Loan Guarantee Program Account’’,
and ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ within the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
SEC. 218. The Secretary of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development shall, for
fiscal year 2019, notify the public through
the Federal Register and other means, as de-
termined appropriate, of the issuance of a
notice of the availability of assistance or no-
tice of funding availability (NOFA) for any
program or discretionary fund administered
by the Secretary that is to be competitively
awarded. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary
may make the NOFA available only on the
Internet at the appropriate Government web
site or through other electronic media, as de-
termined by the Secretary.
SEC. 219. Payment of attorney fees in pro-
gram-related litigation shall be paid from
the individual program office and Office of
General Counsel salaries and expenses appro-
priations. The annual budget submission for
the program offices and the Office of General
Counsel shall include any such projected liti-
gation costs for attorney fees as a separate
line item request. No funds provided in this
title may be used to pay any such litigation
costs for attorney fees until the Department
submits for review a spending plan for such
costs to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 220. The Secretary is authorized to
transfer up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, which-
ever is less, of funds appropriated for any of-
fice under the heading ‘‘Administrative Sup-
port Offices’’ or for any account under the
general heading ‘‘Program Office Salaries
and Expenses’’ to any other such office or ac-
count: Provided, That no appropriation for
any such office or account shall be increased
or decreased by more than 10 percent or
$5,000,000, whichever is less, without prior
written approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall provide notifi-
cation to such Committees three business
days in advance of any such transfers under
this section up to 10 percent or $5,000,000,
whichever is less.
SEC. 221. (a) Any entity receiving housing
assistance payments shall maintain decent,
safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Secretary’’), and comply with any stand-
ards under applicable State or local laws,
rules, ordinances, or regulations relating to
the physical condition of any property cov-
ered under a housing assistance payment
contract.
(b) The Secretary shall take action under
subsection (c) when a multifamily housing
project with a section 8 contract or contract
for similar project-based assistance—
(1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition
Standards (UPCS) score of 60 or less; or
(2) fails to certify in writing to the Sec-
retary within 3 days that all Exigent Health
and Safety deficiencies identified by the in-
spector at the project have been corrected.
Such requirements shall apply to insured
and noninsured projects with assistance at-
tached to the units under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f), but do not apply to such units assisted
under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13))
or to public housing units assisted with cap-
ital or operating funds under section 9 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g).
(c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the
REAC inspection, the Secretary must pro-
vide the owner with a Notice of Default with
a specified timetable, determined by the Sec-
retary, for correcting all deficiencies. The
Secretary must also provide a copy of the
Notice of Default to the tenants, the local
government, any mortgagees, and any con-
tract administrator. If the owner’s appeal re-
sults in a UPCS score of 60 or above, the Sec-
retary may withdraw the Notice of Default.
(2) At the end of the time period for cor-
recting all deficiencies specified in the No-
tice of Default, if the owner fails to fully cor-
rect such deficiencies, the Secretary may—
(A) require immediate replacement of
project management with a management
agent approved by the Secretary;
(B) impose civil money penalties, which
shall be used solely for the purpose of sup-
porting safe and sanitary conditions at appli-
cable properties, as designated by the Sec-
retary, with priority given to the tenants of
the property affected by the penalty;
(C) abate the section 8 contract, including
partial abatement, as determined by the Sec-
retary, until all deficiencies have been cor-
rected;
(D) pursue transfer of the project to an
owner, approved by the Secretary under es-
tablished procedures, which will be obligated
to promptly make all required repairs and to
accept renewal of the assistance contract as
long as such renewal is offered;
(E) transfer the existing section 8 contract
to another project or projects and owner or
owners;
(F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, includ-
ing suspensions or debarments from Federal
programs;
(G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver
to manage the property and cure all project
deficiencies or seek a judicial order of spe-
cific performance requiring the owner to
cure all project deficiencies;
(H) work with the owner, lender, or other
related party to stabilize the property in an
attempt to preserve the property through
compliance, transfer of ownership, or an in-
fusion of capital provided by a third-party
that requires time to effectuate; or
(I) take any other regulatory or contrac-
tual remedies available as deemed necessary
and appropriate by the Secretary.
(d) The Secretary shall also take appro-
priate steps to ensure that project-based con-
tracts remain in effect, subject to the exer-
cise of contractual abatement remedies to
assist relocation of tenants for major threats
to health and safety after written notice to
the affected tenants. To the extent the Sec-
retary determines, in consultation with the
tenants and the local government, that the
property is not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments under such section 8 or
other programs, based on consideration of—
(1) the costs of rehabilitating and oper-
ating the property and all available Federal,
State, and local resources, including rent ad-
justments under section 524 of the Multi-
family Assisted Housing Reform and Afford-
ability Act of 1997 (‘‘MAHRAA’’); and
(2) environmental conditions that cannot
be remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the
Secretary may contract for project-based
rental assistance payments with an owner or
owners of other existing housing properties,
or provide other rental assistance.
(e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on
all properties covered by this section that
are assessed through the Real Estate Assess-
ment Center and have UPCS physical inspec-
tion scores of less than 60 or have received
an unsatisfactory management and occu-
pancy review within the past 36 months. The
report shall include—
(1) the enforcement actions being taken to
address such conditions, including imposi-
tion of civil money penalties and termi-
nation of subsidies, and identify properties
that have such conditions multiple times;
(2) actions that the Department of Housing
and Urban Development is taking to protect
tenants of such identified properties; and
(3) any administrative or legislative rec-
ommendations to further improve the living
conditions at properties covered under a
housing assistance payment contract.
This report shall be due to the Senate and
House Committees on Appropriations no
later than 30 days after the enactment of
this Act, and on the first business day of
each Federal fiscal year quarter thereafter
while this section remains in effect.
SEC. 222. None of the funds made available
by this Act, or any other Act, for purposes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00144 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1145
January 23, 2019
authorized under section 8 (only with respect
to the tenant-based rental assistance pro-
gram) and section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.),
may be used by any public housing agency
for any amount of salary, including bonuses,
for the chief executive officer of which, or
any other official or employee of which, that
exceeds the annual rate of basic pay payable
for a position at level IV of the Executive
Schedule at any time during any public
housing agency fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 223. None of the funds in this Act pro-
vided to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development may be used to make a
grant award unless the Secretary notifies
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations not less than 3 full business days
before any project, State, locality, housing
authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or
other entity selected to receive a grant
award is announced by the Department or its
offices.
SEC. 224. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to require or enforce
the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
SEC. 225. None of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used by the Federal
Housing Administration, the Government
National Mortgage Administration, or the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to insure, securitize, or establish a
Federal guarantee of any mortgage or mort-
gage backed security that refinances or oth-
erwise replaces a mortgage that has been
subject to eminent domain condemnation or
seizure, by a State, municipality, or any
other political subdivision of a State.
SEC. 226. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to terminate the
status of a unit of general local government
as a metropolitan city (as defined in section
102 of the Housing and Community Develop-
ment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect
to grants under section 106 of such Act (42
U.S.C. 5306).
SEC. 227. Amounts made available under
this Act which are either appropriated, allo-
cated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or
transferred to the Office of Policy Develop-
ment and Research in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and func-
tions thereof, for research, evaluation, or
statistical purposes, and which are unex-
pended at the time of completion of a con-
tract, grant, or cooperative agreement, may
be deobligated and shall immediately be-
come available and may be reobligated in
that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year
for the research, evaluation, or statistical
purposes for which the amounts are made
available to that Office subject to re-
programming requirements in section 405 of
this Act.
SEC. 228. None of the funds provided in this
Act or any other act may be used for awards,
including performance, special act, or spot,
for any employee of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development subject to ad-
ministrative discipline (including suspension
from work), in this or the prior fiscal year,
but this prohibition shall not be effective
prior to the effective date of any such admin-
istrative discipline or after any final deci-
sion over-turning such discipline.
SEC. 229. Funds made available in this title
under the heading ‘‘Homeless Assistance
Grants’’ may be used by the Secretary to
participate in Performance Partnership Pi-
lots authorized under section 526 of division
H of Public Law 113–76, section 524 of division
G of Public Law 113–235, section 525 of divi-
sion H of Public Law 114–113, and such au-
thorities as are enacted for Performance
Partnership Pilots in an appropriations Act
for fiscal year 2019: Provided, That such par-
ticipation shall be limited to no more than
10 continuums of care and housing activities
to improve outcomes for disconnected youth.
SEC. 230. With respect to grant amounts
awarded under the heading ‘‘Homeless As-
sistance Grants’’ for fiscal years 2015, 2016,
2017, 2018 and 2019 for the continuum of care
(CoC) program as authorized under subtitle C
of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless
Assistance Act, costs paid by program in-
come of grant recipients may count toward
meeting the recipient’s matching require-
ments, provided the costs are eligible CoC
costs that supplement the recipient’s CoC
program.
SEC. 231. (a) From amounts made available
under this title under the heading ‘‘Homeless
Assistance Grants’’, the Secretary may
award 1-year transition grants to recipients
of funds for activities under subtitle C of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) to transition from
one Continuum of Care program component
to another.
(b) No more than 50 percent of each transi-
tion grant may be used for costs of eligible
activities of the program component origi-
nally funded.
(c) Transition grants made under this sec-
tion are eligible for renewal in subsequent
fiscal years for the eligible activities of the
new program component.
(d) In order to be eligible to receive a tran-
sition grant, the funding recipient must have
the consent of the Continuum of Care and
meet standards determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 232. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development to direct
a grantee to undertake specific changes to
existing zoning laws as part of carrying out
the final rule entitled ‘‘Affirmatively Fur-
thering Fair Housing’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 42272
(July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled ‘‘Af-
firmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assess-
ment Tool’’ (79 Fed. Reg. 57949 (September
26, 2014)).
SEC. 233. Section 218(g) of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with re-
spect to the right of a jurisdiction to draw
funds from its HOME Investment Trust Fund
that otherwise expired or would expire in
2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, or 2021 under that
section. Section 231(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
12771(b)) shall not apply to any uninvested
funds that otherwise were deducted or would
be deducted from the line of credit in the
participating jurisdiction’s HOME Invest-
ment Trust Fund in 2018, 2019, 2020, or 2021
under that section.
SEC. 234. Amounts made available in title
II of division K of the Consolidated Appro-
priations Resolution, 2003 (Public Law 108–7)
under the heading ‘‘Indian Housing Loan
Guarantee Fund Program Account’’ for nec-
essary expenses of the Land Title Report
Commission are rescinded.
SEC. 235. (a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development (in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) may
carry out a mobility demonstration program
to enable public housing agencies to admin-
ister housing choice voucher assistance
under section 8(o) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) in a man-
ner designed to encourage families receiving
such voucher assistance to move to lower-
poverty areas and expand access to oppor-
tunity areas.
(b) SELECTION OF PHAS.—
(1) REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish requirements for public housing
agencies to participate in the demonstration
program under this section, which shall pro-
vide that the following public housing agen-
cies may participate:
(A) Public housing agencies that to-
gether—
(i) serve areas with high concentrations of
holders of rental assistance vouchers under
section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) in poor, low-oppor-
tunity neighborhoods; and
(ii) have an adequate number of mod-
erately priced rental units in higher-oppor-
tunity areas.
(B) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) include at least one agency with a high-
performing Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS)
program; and
(ii) will enable participating families to
continue in such program if they relocate to
the jurisdiction served by any other agency
of the consortium.
(C) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) serve jurisdictions within a single re-
gion;
(ii) include one or more small agencies;
and
(iii) will consolidate mobility focused oper-
ations.
(D) Such other public housing agencies as
the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2) SELECTION CRITERIA.—The Secretary
shall establish competitive selection criteria
for public housing agencies eligible under
paragraph (1) to participate in the dem-
onstration program under this section.
(3) RANDOM SELECTION OF FAMILIES.—The
Secretary may require participating agen-
cies to use a randomized selection process to
select among the families eligible to receive
mobility assistance under the demonstration
program.
(c) REGIONAL HOUSING MOBILITY PLAN.—
The Secretary shall require each public
housing agency applying to participate in
the demonstration program under this sec-
tion to submit a Regional Housing Mobility
Plan (in this section referred to as a ‘‘Plan’’),
which shall—
(1) identify the public housing agencies
that will participate under the Plan and the
number of vouchers each participating agen-
cy will make available out of their existing
programs in connection with the demonstra-
tion;
(2) identify any community-based organi-
zations, nonprofit organizations, businesses,
and other entities that will participate under
the Plan and describe the commitments for
such participation made by each such entity;
(3) identify any waivers or alternative re-
quirements under subparagraph (e) requested
for the execution of the Plan;
(4) identify any specific actions that the
public housing agencies and other entities
will undertake to accomplish the goals of the
demonstration, which shall include a com-
prehensive approach to enable a successful
transition to opportunity areas and may in-
clude counseling and continued support for
families;
(5) specify the criteria that the public
housing agencies would use to identify op-
portunity areas under the plan;
(6) provide for establishment of priority
and preferences for participating families,
including a preference for families with
young children, as such term is defined by
the Secretary, based on regional housing
needs and priorities; and
(7) comply with any other requirements es-
tablished by the Secretary.
(d) FUNDING FOR MOBILITY-RELATED SERV-
ICES.—
(1) USE OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.—Public
housing agencies participating in the dem-
onstration program under this section may
use administrative fees under section 8(q) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437f(q)), their administrative fee re-
serves, and funding from private entities to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00145 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1146 January 23, 2019
provide mobility-related services in connec-
tion with the demonstration program, in-
cluding services such as counseling, port-
ability coordination, landlord outreach, se-
curity deposits, and administrative activi-
ties associated with establishing and oper-
ating regional mobility programs.
(2) USE OF HOUSING ASSISTANCE FUNDS.—
Public housing agencies participating in the
demonstration under this section may use
housing assistance payments funds under
section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) for security depos-
its if necessary to enable families to lease
units with vouchers in designated oppor-
tunity areas.
(e) WAIVERS; ALTERNATIVE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
(1) WAIVERS.—To allow for public housing
agencies to implement and administer their
Regional Housing Mobility Plans, the Sec-
retary may waive or specify alternative re-
quirements for the following provisions of
the United States Housing Act of 1937:
(A) Sections 8(o)(7)(A) and 8(o)(13)(E)(i) (re-
lating to the term of a lease and mobility re-
quirements).
(B) Section 8(o)(13)(C)(i) (relating to the
public housing plan for an agency).
(C) Section 8(r)(2) (relating to the responsi-
bility of a public housing agency to admin-
ister ported assistance).
(2) ALTERNATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR CON-
SORTIA.—The Secretary shall provide alter-
native administrative requirements for pub-
lic housing agencies in a selected region to—
(A) form a consortium that has a single
housing choice voucher funding contract; or
(B) enter into a partial consortium to oper-
ate all or portions of the Regional Housing
Mobility Plan, which may include agencies
participating in the Moving To Work Dem-
onstration program.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Any waiver or alter-
native requirements pursuant to this sub-
section shall not take effect before the expi-
ration of the 10-day period beginning upon
publication of notice of such waiver or alter-
native requirement in the Federal Register.
(f) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary may
implement the demonstration, including its
terms, procedures, requirements, and condi-
tions, by notice.
(g) EVALUATION.—Not later than five years
after implementation of the regional housing
mobility programs under the demonstration
program under this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Congress and publish in
the Federal Register a report evaluating the
effectiveness of the strategies pursued under
the demonstration, subject to the avail-
ability of funding to conduct the evaluation.
Through official websites and other methods,
the Secretary shall disseminate interim find-
ings as they become available, and shall, if
promising strategies are identified, notify
the Congress of the amount of funds that
would be required to expand the testing of
these strategies in additional types of public
housing agencies and housing markets.
(h) TERMINATION.—The demonstration pro-
gram under this section shall terminate on
October 1, 2028.
SEC. 236. Section 221 of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development Appropria-
tions Act, 2015 (42 U.S.C. 1437f–1; Public Law
113–235; 128 Stat 2754) is repealed.
SEC. 237. The Promise Zone designations
and Promise Zone Designation Agreements
entered into pursuant to such designations,
made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development in prior fiscal years, shall re-
main in effect in accordance with the terms
and conditions of such agreements.
SEC. 238. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to establish and
apply review criteria, including rating fac-
tors or preference points, for participation in
or coordination with EnVision Centers, in
the evaluation, selection, and award of any
funds made available and requiring competi-
tive selection under this Act, except with re-
spect to any such funds otherwise authorized
for EnVision Center purposes under this Act.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Housing and Urban Development Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE III
RELATED AGENCIES
ACCESS BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the Access
Board, as authorized by section 502 of the Re-
habilitation Act of 1973, as amended,
$8,400,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, there may be
credited to this appropriation funds received
for publications and training expenses.
FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Mar-
itime Commission as authorized by section
201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances there-
fore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902,
$27,490,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses.
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General for the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation to carry out the pro-
visions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
as amended, $23,274,000: Provided, That the
Inspector General shall have all necessary
authority, in carrying out the duties speci-
fied in the Inspector General Act, as amend-
ed (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allega-
tions of fraud, including false statements to
the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any per-
son or entity that is subject to regulation by
the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion: Provided further, That the Inspector
General may enter into contracts and other
arrangements for audits, studies, analyses,
and other services with public agencies and
with private persons, subject to the applica-
ble laws and regulations that govern the ob-
taining of such services within the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation: Provided
further, That the Inspector General may se-
lect, appoint, and employ such officers and
employees as may be necessary for carrying
out the functions, powers, and duties of the
Office of Inspector General, subject to the
applicable laws and regulations that govern
such selections, appointments, and employ-
ment within the Corporation: Provided fur-
ther, That concurrent with the President’s
budget request for fiscal year 2020, the In-
spector General shall submit to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a
budget request for fiscal year 2020 in similar
format and substance to those submitted by
executive agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National
Transportation Safety Board, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS–15;
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as author-
ized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–5902), $110,400,000, of
which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for
official reception and representation ex-
penses. The amounts made available to the
National Transportation Safety Board in
this Act include amounts necessary to make
lease payments on an obligation incurred in
fiscal year 2001 for a capital lease.
NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
For payment to the Neighborhood Rein-
vestment Corporation for use in neighbor-
hood reinvestment activities, as authorized
by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corpora-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 8101–8107), $150,000,000, of
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family
rental housing program: Provided, That an
additional $2,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023, shall be for the pro-
motion and development of shared equity
housing models.
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Surface
Transportation Board, including services au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, not to exceed $1,250,000 from fees estab-
lished by the Chairman of the Surface Trans-
portation Board shall be credited to this ap-
propriation as offsetting collections and used
for necessary and authorized expenses under
this heading: Provided further, That the sum
herein appropriated from the general fund
shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis
as such offsetting collections are received
during fiscal year 2019, to result in a final ap-
propriation from the general fund estimated
at no more than $35,850,000.
UNITED STATES INTERAGENCY COUNCIL ON
HOMELESSNESS
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses (including payment
of salaries, authorized travel, hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles, the rental of con-
ference rooms, and the employment of ex-
perts and consultants under section 3109 of
title 5, United States Code) of the United
States Interagency Council on Homelessness
in carrying out the functions pursuant to
title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless As-
sistance Act, as amended, $3,600,000: Provided,
That the first proviso in Public Law 115–141
under the heading ‘‘United States Inter-
agency Council on Homelessness—Operating
Expenses’’ is amended by striking ‘‘2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘2028’’.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 401. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 402. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 403. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through a procurement contract pursu-
ant to section 3109 of title 5, United States
Code, shall be limited to those contracts
where such expenditures are a matter of pub-
lic record and available for public inspection,
except where otherwise provided under exist-
ing law, or under existing Executive order
issued pursuant to existing law.
SEC. 404. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended for any employee training that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00146 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1147
January 23, 2019
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 405. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that—
(1) creates a new program;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel for any
program, project, or activity for which funds
have been denied or restricted by the Con-
gress;
(4) proposes to use funds directed for a spe-
cific activity by either the House or Senate
Committees on Appropriations for a dif-
ferent purpose;
(5) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 per-
cent, whichever is less;
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or
activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, which-
ever is less; or
(7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a
branch, division, office, bureau, board, com-
mission, agency, administration, or depart-
ment different from the budget justifications
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions or the table accompanying the joint ex-
planatory statement accompanying this Act,
whichever is more detailed, unless prior ap-
proval is received from the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, each agency funded
by this Act shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the Senate and
of the House of Representatives to establish
the baseline for application of reprogram-
ming and transfer authorities for the current
fiscal year: Provided further, That the report
shall include—
(A) a table for each appropriation with a
separate column to display the prior year en-
acted level, the President’s budget request,
adjustments made by Congress, adjustments
due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate,
and the fiscal year enacted level;
(B) a delineation in the table for each ap-
propriation and its respective prior year en-
acted level by object class and program,
project, and activity as detailed in this Act,
the table accompanying the explanatory
statement accompanying this Act, accom-
panying reports of the House and Senate
Committee on Appropriations, or in the
budget appendix for the respective appro-
priations, whichever is more detailed, and
shall apply to all items for which a dollar
amount is specified and to all programs for
which new budget (obligational) authority is
provided, as well as to discretionary grants
and discretionary grant allocations; and
(C) an identification of items of special
congressional interest.
SEC. 406. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the House and Senate Commit-
tees on Appropriations for approval prior to
the expenditure of such funds: Provided fur-
ther, That these requests shall be made in
compliance with reprogramming guidelines
under section 405 of this Act.
SEC. 407. No funds in this Act may be used
to support any Federal, State, or local
projects that seek to use the power of emi-
nent domain, unless eminent domain is em-
ployed only for a public use: Provided, That
for purposes of this section, public use shall
not be construed to include economic devel-
opment that primarily benefits private enti-
ties: Provided further, That any use of funds
for mass transit, railroad, airport, seaport or
highway projects, as well as utility projects
which benefit or serve the general public (in-
cluding energy-related, communication-re-
lated, water-related and wastewater-related
infrastructure), other structures designated
for use by the general public or which have
other common-carrier or public-utility func-
tions that serve the general public and are
subject to regulation and oversight by the
government, and projects for the removal of
an immediate threat to public health and
safety or brownfields as defined in the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields
Revitalization Act (Public Law 107–118) shall
be considered a public use for purposes of
eminent domain.
SEC. 408. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 409. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be available to pay
the salary for any person filling a position,
other than a temporary position, formerly
held by an employee who has left to enter
the Armed Forces of the United States and
has satisfactorily completed his or her pe-
riod of active military or naval service, and
has within 90 days after his or her release
from such service or from hospitalization
continuing after discharge for a period of not
more than 1 year, made application for res-
toration to his or her former position and
has been certified by the Office of Personnel
Management as still qualified to perform the
duties of his or her former position and has
not been restored thereto.
SEC. 410. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with sec-
tions 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933
(41 U.S.C. 8301–8305, popularly known as the
‘‘Buy American Act’’).
SEC. 411. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating the Buy
American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301–8305).
SEC. 412. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used for first-class airline
accommodations in contravention of sec-
tions 301–10.122 and 301–10.123 of title 41, Code
of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 413. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to approve a
new foreign air carrier permit under sections
41301 through 41305 of title 49, United States
Code, or exemption application under section
40109 of that title of an air carrier already
holding an air operators certificate issued by
a country that is party to the U.S.-E.U.-Ice-
land-Norway Air Transport Agreement
where such approval would contravene
United States law or Article 17 bis of the
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport
Agreement.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict or otherwise preclude the Secretary
of Transportation from granting a foreign
air carrier permit or an exemption to such
an air carrier where such authorization is
consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Nor-
way Air Transport Agreement and United
States law.
SEC. 414. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees of a single agency or department of
the United States Government, who are sta-
tioned in the United States, at any single
international conference unless the relevant
Secretary reports to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations at least 5
days in advance that such attendance is im-
portant to the national interest: Provided,
That for purposes of this section the term
‘‘international conference’’ shall mean a
conference occurring outside of the United
States attended by representatives of the
United States Government and of foreign
governments, international organizations, or
nongovernmental organizations.
SEC. 415. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available under this Act may
be used by the Surface Transportation Board
to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or
practice complaints filed with the Board in
an amount in excess of the amount author-
ized for district court civil suit filing fees
under section 1914 of title 28, United States
Code.
SEC. 416. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Transportation, the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, or any other
Federal agency to lease or purchase new
light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or
for an agency’s fleet inventory, except in ac-
cordance with Presidential Memorandum—
Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24,
2011.
SEC. 417. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 418. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to deny an In-
spector General funded under this Act timely
access to any records, documents, or other
materials available to the department or
agency over which that Inspector General
has responsibilities under the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent
or impede that Inspector General’s access to
such records, documents, or other materials,
under any provision of law, except a provi-
sion of law that expressly refers to the In-
spector General and expressly limits the In-
spector General’s right of access.
(b) A department or agency covered by this
section shall provide its Inspector General
with access to all such records, documents,
and other materials in a timely manner.
(c) Each Inspector General shall ensure
compliance with statutory limitations on
disclosure relevant to the information pro-
vided by the establishment over which that
Inspector General has responsibilities under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00147 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1148 January 23, 2019
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.).
(d) Each Inspector General covered by this
section shall report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate within 5 calendar days
any failures to comply with this require-
ment.
SEC. 419. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used to pay award or incentive fees for con-
tractors whose performance has been judged
to be below satisfactory, behind schedule,
over budget, or has failed to meet the basic
requirements of a contract, unless the Agen-
cy determines that any such deviations are
due to unforeseeable events, government-
driven scope changes, or are not significant
within the overall scope of the project and/or
program unless such awards or incentive fees
are consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
SEC. 420. For an additional amount for the
‘‘Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement
Financing Program’’ account for the cost of
modifications, as defined by section 502 of
the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of di-
rect loans issued pursuant to sections 501
through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization
and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public
Law 94–210), as amended, and included in co-
hort 1, as defined by the Department of
Transportation’s memorandum to the Office
of Management and Budget dated November
5, 2018, $17,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That, for a direct loan
included in cohort 1, as defined in the memo-
randum described in the previous proviso,
that has satisfied all obligations attached to
such loan, the Secretary shall repay the
credit risk premiums of such loan, with in-
terest accrued thereon, not later than 60
days after the enactment of this Act or, for
a direct loan included in cohort 1 with obli-
gations that have not yet been satisfied, not
later than 60 days after the date on which all
obligations attached to such loan have been
satisfied.
SEC. 421. Section 127(l) of title 23, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL HIGHWAY SEGMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If any segment of high-
way described in clause (i) or (ii) of this sub-
paragraph is designated as a route of the
Interstate System, a vehicle that could oper-
ate legally on that segment before the date
of such designation may continue to operate
on that segment, without regard to any re-
quirement under subsection (a), except that
such vehicle shall not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of 120,000 pounds. The highway seg-
ments referred to in this paragraph are as
follows:
‘‘(i) The William H. Natcher Parkway (to
be designated as a spur of Interstate Route
65) from Interstate Route 65 in Bowling
Green, Kentucky, to United States Route 60
in Owensboro, Kentucky.
‘‘(ii) The Julian M. Carroll (Purchase)
Parkway (to be designated as Interstate
Route 69) in Kentucky from the Tennessee
state line to the interchange with Interstate
Route 24, near Calvert City.
‘‘(B) NONDIVISIBLE LOAD OR VEHICLE.—Noth-
ing in this paragraph shall prohibit the State
from issuing a permit for a nondivisible load
or vehicle with a gross vehicle weight that
exceeds 120,000 pounds.’’.
SEC. 422. Section 127(s) of title 23, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the subsection heading and
inserting the following: ‘‘(s) NATURAL GAS
AND ELECTRIC BATTERY VEHICLES’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘or powered primarily by
means of electric battery power’’ after the
first time ‘‘natural gas’’ appears;
(3) by striking ‘‘any vehicle weight limit’’
and inserting ‘‘the weight limit on the power
unit by up to 2,000 pounds’’; and
(4) by striking all that follows after ‘‘under
this section’’ and inserting a period after
‘‘section’’.
SEC. 423. Section 31112(c) of title 49, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading by striking
‘‘AND KANSAS’’ and inserting ‘‘KANSAS, AND
OREGON’’;
(2) in paragraph (4) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (5) by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) Oregon may allow the operation of a
truck tractor and 2 property-carrying units
not in actual lawful operation on a regular
or periodic basis on June 1, 1991, if—
‘‘(A) the length of the property-carrying
units does not exceed 82 feet 8 inches;
‘‘(B) the combination is used only to trans-
port sugar beets; and
‘‘(C) the operation occurs on United States
Route 20, United States Route 26, United
States Route 30, or Oregon Route 201 in the
vicinity, or between any, of—
‘‘(i) Vale, Oregon;
‘‘(ii) Ontario, Oregon; or
‘‘(iii) Nyssa, Oregon.’’.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
DIVISION G—OTHER MATTERS
TITLE I
TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
SEC. 101. Section 177 of division C of Public
Law 114–223, as amended by Public Law 114–
254, is amended by inserting ‘‘and the 116th
Congress’’ after ‘‘the 115th Congress’’ in each
instance it appears.
SEC. 102. (a) During fiscal year 2019 and
each succeeding fiscal year, amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for the
Architect of the Capitol under the heading
‘‘House Office Buildings’’ may be transferred
to the House of Representatives and merged
with and made available under the heading
‘‘Allowances and Expenses’’, subject to the
approval of the Committee on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives.
(b) The period of availability of any
amounts transferred to the House of Rep-
resentatives under this section shall be the
same period of availability applicable to
such amounts as appropriated for the Archi-
tect of the Capitol.
SEC. 103. Section 243 of title II of division
C of Public Law 115–244 is amended by insert-
ing ‘‘248’’ after ‘‘section’’.
SEC. 104. (a) Discretionary amounts appro-
priated by any division of this consolidated
Act shall be available for payments in ac-
cordance with section 1341(c) of title 31,
United States Code (as added by the Govern-
ment Employee Fair Treatment Act of 2019)
to employees whose salaries and expenses are
provided in that division.
(b) All obligations incurred in anticipation
of the appropriations made and authority
granted by any division of this consolidated
Act for the purposes of maintaining the es-
sential level of activity to protect life and
property and bringing about orderly termi-
nation of Government functions, and for pur-
poses as otherwise authorized by law, are
hereby ratified and approved if otherwise in
accord with the provisions of any division of
this consolidated Act, and for purposes of
such obligations the time period covered by
this Act shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
SEC. 105. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘State’’ and the term ‘‘grantee,’’ including
United States territories and possessions,
shall have the meaning given such terms
under the applicable Federal program under
subsection (a). In addition, ‘‘to continue car-
rying out a Federal program’’ means the
continued performance by a State or other
Federal grantee, during the period of a lapse
in appropriations, of a Federal program that
the State or such other grantee had been
carrying out prior to the period of the lapse
in appropriations.
(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government receiv-
ing funding in any division of this consoli-
dated Act which, but for such lapse in appro-
priations, would have paid, or made reim-
bursement relating to, any of the expenses
referred to in this section with respect to the
program involved. Payments and reimburse-
ments under this authority shall be made
only to the extent and in amounts provided
in advance in appropriations Acts.
SEC. 106. (a) Section 3(20)(B) of the Carl D.
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act
of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302(20)(B)), as amended by
section 7 of the Strengthening Career and
Technical Education for the 21st Century
Act (Public Law 115–224), is amended by in-
serting ‘‘, except that, for the purpose of sec-
tion 132, the term ‘recognized postsecondary
credential’ as used in this subparagraph shall
not include a baccalaureate degree’’ after
‘‘associate degree’’.
(b) The amendment made by subsection (a)
shall take effect on July 1, 2019, as if in-
cluded in the Strengthening Career and
Technical Education for the 21st Century
Act (Public Law 115–224).
TITLE II
EXTENSIONS OF AUTHORITIES
SEC. 201. Sections 1309(a) and 1319 of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4016(a) and 4026) shall be applied by
substituting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ for ‘‘De-
cember 7, 2018’’.
SEC. 202. (a) The following sections of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act shall continue in effect
through March 1, 2019—
(1) subparagraphs (C) through (E) of sec-
tion 4(i)(1) (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(i)(1)(C)–(E));
(2) section 4(k)(3) (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(k)(3));
(3) section 4(k)(4) (7 U.S.C. 136a–1(k)(4));
and
(4) section 33(c)(3)(B) (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(c)(3)(B)).
(b)(1) Section 4(i)(1)(I) of the Federal Insec-
ticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00148 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1149
January 23, 2019
U.S.C. 136a–1(i)(1)(I)) shall be applied by sub-
stituting ‘‘March 1, 2019’’ for ‘‘September 30,
2017’’.
(2) Notwithstanding section 33(m)(2) of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–8(m)(2)), sec-
tion 33(m)(1) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(m)(1)) shall be applied by substituting
‘‘March 1, 2019’’ for ‘‘September 30, 2017’’.
(c) Section 408(m)(3) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 346a(m)(3))
shall be applied by substituting ‘‘March 1,
2019’’ for ‘‘September 30, 2017’’.
TANF PROGRAM EXTENSIONS
SEC. 203. (a) FAMILY ASSISTANCE GRANTS.—
Section 403(a)(1) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 603(a)(1)) is amended in each of
subparagraphs (A) and (C) by striking ‘‘2017
and 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 and 2020’’.
(b) HEALTHY MARRIAGE PROMOTION AND RE-
SPONSIBLE FATHERHOOD GRANTS.—Section
403(a)(2)(D) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(2)(D))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘2017 and 2018’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘2019 and 2020’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘for fiscal year 2017 or 2018’’.
(c) CONTINGENCY FUND.—Section 403(b)(2) of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 603(b)(2)) is amended by
striking ‘‘fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘each of fiscal years 2019 and 2020’’.
(d) TRIBAL FAMILY ASSISTANCE GRANTS.—
Paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A) of section 412(a)
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 612(a)) are each amend-
ed by striking ‘‘2017 and 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘2019 and 2020’’.
(e) CHILD CARE.—Section 418(a)(3) of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 618(a)(3)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘2017 and 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 and
2020’’.
(f) GRANTS TO THE TERRITORIES.—Section
1108(b)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(b)(2)) is
amended by striking ‘‘2017 and 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019 and 2020’’.
MEASURING AND UNDERSTANDING OUTCOMES
SEC. 204. (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 411(a) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 611(a)) is
amended by redesignating paragraph (7) as
paragraph (8) and inserting after paragraph
(6) the following:
‘‘(7) REPORT ON ENGAGEMENT, EMPLOYMENT
AND OUTCOMES.—
‘‘(A) REPORTING AGREEMENT.—Each State
and the Secretary shall enter into an agree-
ment specifying the manner by which the in-
formation and data described in this para-
graph shall be collected and reported to the
Secretary beginning in fiscal year 2020.
‘‘(i) OUTCOMES FOR EXITING RECIPIENTS.—In-
formation and data regarding families who
formerly received assistance and included a
work-eligible individual (disaggregated by
type of family, reason for exit, and participa-
tion in work activities during the preceding
fiscal year) under the State program funded
under this part or under any State program
funded with qualified State expenditures (as
defined in section 409(a)(7)(B)(i)), with re-
spect to the following:
‘‘(I) The percentage with at least 1 for-
merly work-eligible individual employed
during the 2nd quarter after exiting from the
program.
‘‘(II) The percentage with at least 1 for-
merly work-eligible individual employed
during the 4th quarter after exiting from the
program.
‘‘(III) The median earnings when at least 1
formerly work-eligible individual is em-
ployed during the 2d quarter after exiting
from the program.
‘‘(IV) The percentage with at least 1 for-
merly work-eligible individual employed
during any of the first 4 quarters after
exiting from the program.
‘‘(V) The distribution of income and earn-
ings, including relative to poverty and deep
poverty, for each of the first 4 quarters end-
ing after the quarter of exit from assistance.
‘‘(VI) The percentage who, at the time of
exit from the program, were subject to the
following:
‘‘(aa) A penalty under section 407(e).
‘‘(bb) A sanction or penalty described in
section 404 or 408.
‘‘(cc) A penalty or sanction not described
in item (aa) or (bb).
‘‘(ii) ENGAGEMENT AND EMPLOYMENT OF CUR-
RENT RECIPIENTS.—
‘‘(I) WORK-ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—In the
case of current work-eligible individuals
under the State program funded under this
part or under any State program funded with
qualified State expenditures (as defined in
section 409(a)(7)(B)(i)), the following infor-
mation relative to current quarter being re-
ported:
‘‘(aa) Earnings in each of the 4 quarters
immediately preceding the quarter.
‘‘(bb) Standard measures of employment,
earnings, receipt of assistance, and partici-
pation in work activities (as defined in sec-
tion 407(d)) in each of the first 4 quarters fol-
lowing the quarter.
‘‘(II) ALL RECIPIENTS.— The percentage of
recipients of assistance under the State pro-
gram funded under this part who have not
attained 24 years of age and who obtain a
high school degree or its recognized equiva-
lent while receiving the assistance.
‘‘(B) STATISTICAL ADJUSTMENT MODEL FOR
EMPLOYMENT OUTCOMES.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of Labor
and relevant experts, shall develop rec-
ommendations by March 1, 2020, on how to
establish and disseminate an objective sta-
tistical model that will allow the Secretary
to make adjustments to the data reported
pursuant to subclauses (I) through (IV) of
subparagraph (A)(i) of this paragraph, based
on economic conditions and the characteris-
tics of participants. To the extent prac-
ticable, the recommendations shall be com-
patible with the statistical adjustment
model developed under section
116(b)(3)(A)(viii) of the Workforce Innovation
and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C.
3141(b)(3)(A)(viii)) and, with respect to a
State, the State adjusted levels of perform-
ance established for the State under that
section.’’.
TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO DATA EXCHANGE
STANDARDS TO IMPROVE PROGRAM COORDINA-
TION
SEC. 205. (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 411(d) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 611(d)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(d) DATA EXCHANGE STANDARDS FOR IM-
PROVED INTEROPERABILITY.—
‘‘(1) DESIGNATION.—The Secretary shall, in
consultation with an interagency work
group established by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and considering State gov-
ernment perspectives, by rule, designate
data exchange standards to govern, under
this part—
‘‘(A) necessary categories of information
that State agencies operating programs
under State plans approved under this part
are required under applicable Federal law to
electronically exchange with another State
agency; and
‘‘(B) Federal reporting and data exchange
required under applicable Federal law.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The data exchange
standards required by paragraph (1) shall, to
the extent practicable—
‘‘(A) incorporate a widely accepted, non-
proprietary, searchable, computer-readable
format, such as the eXtensible Markup Lan-
guage;
‘‘(B) contain interoperable standards devel-
oped and maintained by intergovernmental
partnerships, such as the National Informa-
tion Exchange Model;
‘‘(C) incorporate interoperable standards
developed and maintained by Federal enti-
ties with authority over contracting and fi-
nancial assistance;
‘‘(D) be consistent with and implement ap-
plicable accounting principles;
‘‘(E) be implemented in a manner that is
cost-effective and improves program effi-
ciency and effectiveness; and
‘‘(F) be capable of being continually up-
graded as necessary.
‘‘(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to require
a change to existing data exchange standards
found to be effective and efficient.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Not later than the
date that is 24 months after the date of the
enactment of this section, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall issue a pro-
posed rule that—
(1) identifies federally required data ex-
changes, include specification and timing of
exchanges to be standardized, and address
the factors used in determining whether and
when to standardize data exchanges; and
(2) specifies State implementation options
and describes future milestones.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TECHNICAL
CORRECTIONS
SEC. 206. Section 306(a) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 506(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘individuals’’ and inserting
‘‘claimants of regular compensation, includ-
ing claimants’’; and
(2) by inserting a comma after ‘‘section
303(j)’’.
TITLE III
MEDICAID EXTENDERS
EXTENSION OF MONEY FOLLOWS THE PERSON
REBALANCING DEMONSTRATION
SEC. 301. (a) GENERAL FUNDING.—Section
6071(h) of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005
(42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (E), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) subject to paragraph (3), $112,000,000
for fiscal year 2019.’’;
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Amounts made’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Subject to paragraph (3), amounts
made’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘September 30, 2016’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30, 2021’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR FY 2019.—Funds ap-
propriated under paragraph (1)(F) shall be
made available for grants to States only if
such States have an approved MFP dem-
onstration project under this section as of
December 31, 2018.’’.
(b) FUNDING FOR QUALITY ASSURANCE AND
IMPROVEMENT; TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE; OVER-
SIGHT.—Section 6071(f) of the Deficit Reduc-
tion Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is
amended by striking paragraph (2) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(2) FUNDING.—From the amounts appro-
priated under subsection (h)(1)(F) for fiscal
year 2019, $500,000 shall be available to the
Secretary for such fiscal year to carry out
this subsection.’’.
(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 6071(b)
of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42
U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(10) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary of Health and Human
Services.’’.
EXTENSION OF PROTECTION FOR MEDICAID RE-
CIPIENTS OF HOME AND COMMUNITY-BASED
SERVICES AGAINST SPOUSAL IMPOVERISHMENT
SEC. 302. (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2404 of
Public Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5 note) is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00149 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1150 January 23, 2019
amended by striking ‘‘the 5-year period that
begins on January 1, 2014,’’ and inserting
‘‘the period beginning on January 1, 2014, and
ending on March 31, 2019,’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) PROTECTING STATE SPOUSAL INCOME AND
ASSET DISREGARD FLEXIBILITY UNDER WAIVERS
AND PLAN AMENDMENTS.—Nothing in section
2404 of Public Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5
note) or section 1924 of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5) shall be construed as
prohibiting a State from disregarding an in-
dividual’s spousal income and assets under a
State waiver or plan amendment described
in paragraph (2) for purposes of making de-
terminations of eligibility for home and
community-based services or home and com-
munity-based attendant services and sup-
ports under such waiver or plan amendment.
(2) STATE WAIVER OR PLAN AMENDMENT DE-
SCRIBED.—A State waiver or plan amendment
described in this paragraph is any of the fol-
lowing:
(A) A waiver or plan amendment to provide
medical assistance for home and community-
based services under a waiver or plan amend-
ment under subsection (c), (d), or (i) of sec-
tion 1915 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396n) or under section 1115 of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 1315).
(B) A plan amendment to provide medical
assistance for home and community-based
services for individuals by reason of being
determined eligible under section
1902(a)(10)(C) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(10)(C)) or by reason of section 1902(f)
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(f)) or otherwise
on the basis of a reduction of income based
on costs incurred for medical or other reme-
dial care under which the State disregarded
the income and assets of the individual’s
spouse in determining the initial and ongo-
ing financial eligibility of an individual for
such services in place of the spousal impov-
erishment provisions applied under section
1924 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5).
(C) A plan amendment to provide medical
assistance for home and community-based
attendant services and supports under sec-
tion 1915(k) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(k)).
REDUCTION IN FMAP AFTER 2020 FOR STATES
WITHOUT ASSET VERIFICATION PROGRAM
SEC. 303. Section 1940 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396w) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(k) REDUCTION IN FMAP AFTER 2020 FOR
NON-COMPLIANT STATES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a cal-
endar quarter beginning on or after January
1, 2021, the Federal medical assistance per-
centage otherwise determined under section
1905(b) for a non-compliant State shall be re-
duced—
‘‘(A) for calendar quarters in 2021 and 2022,
by 0.12 percentage points;
‘‘(B) for calendar quarters in 2023, by 0.25
percentage points;
‘‘(C) for calendar quarters in 2024, by 0.35
percentage points; and
‘‘(D) for calendar quarters in 2025 and each
year thereafter, by 0.5 percentage points.
‘‘(2) NON-COMPLIANT STATE DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘non-
compliant State’ means a State—
‘‘(A) that is one of the 50 States or the Dis-
trict of Columbia;
‘‘(B) with respect to which the Secretary
has not approved a State plan amendment
submitted under subsection (a)(2); and
‘‘(C) that is not operating, on an ongoing
basis, an asset verification program in ac-
cordance with this section.’’.
MEDICAID IMPROVEMENT FUND
SEC. 304. Section 1941(b)(1) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396w–1(b)(1)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘$31,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$6,000,000’’.
BUDGETARY EFFECTS
SEC. 305. (a) STATUTORY PAYGO SCORE-
CARDS.—The budgetary effects of this divi-
sion shall not be entered on either PAYGO
scorecard maintained pursuant to section
4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of
2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(d)).
(b) SENATE PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this division shall not be
entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained
for purposes of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71
(115th Congress).
(c) CLASSIFICATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budg-
et Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the
joint explanatory statement of the com-
mittee of conference accompanying Con-
ference Report 105–217 and section 250(c)(8) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of
this division shall not be estimated—
(1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
and
(2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of sec-
tion 3 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act
of 2010 as being included in an appropriation
Act.
TITLE IV
BUDGETARY EFFECTS
SEC. 401. Effective on the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the balances on the PAYGO
scorecards established pursuant to para-
graphs (4) and (5) of section 4(d) of the Statu-
tory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C.
933(d)) shall be zero.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill
shall be debatable for 1 hour, equally
divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their re-
spective designees.
The gentlewoman from New York
(Mrs. LOWEY) and the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. GRANGER) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and insert extra-
neous material on H.R. 648, currently
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the Trump shutdown,
now in its 33rd day, must end. It must
end without delay so the Federal Gov-
ernment can get back to fully working
on behalf of the American people.
Just this morning, President
Trump’s chief economic adviser warned
that the shutdown could lead to zero
economic growth this quarter. Let me
repeat: zero economic growth.
The solution is simple. Reopen the
government, pay our Federal employ-
ees, and then negotiate border security
and immigration policy proposals that
can command bipartisan support.
It is simple. The bill before us is yet
another step in that direction. Today,
Democrats put forward six conference
reports negotiated last December when
Republicans controlled the House, the
Senate, and the White House. In fact,
Republicans have even urged us to
bring them to the floor.
If Republicans are serious about gov-
erning with us for the betterment of all
Americans, then they should vote for
these six conference reports and reopen
the agencies covered by those bills.
In addition, Chairwoman ROYBAL-
ALLARD is bringing forward a con-
tinuing resolution for the Department
of Homeland Security through Feb-
ruary 28. This legislation will open the
Department of Homeland Security and
pay its employees while President
Trump and Congress negotiate border
and immigration policy beyond the $1.6
billion in border security-related meas-
ures in the bill we consider today.
This bill provides $563.4 million for
immigration judges to reduce the back-
log of immigration cases and $524.2 mil-
lion for construction at ports of entry
to facilitate lawful entries and trade.
There is $527 million to assist Central
American countries as they work to
improve security and economic sta-
bility in the State and Foreign Oper-
ations portion of the bill, which Rank-
ing Member and former full committee
Chairman ROGERS negotiated with me
and Senators GRAHAM and LEAHY.
The State and Foreign Operations di-
vision also no longer includes poison
pills, such as the expansion of the glob-
al gag rule, which would have tied up
$8.8 billion in funding for lifesaving nu-
trition programs and efforts to prevent
malaria, TB, and HIV.
It no longer bans funding for the
United Nations Population Fund, pro-
tecting maternal and child health and
access to family planning services.
A strong international affairs budget
of $54.2 billion will help stabilize the
world’s economy, meet unprecedented
humanitarian needs, and continue our
fight against radical extremism and
terrorism.
These bills were written by the Re-
publican-led House and Senate, to-
gether with Democrats. I will repeat
that. These bills were written by the
Republican-led House and Senate, to-
gether with Democrats. Neither Demo-
crats nor Republicans got everything
they wanted, but we compromised for
the betterment of the United States.
These bills should be enacted to end
the Trump shutdown for all Americans,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposi-
tion to H.R. 648. The bill before us
today represents some of the hard work
done in conference between the House
and the Senate. House Democrats
closed the bills without Republican
signoff. Therefore, this bill leaves
many items yet to be negotiated.
It has no chance of becoming law in
its current form because it does not in-
clude funding for border security. The
Senate will not take it up, and the
President will not sign it.
Today marks day 33 of an unneces-
sary government shutdown. Democrats
have failed to come to the table to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00150 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.015 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1151
January 23, 2019
offer a serious compromise solution to
reopen the government, pay our Fed-
eral employees, and fund border secu-
rity.
In contrast, over the last 33 days, Re-
publicans have offered multiple plans
to do just that. Last week, I put for-
ward a plan that would allow Federal
employees to immediately receive pay
while Members of Congress and the
White House continue working toward
a permanent solution to end the shut-
down. Sadly, Democrats in this Cham-
ber voted against this commonsense
measure.
Over the weekend, President Trump
put forward a reasonable compromise
proposal that provides something for
both sides: funding for border security
and protections for Dreamers. Once
again, Democrats rejected this plan be-
fore they even heard the details.
Mr. Speaker, we face a true humani-
tarian and security crisis at our bor-
der. More than 30 percent of women
who come to the border are sexually
assaulted on their trip, according to
Doctors Without Borders. The number
of families and unaccompanied chil-
dren crossing the border illegally has
increased dramatically, up nearly 150
percent in December.
My friends on the other side of the
aisle talk often about the need to help
these women and children, and I agree
with them. So why are they refusing to
accept this compromise proposal put
forward by the administration that
would provide relief for 700,000 child
immigrants brought here by their par-
ents and another 30,000 immigrants
whose protected status is in jeopardy?
This shutdown has caused real-world
consequences for Federal employees
who have bills to pay and families to
support. The hardworking men and
women of the TSA, Border Patrol,
Coast Guard, air traffic control, and
others are suffering. The continuing re-
fusal of Democrats to come to the ne-
gotiating table only further harms
these employees.
The shameful gamesmanship must
stop. I call on my friends on the other
side of the aisle to get serious about
working with us to secure our border,
end this shutdown, and pay our Federal
employees.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Before I yield to our next speaker, I
just want to make our position very
clear. The solution to the Trump shut-
down is simple: Reopen the govern-
ment; pay our Federal employees; and
then we can negotiate, Democrats and
Republicans. Our proposal will form
the basis for these eventual negotia-
tions. Let’s open the government and
then get to work.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentleman from New York (Mr.
SERRANO), my good friend and the chair
of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee.
Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairwoman LOWEY for yielding me the
time.
Mr. Speaker, as incoming chairman
of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee, I
would like to take a couple of minutes
to discuss that section of this bill and
the agencies it funds.
We are currently on day 33 of the
Trump shutdown. The impact is grow-
ing as employees miss paychecks, indi-
viduals and groups dependent upon
Federal assistance go without, and our
public safety and scientific innovation
is undermined. This is particularly
true for the agencies under the juris-
diction of the Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee.
Just last week, the Department of
Justice had to scramble to find cash to
allow recipients of grant programs
under the Violence Against Women Act
to be funded for 1 additional month.
The New York City field office of the
FBI had to set up a food bank for em-
ployees who are currently working
without pay. We have heard reports
that individual FBI agents are asking
not to be called back to work so they
can find paying jobs and that agents in
training are quitting the process, with
no paycheck in sight.
The shutdown is also undermining
scientific research and our next genera-
tion of scientists. The National Science
Foundation, NOAA, and NASA are cur-
rently unable to award grants for ongo-
ing research or scholarships to ensure
that our future scientists have the
ability to continue their studies.
At the Department of Commerce, key
economic statistics are being delayed.
The International Trade Administra-
tion cannot investigate unfair trade
practices. In total, more than 90,000
employees at the Department of Jus-
tice, which includes the FBI, DEA,
ATF, U.S. Marshals Service, and the
Federal Bureau of Prisons, are working
without pay.
More than 90 percent of employees at
NASA are currently furloughed with-
out pay, and more than 86 percent of
employees at Department of Commerce
find themselves in the same situation—
without pay.
The question I have for our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle is
simply this: Is this worth the cost?
Should we imperil our economy, our
scientific leadership, and our public
safety because the President wants to
waste money on an ineffective and un-
necessary wall?
We all know the answer to that ques-
tion, although some are too afraid, un-
fortunately, to say it.
b 1415
This bill offers us a bipartisan way
out of this crisis. It is the compromise
that the House and Senate negotiators
worked out last fall. I think that bears
repeating. This bill is the bipartisan
compromise that House and Senate ne-
gotiators worked out last fall. While
the CJS section does not contain ev-
erything that our side may want, it
does contain important investments in
science, innovation, justice, and eco-
nomic development. In fact, with very
few changes, this portion of H.R. 648
very closely mirrors what the Senate
introduced just 2 days ago.
The CJS division of this bill includes
significant increases for the Census Bu-
reau, NASA, the National Science
Foundation, and the FBI. It rejects the
administration’s proposed cuts to the
Economic Development Administra-
tion, the Minority Business Develop-
ment Agency, and the Manufacturing
Extension Partnership program and
more. It is a commonsense solution to
the shutdown, and it lets our Federal
employees get back to the business of
helping our Nation.
I urge Members on both sides to vote
for this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I would just like to
close by saying what I said before: we
continue to push and push for this wall
to be built. I don’t spend time on
whether the wall will be big or small,
cement or wood or metal. For me it is
simply this: this country, of all coun-
tries in the world, should never build a
wall. This country is not the country
that builds a wall. So in New York we
have the Statue of Liberty, and in the
south a wall.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
4 minutes to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. ROGERS).
Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my esteemed col-
leagues, full committee Chairwoman
LOWEY, and Ranking Member GRANGER.
This six-bill appropriations package
represents a lot of hard work for many
of us on the Appropriations Com-
mittee. Broadly speaking, this package
is a fine example of compromise—Mem-
bers working across the aisle to do the
important work of funding our govern-
ment in an efficient and thoughtful
manner. Our Appropriations Com-
mittee delivered.
Nevertheless, while this legislation
addresses many bipartisan concerns, I
fear that it has no chance of becoming
law in its current form without a com-
promise on border security. That is
truly unfortunate. We are holding up
the government, we are causing a lot of
people a lot of unnecessary pain and
suffering, and we need to get this done.
Regarding funding for the Depart-
ment of State, Foreign Operations, and
other related programs; this portion of
the bill provides important resources
for our national security. It supports
our allies and partners, including $3.3
billion in foreign military financing for
Israel—a $200 million increase from
last year, by the way. It also maintains
funding at or above last year for Egypt,
Jordan, and Tunisia, as well as coun-
tries facing Russian aggression, such as
Ukraine and Georgia. In our own hemi-
sphere, the bill supports programs to
counter transnational criminal organi-
zations and the flow of illegal drugs.
I am pleased to say that in collabora-
tion with Chairwoman LOWEY, this bill
also reflects a number of bipartisan
priorities, including $800 million for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00151 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.047 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1152 January 23, 2019
basic education and important in-
creases in global health, such as addi-
tional funds to combat tuberculosis. It
also maintains current levels for em-
bassy security during these dangerous
times.
Despite the strength of this division
of the bill, Mr. Speaker, the larger
package is regrettably incomplete. It is
as if we worked together to carefully
piece together a complex puzzle, and
there, right in the middle, is a glaring
missing piece. These six bills that we
have worked through together are good
bills, but we need to find that missing
piece and reach a compromise that will
fund border security, reopen the gov-
ernment, pay our faithful employees
who are now struggling to make ends
meet, and get back to the business of
serving the American people.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, before I
introduce our next speaker, I want to
thank the distinguished gentleman,
Mr. ROGERS, for alluding to the good
bipartisan work we did, the $800 mil-
lion for education and healthcare. It
was a good bill. Frankly, that is why
we need to pass these bills and, I agree
with the gentleman, take the time to
negotiate border security where there
may be some differences. So let’s open
the government, pass those good bills
that we worked on together, and then
take some time to talk about border
security.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
PRICE), who is the chair of the Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee and is my good friend.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to support H.R. 648, leg-
islation to reopen and responsibly fund
the government, including the Depart-
ments of Transportation and of Hous-
ing and Urban Development.
This bill reflects the various con-
ference agreements that were reached
on a bipartisan, bicameral basis late
last year. The chairman at the time of
our Transportation, Housing and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee, my friend, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, was an excellent partner
through this process. We worked to-
gether with our Senate counterparts to
secure numerous priorities in the final
package that spoke to the good work
done in both the House and Senate.
Unfortunately, the House and Senate
leadership failed to bring this legisla-
tion to the floor before the end of the
115th Congress, despite unified Repub-
lican control of the branches of govern-
ment. They failed in September, and
they failed again in December in the
lame-duck session. But, now, we do
have a chance to rectify that mistake.
Division F of H.R. 648 funds DOT,
HUD, and related agencies. It includes
$71.1 billion in discretionary funding,
which is $23.1 billion above the Presi-
dent’s budget request and $1 billion
above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level.
This total includes more than $17 bil-
lion for new housing and transpor-
tation infrastructure.
It includes billions of dollars of fund-
ing above the authorized level to accel-
erate improvements in our aviation
system, expand transit and rail net-
works, replace aging highways and
bridge infrastructure, and make im-
provements at our Nation’s ports.
The measure also includes robust
funding to preserve and expand our af-
fordable housing stock, particularly for
vulnerable populations like veterans,
seniors, and the disabled.
It locks in increases to flexible grant
programs like Community Develop-
ment Block Grants and HOME that are
vital for local governments as they ad-
dress housing and community develop-
ment needs.
Just as important, this legislation
would finally re-open DOT and HUD
and allow more than 20,000 furloughed
employees of these departments to re-
ceive backpay and to return to their
mission serving the American people.
In the last 3 weeks, the House has
passed short-term continuing resolu-
tions to keep government open and
allow more time to negotiate, but that
wasn’t good enough for the President.
We have taken up funding legislation
passed by the Senate almost unani-
mously, and that wasn’t good enough
for MITCH MCCONNELL to get to yes.
Today we have the opportunity to
fully fund the government with a pack-
age that reflects bicameral and bipar-
tisan priorities. It is time for Repub-
licans and President Trump to finally
take yes for an answer.
The Trump shutdown has dragged on
for more than a month, shuttering
vital government services and creating
chaos and uncertainty for families,
businesses, and communities.
The President has taken DOT hos-
tage, and the strain on our aviation
system is growing worse each day. The
President has taken HUD hostage, and
housing contracts have lapsed putting
tenants in jeopardy.
H.R. 648 would finally end the hos-
tage-taking. It would ensure that vital
transportation and housing programs
are funded for the rest of this year.
Meanwhile, a separate bill would tem-
porarily fund the Department of Home-
land Security so that negotiations on
border security could continue.
H.R. 648 is the result of months of bi-
partisan collaboration. It excludes
problematic policy riders from both
sides of the aisle. We should pass this
bill and re-open our government.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this commonsense approach
and re-open the government without
further delay.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Ala-
bama (Mr. ADERHOLT).
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Ranking Member GRANGER for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, the Subcommittee on
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies—the subcommittee of
which I am privileged to be the ranking
member in the 116th Congress—over-
sees a diverse range of important prior-
ities. It ranges from deep space explo-
ration to Federal law enforcement to
supporting economic growth to inter-
national trade, and much more.
My friend, the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SERRANO), has an abiding
commitment to these priorities as
well, not to mention a well-established
record of bipartisan work on this sub-
committee. I look forward to con-
tinuing this collaborative and collegial
spirit for the good of the Nation with
Chairman SERRANO in the 116th Con-
gress.
In light of that, I appreciate that the
bill that is before us this afternoon in-
cludes many of the Commerce, Justice,
Science agreements that Chairman
SERRANO made last year with then-
Chairman CULBERSON, and I am pleased
that many of the funding levels in-
cluded for Federal law enforcement, as-
sistance to our State and local law en-
forcement partners, and many NASA
programs were included.
However, as it has already been said
here this afternoon—and I am sure it
will be said again—the President has
made it clear that he will not support
spending bills that do not address the
Nation’s urgent border security needs.
While the package that is before us
this afternoon has a lot of very good
features—that is not disputed—the
problem is it fails to address the border
security funding that is needed at the
Department of Homeland Security. So
instead of continuing to put appropria-
tion bills on the floor that we know
that the President will not support, I
would ask my friends on the other side
of the aisle to negotiate with the Presi-
dent, make a counteroffer, and to come
forward to the table.
We know that many Federal employ-
ees are not being paid. Many govern-
ment services that Americans depend
on are not being provided. Along our
southern border, women and children
are being abused as they are trafficked
by smugglers, and drugs are pouring in
through the borders as well. The ma-
jority continues to refuse to negotiate
and to make a counteroffer.
Mr. Speaker, I am ready to sit down,
as I know my colleagues are, to work
on an agreement to pay our Federal
employees to get the government oper-
ating again and secure our borders.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. BISHOP), who is the chair of
the Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, last fall we were very
close to finishing this bill and bringing
it up for a vote; had we passed it then
we would not be in the mess we are in
today. But we can’t go back in time.
We are now in the 33rd day of the shut-
down. Vital services are eliminated or
stretched to the breaking point. The
shutdown must end. It can end if we
pass this excellent bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00152 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.049 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1153
January 23, 2019
I want to address my colleagues who
objected to voting for the Senate-
passed bill a few weeks ago because
they said it did not protect House pri-
orities. This bill does and was nego-
tiated with all four sides, House and
Senate majorities and House and Sen-
ate minorities. Each side had an equal
voice.
Former Chairman ADERHOLT, Chair-
man HOEVEN, Senator MERKLEY, and I,
along with our staffs—committee staffs
and personal staffs—worked together
on the bill. I certainly would like to
thank them for the very respectful and
collegial way we worked through the
various issues of agreement and dis-
agreement to arrive at this bipartisan
product. Additionally, we look forward
to working with Mr. FORTENBERRY, the
new ranking member of the sub-
committee.
House priorities were protected
whenever possible. Here are some ex-
amples: the bill is at the House level of
$550 million for rural broadband expan-
sion, above the Senate level. House lan-
guage barring Chinese poultry in
school meals is included. House lan-
guage setting aside funding for per-
sistent poverty counties is included.
The House position to continue funding
construction of Federal agriculture re-
search buildings is maintained, where
the Senate bill provided no funding.
The higher House level for healthy
foods financing, and the higher House
level for rural housing assistance
grants to help rural elderly and low-in-
come homeowners stay in their homes
is included.
Most importantly, this bill is good
for the country. It provides over $23
billion in discretionary funding equal
to the FY18 level. It reflects the more
than 1,000 requests for agricultural re-
search funding that we received from
House Members, providing $3.4 billion,
an increase of $388 million above the
fiscal year 2018 level.
b 1430
The farm production and conserva-
tion mission area, which includes the
Farm Service Agency, is well funded at
$2.75 billion.
I thank the Secretary, Secretary
Perdue, and, most importantly, the
Farm Service Agency employees for
coming back to work for 2 weeks, and
part-time thereafter, in order to proc-
ess critical emergency loans, assist
with additional administration serv-
ices, and help with tax documents. But
they need to be paid.
The bill also makes significant in-
vestments in rural development by pro-
viding $41 billion in loans and grants,
including the House level of $550 mil-
lion for rural broadband.
Domestic food programs are well
funded. I am proud of the fact that the
bill includes $110 million, a 72 percent
increase over the normal funding level,
to help our Nation’s food banks handle
the high volume of commodities that
will become available as a result of the
USDA’s trade mitigation plan.
On the international side, the bill
provides $1.7 billion for Food for Peace
and funds the McGovern-Dole program
at $210 million.
Finally, it provides FDA with $3 bil-
lion in discretionary funding, $269 mil-
lion above fiscal year 2018. It includes
more funding for House priorities than
the Senate bill we considered a couple
of weeks ago and includes important
investments to fight the opioid epi-
demic that were not in the House bill.
This good bill will end the shutdown
at USDA and FDA. Funds for economic
development loans and grants for rural
areas will begin to flow again. It will
ensure the continuation of the Na-
tional School Lunch Program, WIC,
and SNAP without interruption.
It will allow some 8,400 USDA meat
and poultry inspectors to be paid for
the work that they have been doing for
free and will allow FDA to conduct
food safety inspections at the nec-
essary level instead of the bare min-
imum.
As I have said before, this bill touch-
es the lives of every American. I im-
plore Members on both sides to support
this bill. Reopen the government. It is
time that we restore the services
Americans count on and pay the people
who provide them.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I appreciate my friend from Georgia
and his remarks a minute ago. In fact,
they sounded very familiar. I think I
heard them maybe 20 days ago, because
this is really nothing more than just
theater today. If we are in a theater,
this is nothing more than a rerun.
We have been through this exercise.
So, for those in the gallery and watch-
ing, you have probably seen this before
because it was on January 3 that we
took up a bill much like this. We were
told then, Mr. Speaker, that: If you
pass this, the government will reopen.
This is the answer.
But here we are again, 20 days later,
and nothing has changed. In fact, the
arguments are the same. This is not a
good-faith effort at all. I think just less
than an hour ago, we voted on an ap-
propriations measure by the new ma-
jority that said, if we pass this, the
government will reopen, and employees
will be paid, and everything will be
back to normal, and harmony will be
around all of us.
But that was less than an hour ago.
Nothing has changed. In fact, we are
here right again.
So, going back to January 3, with a
bill much like this, six appropriations
bills bundled together that had passed
the Senate at some point in the past
were voted on by this House. They
went to the Senate. No action was
taken.
The next day, January 4, we voted on
a continuing resolution to fund the re-
mainder of the government, because
that, again, was going to be the solu-
tion. That was the silver bullet. It was
going to open the government, put ev-
erybody back to work, and have all the
employees paid. But, in fact, nothing
happened, nothing changed.
We go into the next week. Because
that didn’t work, let’s break them all
up and let’s do them all separately. I
am not sure why. Maybe we will get a
different outcome. But nothing
changed.
In fact, they left the House. They go
to the Senate. The government is yet
still closed.
Then, last week, let’s do something
very different. Let’s don’t take up any
of those again. Let’s just pass a con-
tinuing resolution because, surely, we
missed the mark those other times.
This will reopen the government. This
was the solution, we were told, last
week.
In fact, Mr. Speaker, nothing has
changed 33 three days in. Here we are
again.
But we have started over. We are
going to do it again, but we are going
to change the terminology. These are
the agreed-upon conference reports
from last year. I heard the majority
say it was the Republicans who had
unified control of the House, the Sen-
ate, and the Presidency that agreed to
these things last year, so let’s bring
those up today.
But that is just a term. That is not
truth. It is not fact.
For those watching and those in the
gallery, they probably know and re-
member the cartoon ‘‘Schoolhouse
Rock.’’ I believe it was very clear in a
simple cartoon: You go from the House.
You go to the Senate. There is an
amendment process. You have the op-
portunity to change, to amend, to per-
fect.
Then, when each body has passed
something, you go to a committee.
Those individuals from the House and
the Senate, they get together. They
reach an agreement, and it is called a
conference committee report, which we
are led to believe this might be. With
that come signatures on this report.
Then it is presented to each body for
final passage and then to the adminis-
tration for signature.
If this is, in fact, a conference com-
mittee report, how could it be? How
could it be, Mr. Speaker? Because it
would have had to have passed the
House at some point this Congress,
within the last 20 days, and then have
passed the Senate different, and then
differences reconciled, also with signa-
tures.
Mr. Speaker, I would ask, is my sig-
nature on any of this? To answer it for
the Chair, it is no. I was chairman last
year of the Financial Services Com-
mittee. We did have good-faith negotia-
tions. Mr. QUIGLEY is fantastic to work
with. We were reaching consensus and
had great compromise.
So, today, to hear the other side say
that this is what I agreed to is truly in-
accurate, because you will not find my
signature. You will not find any agree-
ment from me on what is presented in
the Financial Services portion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00153 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.050 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1154 January 23, 2019
So this is not a good-faith effort.
This is a repeat and a futile exercise
that we have seen over the last 20 days.
In fact, I doubt anybody is even
watching, because you know where
their attention is today? I hope it is in
the Senate, where they are taking up
the President’s proposal—a true, good-
faith effort to reopen the government,
to secure our country, to secure the
border, and to make sure that 800,000
Federal employees are being rightfully
compensated.
That is where the attention should
be. I wish the House would take up
similar, but in the spirit of com-
promise. We don’t see it here.
In fact, Mr. Speaker, I will draw your
attention back about 11 months ago. I
believe it was the now-Speaker of the
House, NANCY PELOSI, who holds the
record for the longest single speech
standing on the floor of the House, 8
hours and 7 minutes. It was over a very
important issue. It was over DACA.
The government went into a shut-
down moment last year. There was this
big debate about it. It was then-Minor-
ity-Leader NANCY PELOSI who took 8
hours and 7 minutes to speak about
this issue.
Yet when the President, this week-
end, makes a proposal about it, before
he can even reach the lectern, Mr.
Speaker, she is opposed to it. She is op-
posed to it.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentlewoman from Min-
nesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM), my good
friend, the chair of the Interior, Envi-
ronment, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of this omnibus ap-
propriations bill, and I come to you in
good faith with it.
Two weeks ago, our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle told us that they
could not support the appropriations
bills on the House floor because they
reflected only the Senate’s priorities.
Well, there is good news today. The
bill before us is a product of bipartisan
negotiations. It reflects both the prior-
ities of the House and the Senate. It is
a compromise bill, and it will reopen
our government.
The interior and environment section
provides $35.6 billion, which is $300 mil-
lion more than the fiscal year 2018 en-
acted bill.
We made critical investments in this
legislation in Indian Country, environ-
mental protection, public lands man-
agement, and the arts.
The National Park Service is funded
at $3.2 billion, an increase of more than
$20 million. This money is more ur-
gently needed than ever because of the
damage at our national parks due to
the Trump shutdown.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund, which supports tens of thousands
of projects all across the States, is
funded at $435 million. That is a $10
million increase.
The Environmental Protection Agen-
cy is funded at $8.8 billion. That is an
increase of $17 million above the 2018
enacted level.
Clean water and safe drinking water
go hand-in-hand, so I am pleased that
this bill includes $2.9 billion for the
State revolving funds and $35 million
for grants that reduce lead in drinking
water, even at our schools. This fund-
ing will enhance the EPA’s ability to
protect human health and the health of
our environment.
We continue to invest in Historically
Black Colleges and Universities, the
Civil Rights Initiative grant program,
the Historic Preservation Fund, and
Save America’s Treasures.
Once again, we have worked in a bi-
partisan way to increase funding for
the National Endowment for the Arts
and for the National Endowment for
the Humanities.
Congress also continues its commit-
ment to providing funds necessary for
the Smithsonian to complete its reha-
bilitation on the beloved National Air
and Space Museum.
Finally, critically, it is important
that this interior bill upholds the Fed-
eral Government’s trust responsibil-
ities to our Native American brothers
and sisters. Funding for Indian Coun-
try is $1 billion more than the Presi-
dent’s budget. It provides a $266 million
increase in the Indian Health Service,
the largest increase for any agency in
this bill, and it is a $17 million increase
for the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
This bill is a lifeline to restart fund-
ing and stop the senseless cruelty of
the Trump shutdown in Indian Coun-
try. Basic services like health clinics,
Tribal Justice services, and food assist-
ance for seniors are being put at risk
for nearly 1.9 million Americans
throughout Indian Country.
As Democrats have continued to ad-
vance bills to reopen the government,
to end the Trump shutdown, I have lis-
tened to my colleagues across the aisle.
Our colleagues insisted that, if we
brought up the conference negotiated
bills, they would give their support.
Well, this is it. This is the conference
negotiated bill, and, Mr. Speaker, I am
looking forward to their support.
Programs in the interior bill impact
all of us, from preserving our natural
and cultural resources to protecting
our health and our safety by ensuring
clean air to breathe and clean water to
drink, for today and for future genera-
tions.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both sides to support this bill, and I
thank Mrs. LOWEY for yielding me the
time.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Ne-
braska (Mr. FORTENBERRY).
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the ranking member, Ms.
GRANGER, for her indulgence in letting
me speak today. Let me thank our
chair, Mrs. LOWEY, as well for at least
the ability today to have a discussion.
Mr. Speaker, no one wins in a govern-
ment shutdown. No one wins if the bor-
der is not secure. That is where we are.
On my way here yesterday, as I was
scrambling to get to the airport—and I
live in Nebraska, a relatively small
State, so we all kind of know one an-
other or at least kind of recognize one
another. As I checked in with my
boarding pass and showed the TSA
agent my ID, he looked at me and he
said: Can you vote for the bill?
Now, given it is the Senate bill that
is dominating the headlines, because it
is a reasoned attempt to reach some
type of consensus here, I looked at the
TSA agent and I said: Yes, I can. I
know this has been tough. How long
can you hold out?
He said: It is tough. I don’t want to
miss another paycheck, but I can hold
out about 30 days.
He said please. I thanked him for his
service. Right now, I would like to
thank all of the people who have come
back to work without pay, who have
done their duty, many under some
hardship, because they know it is the
right thing to do.
Yet, what is also the right thing to
do is to get past this logjam, this im-
passe, and to leverage this moment and
to actually get an outcome, a bipar-
tisan outcome, that secures our border.
This weekend, the President, I
thought, laid out a reasoned proposal
that included a spectrum of immigra-
tion issues, most of which enjoy robust
bipartisan support, including border se-
curity. And what do we need there?
Personnel. We need technology, and we
need enhanced barriers.
Now, there is the possibility of some
movement on these important ques-
tions of reopening the government and
getting the right type of border secu-
rity that now sits in the United States
Senate. But I thought Senator
LANKFORD made a good comment as
well. He said this isn’t a yes or a no
proposition, on that particular bill. It
is the starting point, again, for a rea-
soned debate about how we find some
consensus.
Mr. Speaker, America is a just and
generous Nation, and we have opened
our arms to people who wish to come
here and embrace the values, people
who have fled political or economic
persecution and want to rebuild their
lives. That is the hallmark of who we
are.
But charity cannot flow out of chaos.
When you have disorder at the border,
you have an inability to have a just
and humanitarian system that is bene-
ficial to America and to people in need
all around the world.
b 1445
And that, fundamentally, is what is
at issue here today—not necessarily
finding a compromise, but a consensus.
A compromise implies that somebody
may win and somebody may lose. Let’s
all win here. Let’s get the government
reopened with the right type of pack-
age that includes robust border secu-
rity that can make America proud.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00154 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.053 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1155
January 23, 2019
(Mr. QUIGLEY), my good friend and the
chair of the Financial Services and
General Government Subcommittee.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Madam Chairwoman for yielding me
time.
During these heated times, we are ac-
cused of sometimes not listening to
each other. Well, we listened to them.
They all wanted the conference bills,
and they have them. And I have heard
today that what we need is a com-
promise on border security, which is
interesting, because we are here on day
33 of the shutdown because of the
President’s singular focus, almost an
obsession, on a symbolic but ineffec-
tive wall, not border security.
He is holding the government, its
workers, and the services they provide
hostage because he has convinced him-
self, and surely his base, that the wall
will protect us from violent crime and
end the flow of illegal drugs.
If the President actually believes
that border security is the end goal of
the wall, then fine, let’s reopen the
government and have that debate, be-
cause our plans for border security ac-
tually work.
Enacting the bills before us today
does nothing to preclude the President
from continuing to make his case on
the wall. He and the Republicans have
simply concluded that by continuing to
impose suffering on Federal workers
and the public that relies on them, it
strengthens their hand in negotiations
in only one element of that, an ineffec-
tive element, the wall. That is not the
way our government is designed to
work, nor should it work. This is gov-
erning by extortion, and we should all
stand together to reject such tactics.
Democrats know that we can do more
to strengthen border security, but it
has to be done in a smart and effective
way. We know that more than 87 per-
cent of the hard narcotics are coming
through our official ports of entry. A
wall will do nothing to stop that.
That is why the Financial Services
and General Government division of
this bill responsibly puts money where
it is most critically needed. It includes
full funding for construction of two of
the highest priority ports of entry
along the southwest border to help
stem the flow of illegal goods, nar-
cotics, and people being smuggled into
the country.
Overall, this conference agreement
provides $1.6 billion for border security,
real border security, and we are pre-
pared to do more. During my visit to
the southern border in October, I was
briefed on security needs, and I heard a
lot about new cameras, sensors, radars
mounted on towers, vehicles to spot
moving people and objects, and for
drones to surveil tough terrain, roads
that are parallel to the border, all
things that actually work.
And at the ports of entry, they need
new technology to eventually scan all
commercial and passenger vehicles for
illegal drugs and contraband. We can
provide these resources. This bill shows
that we are willing and able to put a
downpayment on these bipartisan solu-
tions. So, again, if it is about border
security and that is why we are here,
then fine, let’s pass the bill, reopen the
government, and have that debate.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
4 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. JOYCE).
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the ranking member from Texas
for yielding and the chairwoman from
New York.
Mr. Speaker, I am honored to be
speaking here today as the newly ap-
pointed ranking member of the Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Subcommittee. I
am honored to be paired with the
newly appointed chair of the sub-
committee, my friend and fellow Great
Lakes advocate, Congresswoman BETTY
MCCOLLUM from Minnesota. I am
thrilled to be working with her in this
capacity, and I look forward to many
years of bipartisanship and collabora-
tion on behalf of our constituents, our
States, and our country.
The Interior division of the omnibus
bill before us today was negotiated in
good faith by both House Republicans
and House Democrats. It reflects bipar-
tisan priorities and represents many
months of hard work by the House Ap-
propriations Committee.
I am pleased that the bill includes
$3.9 billion for the Department of the
Interior and the United States Forest
Service to fight devastating wildfires;
$9 billion to increase the Federal com-
mitment to our treaty and trust agree-
ments with American Indians and Alas-
ka Natives; over $31⁄2 billion to improve
our Nation’s aging water infrastruc-
ture and improve public health; and
$1.9 billion to reduce maintenance
backlogs in our Nation’s parks, trails,
and wildlife refuges.
However, the Interior piece of this
bill was negotiated as part of a com-
prehensive package funding numerous
critical government functions, includ-
ing securing our Nation’s southern bor-
der. House Republicans conditionally
agreed to drop several high priority
provisions in the Interior bill in ex-
change for other priorities in this com-
prehensive package, including
strengthened border security.
We were so close to finishing that
package last year before the holidays,
which would have fully funded our gov-
ernment, addressed the crisis at our
southern border, and ensured all our
Nation’s Federal workers would con-
tinue receiving their paychecks, but,
sadly, that is when the negotiations on
border security broke down, and, short-
ly, thereafter, the government shut
down.
There is an old saying in negotiating
that nothing is agreed to until every-
thing is agreed to. And since a com-
promise has not been found on border
security, this Interior bill and the
other bills before us today are not a
true conference agreement. To suggest
otherwise would be to mislead the pub-
lic in an attempt to gain political high
ground on an issue that most of our
constituents expect us to instead find
common ground.
We all agree that strengthening our
borders is necessary, not only for our
Nation, but also for the welfare of
those willing to risk everything to
enter this country illegally in pursuit
of a better life. Let us be willing to
risk the criticism that too often gets in
the way of compromise. Let us have
the courage to meet each other in the
middle.
Our constituents have been counting
on us to reach agreement on border se-
curity and immigration policy since
long before this government shutdown
even started. So let’s stop using the
shutdown as an excuse to avoid a nego-
tiation because no one wins in a shut-
down and no one wins if the border
isn’t secure.
I am willing to work with any and all
of my House colleagues to break this
impasse as quickly as possible. Until
then, I must oppose this unfinished
package before us today, and I urge my
colleagues to do the same.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), my good friend and
the majority leader.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I am glad that Mr.
JOYCE is still on the floor. Mr. JOYCE, I
think, put his finger on the problem,
and the problem is: Gee, I really like
the Interior bill. It has been reached in
a bipartisan fashion, and it is wonder-
ful, but, by the way, the package is not
perfect because it doesn’t do what I
want done or what the President of the
United States wants done on one spe-
cific bill, Homeland Security.
My goodness, I don’t know why we
didn’t have an opportunity to con-
ference on that bill. You brought it to
the floor on December 20, 10 days be-
fore the end of the year—10 days before
the end of the year. If it was so impor-
tant, why did we wait 112⁄3 months to
bring it to the floor? How could we con-
ference a bill like that? There was no
time.
The reason you didn’t bring it to the
floor is you didn’t have the votes. Mr.
JOYCE, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. COLE all came
to this floor when we considered an-
other bill that was what the United
States Senate Republicans wanted in
their bills, and so we said we need to
open up this government.
Mr. GRAVES talked about and Mr.
JOYCE talked about consensus. Mr.
GRAVES used the word ‘‘consensus.’’
Hopefully, we will have a consensus on
this floor.
Shutting down the government of the
United States is stupid, irresponsible,
and dangerous. That ought to be a con-
sensus on this floor. And if that is the
consensus, as it certainly is mine and
certainly on my side of the aisle, then
the cure is to open up government.
We have offered 9, 10, 11 different al-
ternatives to do that, most of which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00155 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.055 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1156 January 23, 2019
were their bills formed in the last Con-
gress under the Republican leadership
in the House and the Senate. But,
sadly, they won’t take ‘‘yes’’ for an an-
swer, so they keep the government
shut down.
Only six Republicans in the last vote
voted to open up government. Every
Democrat, save one—and that had
nothing to do with opening or shutting
down government—voted to open up
this government of the people and for
the people.
I served on appropriations for 23
years. I never voted to shut down the
government, because the government is
there to serve the people, and we swear
an oath to protect and preserve. Some-
body is now going to say: Well, we put
something in a bill and you voted
against it, Hoyer, and that was an ap-
propriation bill. By the way, when I
voted against it, it passed.
Mr. Speaker, Democrats have been
trying to open this government since
the first day of our majority passing
their bills. When I say ‘‘their bills,’’
the Republican bills; they were out of
the Senate.
On January 3, the Democratic-led
House passed a package of six appro-
priations bills for fiscal year 2019 based
on the language approved overwhelm-
ingly in the Republican-controlled Sen-
ate, alongside a continuing resolution
for the seventh bill funding Homeland
Security, which, I will remind you, was
not brought to this floor until Decem-
ber 20, 2018.
What a high priority they placed on
that. They were in charge for 11
months and 20 days, and they never
brought it to the floor. High priority
item, obviously.
Senate Leader MCCONNELL passed a
bill through the Senate on a voice vote,
I think, unanimously, and sent it to us,
so government would be opened. We
would have voted for it, all of us, but
they didn’t bring it to the floor.
They brought a bill to the floor that
said they wanted to do something on
the wall. Why? Because the President
wanted to do something with the wall.
Why is the government shut down? Be-
cause the President will not allow the
Congress of the United States to act to
open it up. And Senator MCCONNELL,
for unknown reasons, believes that we
have to have a by-your-leave, Mr.
President, to open up this government.
This is historic that we have shut
down the government for this length of
time. It is unforgivable that we have
put 800,000 of our fellow citizens—peo-
ple who work for this government, peo-
ple who help millions of people every
day to get assistance they need or doc-
uments that they have to have to set-
tle on a home, or make sure that there
is training for firefighters, or any one
of thousands of different, critically im-
portant jobs that the Federal Govern-
ment does—out of work. They, on the
Republican side of the aisle, my col-
leagues, have done that. They have
shut down the government. We have
not.
Unless you think taking a hostage
and demanding a ransom and having us
not agree to that ransom is shutting
down the government, and, therefore,
you have to vote over and over and
over and over and over again to keep
the government of the people shut
down.
During the second week of January,
we passed, on an individual basis four
appropriations bills that passed the Re-
publican Senate last year 92–6. Is that
a partisan act on our part offering four
bills that passed the United States
Senate, which they controlled, 92–6?
When I say ‘‘they,’’ I mean, the Repub-
lican Party. These are not Democratic
bills we are trying to pass through with
some majority we have. We took their
bills. Why? Because we have a con-
sensus: shutting down the government
is the wrong thing to do.
b 1500
And very frankly, I think privately,
if you are asked that question, presum-
ably most of you respond with a con-
sensus answer: ‘‘You are right, it is. We
shouldn’t do that.’’
As the urgency of this shutdown grew
last week, House Democrats attempted
to send a continuing resolution at last
year’s funding levels.
Now, it is important to understand,
last year’s funding levels are the levels
that were set when the Republicans
were in charge of the House and the
Senate, not Democratic numbers.
This is not a partisan issue. This is
an issue about doing the right thing:
opening up the government. So we were
prepared to send your bills, and you
voted against your own bills.
I can’t understand it, and I can’t un-
derstand why anybody in America
doesn’t understand that we are for
opening up government and the Repub-
licans are repeatedly and consistently
voting not to open up the government.
House Republicans rejected those four
bills that were Republican bills.
Next, we voted to add an amendment
to reopen the government through Feb-
ruary 8, a short term—give us time to
talk and discuss and see if we can come
to agreement. It seems to me to make
sense. That is usually what short-term
CRs are for. We may yet find out to-
morrow whether Senate Republicans
can agree to reopen government under
those terms. I hope they do.
In the meantime, late last week, we
also brought a continuing resolution to
the floor to reopen the government
through February 28. Okay. Maybe we
need a longer time to negotiate.
Democrats have been trying to end
this Trump-McConnell shutdown non-
stop since taking control of this House.
That work continues this week as we
bring to the floor a new appropriations
package.
As we debated the Senate-authored
versions—let me say that again, the
Senate-authored versions, not our
versions—of funding bills earlier this
month, some of my Republican col-
leagues came to this floor and said that
their objection to it was because it did
not reflect the House position.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, you just
heard Mr. JOYCE talk about the Inte-
rior bill. Presumably, if the Interior
bill were here alone, he would vote
against it because it didn’t have na-
tional security interest in it. On that
theory, we ought to vote against 11 of
the bills that we don’t like individ-
ually, but you brought them as pack-
ages last time. I thought that was a
good example.
We are going to do it again. But the
fact of the matter is it is not because
you are disagreeing with your bill—you
come as the ranking member, I say to
my friend, Mr. Speaker—but because of
some other issue. We can all find some
other issue.
So I think there is a consensus that
shutting down the government is the
wrong thing to do, and unless you be-
lieve that shutting down government is
okay, you will vote ‘‘yes’’ on these bills
to open up our government, the peo-
ple’s government. Serve your constitu-
ents and the American people, gen-
erally.
I don’t know why you keep voting
‘‘no’’ just because the President tells
you to do so. That is not what your
constituents sent you here to do. Our
constituents sent us here, Mr. Speaker,
to serve them. The writers of the Con-
stitution of the United States didn’t
say the President tells Congress what
to do. They said Congress tells the
President what to do, and he executes
that policy.
That is what separation of powers is
all about. Not for Senator MCCONNELL
to say: Unless the President says it is
okay, I am not going to put a bill on
the floor. What kind of misreading of
the Constitution of the United States
is that?
We are the policymakers of America.
We are the ones who send to the Presi-
dent. Yes, he has a role, a critical role.
He can veto, and we need two-thirds to
override his veto, but it is not to say:
Mr. President, we won’t even put it on
the floor for the Representatives of the
people of the United States to express
their opinion on unless you say okay.
Let’s get a spine. Let’s stand up.
Let’s act like the Article I institution
we represent. Let us be independent.
Let us have what democracy de-
mands: differences of opinion argued
out, not by taking hostages, not by de-
manding ransom, but by discussion, by
debate, and by votes. That is what de-
mocracy is about.
And if it becomes common practice
for President Trump or any other
President to say to us: ‘‘If I don’t like
what you are doing, I am going to shut
down your government’’—that is what
is happening here.
It is not just about a wall. It is about
whether tomorrow the President is
going to make some other demand and
shut down the government, or tomor-
row and tomorrow and tomorrow when
the President makes another demand
and shuts down the government.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00156 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.056 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1157
January 23, 2019
When will it stop, my friends? Maybe
never, but it will not continue with my
vote.
Vote for this bill. Open up the peo-
ple’s government. Stand up and be
what America believes you are, an
independent, coequal branch of the
Government of the United States. Vote
‘‘yes’’ for your country and for the peo-
ple you represent.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the bill
before us today, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, Demo-
crats have been clear throughout the
Trump shutdown. We support investing
in strong, smart, and effective border
security, and we are prepared to nego-
tiate once the government is reopened.
The solution to the Trump shutdown
is simple: Reopen the government; pay
off Federal employees; then negotiate
on border security. Our proposal will
form the basis for these eventual nego-
tiations.
It is time to end the Trump shut-
down. Vote for this package of six bills
that reflects conference agreements
where we worked together from last
year. Reopen most of the government.
Let workers get paid. Vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support the consolidated package
of six appropriations bills and reopen the fed-
eral government.
This unprecedented shutdown has ground
our country to a halt.
Every day this shutdown continues, families
in my district suffer a cruel fate. From missed
paychecks, uncertainty in food benefits, to
delays in critical efforts that protect the health
and safety of our country.
The shutdown impacts Universities con-
ducting critical research, in my region, at the
University of Toledo. Twenty-five percent of
the University of Toledo’s research awards are
from agencies affected by the shutdown. An-
ticipated grants are now delayed.
This week, nine of UT’s researchers on
aerospace projects for NASA Glenn Research
Center in Cleveland will be placed on leave
without pay.
Aquatic ecologists fighting invasive Asian
carp in the Great Lakes have been put on
hold.
The health of the Great Lakes is in danger.
This is not the time to risk the vitality of our
region on partisan bickering. I would like to in-
clude in the RECORD the following article about
the impacts of the shutdown on EPA inspec-
tors unable to protect our water.
I call on all my colleagues to support this ef-
fort and reopen government.
[From the New York Times, Jan. 9, 2019]
SHUTDOWN MEANS E.P.A. POLLUTION
INSPECTORS AREN’T ON THE JOB
(By Coral Davenport)
WASHINGTON.—The two-week-old shutdown
has halted one of the federal government’s
most important public health activities, the
inspections of chemical factories, power
plants, oil refineries, water treatment
plants, and thousands of other industrial
sites for pollution violations.
The Environmental Protection Agency has
furloughed most of its roughly 600 pollution
inspectors and other workers who monitor
compliance with environmental laws. Those
scientists, engineers and analysts are respon-
sible for detecting violations that endanger
human health, as they did, for example dur-
ing an August 2018 airborne inspection that
found that oil and gas fields in Karnes Coun-
ty, Tex., were leaking illegal levels of chemi-
cals into the atmosphere, in violation of the
Clean Air Act.
While the inspection personnel represent a
relatively small proportion of the E.P.A.’s
total of about 15,000 workers, their absence
increases the chances that, either by design
or by accident, companies might emit illegal
levels of contaminants into the air or water
without detection, for weeks on end, accord-
ing to people familiar with the E.P.A. inspec-
tions.
‘‘There are plants that discharge waste-
water into streams and rivers, places that
store hazardous chemicals in containers that
could leak—we show up and test these places
to see if they’re meeting pollution laws,’’
said Garth Connor, a furloughed E.P.A. in-
spector based in Philadelphia who has been
off the job since Monday. ‘‘Now there’s no-
body out there to check if they’re com-
plying.’’
Mr. Connor inspects for air and water pol-
lution and hazardous waste disposal at sites
throughout the Mid-Atlantic.
The inspectors ‘‘are the cops on the beat,’’
Cynthia Giles, who headed the E.P.A. en-
forcement division during the Obama admin-
istration, wrote in an email.
She noted that, in 2017, E.P.A. workers per-
formed about 11,700 such inspections, aver-
aging to about 225 inspections per week, ac-
cording to the agency’s records. The num-
bers suggest that hundreds of such inspec-
tions may have already been canceled this
year, with the potential for hundreds more
to not take place should the shutdown con-
tinue for days or weeks more. ‘‘Those weeks
can never be made up,’’ Ms. Giles wrote. ‘‘In
addition to the violations not found and the
inspections not done, there is also the im-
pact of no inspectors in the field doing unan-
nounced inspections,’’ she added, asking:
‘‘Will that result in more violations because
companies know E.P.A. isn’t watching?’’
Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator
of the E.P.A., did not respond to an email re-
questing comment. On Wednesday, President
Trump formally nominated Mr. Wheeler,
who was confirmed last year as the deputy
chief of the agency, to formally take over as
the agency head. When on the job, E.P.A. in-
spectors regularly cite companies for viola-
tions that endanger human health. For ex-
ample, during an April 2016 inspection at a
Firestone rubber plant in Sulphur, La.,
E.P.A. inspectors discovered that the plant
was emitting illegal levels of butadiene, a
carcinogen, into the community.
A telephone message left at the plant was
not returned.
Some E.P.A. inspections are unannounced.
Others take the form of two- and three-week
on-site visits.
Still other examinations don’t happen on-
site: E.P.A. experts sitting in labs or at com-
puters will review documents detailing a
plant’s own reported emissions of pollution
or wastewater, checking whether legal limits
were met or violated. These activities, too,
are on pause during the shutdown.
Inspectors need to read those reports ‘‘and
say, ‘no, you can’t do that,’ ’’ said Eric
Schaeffer, who worked at the E.P.A. on en-
forcement from 1990 to 2002 and now runs the
Environmental Integrity Project, an advo-
cacy group. ‘‘Then they follow up and go on-
site. But none of that is happening.’’
Unlike other federal agencies affected by
the government shutdown, the E.P.A. con-
tinued to operate through the week of Dec.
24, but pollution inspections, along with
most of the rest of the work of the agency,
had ceased by New Year’s Eve.
Mr. Schaeffer recalled the effect on pollu-
tion enforcement of the longest government
shutdown in history, which ran from Dec. 16,
1995, to Jan. 6, 1996.
‘‘That was one of the worst years ever at
the E.P.A. in terms of numbers of inspec-
tions and enforcement,’’ he said. He added
that the damage to the work of pollution in-
spections didn’t end completely once the
government reopened. ‘‘Everything was
ground to a halt, bogged down. You can’t
just restart at 100 miles per hour. You have
to reschedule everything.’’ Another former
E.P.A. official who now lobbies on behalf of
industry offered a different view, saying that
a shutdown of even a few weeks was unlikely
to make much difference in the amount of il-
legal pollution emitted or detected.
‘‘What you have is a delay,’’ said the
former official, Jeffrey Holmstead, who
served in the E.P.A. during both Bush ad-
ministrations and now works for some of the
largest coal companies and electric utilities
in the country. ‘‘I don’t think it’s true that
all of a sudden, because E.P.A.’s inspectors
are not there, that most people will take ad-
vantage of that,’’ he said. ‘‘There may be a
few folks who believe they can get away with
more, but I don’t think that’s the biggest
issue.’’
Among Mr. Holmstead’s clients are several
companies that have been cited for viola-
tions by the E.P.A., including the electric
utility Southern Company, which has had 52
sites with violations over the past five years,
including 23 sites with current violations, ac-
cording to E.P.A.’s enforcement database.
An email sent to a Southern Company
spokesman requesting comment on the vio-
lations was not answered.
Another of Mr. Holmstead’s clients, the
electric utility, Ameren, owns 23 sites that
have been cited for pollution violations over
the past five years. A telephone message left
with an Ameren spokeswoman was not re-
turned.
In many years, about 10 to 20 percent of
the E.P.A.’s pollution inspections turn up
significant violations, according to the agen-
cy’s data.
Most operators ‘‘really are doing a good
job,’’ said Adam Kushner, a former top legal
official at the E.P.A. ‘‘But there’s a 1 percent
that are bad actors, who will continue to do
what they’re going to do, unless inspectors
find them. And then there are sites where
the operator just may not have identified the
problem, and they’re putting bad stuff out
into the air without knowing it.’’
Angela McFadden, a furloughed E.P.A. en-
vironmental engineer who oversees state per-
mits for pollution discharge and has worked
as an on-site inspector dealing with clean
water violations, said she ‘‘always’’ found
violations during her time as an inspector.
For example, she said, in inspecting munic-
ipal water systems in rural areas she fre-
quently found that cities and towns over-
chlorinated or under-chlorinated their
water—not a legal violation, but a poten-
tially harmful situation that is easily cor-
rected when identified by an inspector.
Ms. McFadden recalled a more frightening
inspection she once performed in Pennsyl-
vania that found excessive nitrate levels in a
municipal water supply. Nitrates can sap ox-
ygen from the blood and, when found in high
levels in drinking water, are linked to ‘‘blue
baby syndrome,’’ in which infants struggle
to deliver enough oxygen to their bodies.
‘‘Right now, E.P.A. is not monitoring any
of that,’’ Ms. McFadden said. ‘‘Things are
falling through the cracks.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00157 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.057 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1158 January 23, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 61, the
previous question is ordered on the bill.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit at the dais.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
Ms. GRANGER. I am, in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. Granger moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 648 to the Committee on Appropriations
with instructions to report the same back to
the House forthwith with the following
amendment:
Strike section 1 and all that follows and
insert the following: ‘‘There are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, such sums as
may be necessary for the pay of any em-
ployee furloughed or excepted during the
lapse in appropriations beginning on Decem-
ber 22, 2018, as authorized by subsection (c) of
section 1341 of title 31, United States Code
(as added by the Government Employee Fair
Treatment Act of 2019).’’.
Ms. GRANGER (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of her motion.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, my mo-
tion amends the bill by striking all of
its contents and replacing it with an
appropriation to ensure Federal em-
ployees will get the backpay they de-
serve.
I am offering this motion because the
overall bill we are considering today
does not address the Department of
Homeland Security’s funding require-
ments to secure the border. Therefore,
we know the President will not support
it, so it will not reopen the Federal
Government or ensure our employees
are paid.
Last week, I essentially offered this
same motion, which, again, will imme-
diately provide the backpay our hard-
working Federal employees have
earned since this shutdown began.
This should be something that all
Members of this Chamber support, so it
is troubling that my friends on the
other side of the aisle chose to vote
against this measure when it was
brought to the floor last week. So we
are giving them yet another oppor-
tunity to end the political gamesman-
ship and vote for this measure today.
This shutdown has caused real-world
consequences for Federal employees,
such as Border Patrol and DEA agents,
TSA personnel, air traffic controllers,
and the hundreds of thousands of other
Federal employees suffering during
this shutdown.
These employees have bills to pay
and families to support. This motion
will ensure that they are able to do
that immediately while we continue
working toward a permanent solution
that will reopen the government.
We need to start working on legisla-
tion that can be enacted into law. This
motion is one such measure.
Federal employees should not suffer
because of the Democrats’ refusal to
negotiate.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the motion, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I claim
the time in opposition to the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from New York is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I want to
make it very clear to my colleagues:
This motion to recommit will ensure
the government remains closed. It will
be irresponsible to adopt this motion.
This means all those people who are
not getting paid will continue not to
get a paycheck to support their fami-
lies. They will not be able to go to the
supermarket and act like normal fami-
lies. This is totally irresponsible.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
strongly reject this motion, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by a 5-minute vote
on passage of the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 200, nays
215, not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 48]
YEAS—200
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Zeldin
NAYS—215
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00158 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.058 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1159
January 23, 2019
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—17
Abraham
Cartwright
DeLauro
Gibbs
Hartzler
Himes
Jones
McNerney
Neal
Payne
Rooney (FL)
Sánchez
Sensenbrenner
Velázquez
Wilson (FL)
Wright
Young
b 1544
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. TLAIB,
Messrs. BROWN of Maryland, SCOTT
of Virginia, GONZALEZ of Texas,
THOMPSON of Mississippi, and Ms.
UNDERWOOD changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. GUTHRIE, WITTMAN,
CUNNINGHAM, ARRINGTON, and
CARTER of Georgia changed their vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
Pursuant to clause 10 of rule XX, the
yeas and nays are ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 234, nays
180, not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 49]
YEAS—234
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—180
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Abraham
Cartwright
DeLauro
Gibbs
Hartzler
Himes
Jones
McNerney
Neal
Payne
Rice (SC)
Rooney (FL)
Sánchez
Sensenbrenner
Velázquez
Wilson (FL)
Wright
Young
b 1554
Ms. WATERS changed her vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO CERTAIN
STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, by direc-
tion of the House Republican Con-
ference, I send to the desk a privileged
resolution and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 68
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committees of the House of
Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE: Mr. Thomp-
son of Pennsylvania, Mr. Austin Scott of
Georgia, Mr. Crawford, Mr. DesJarlais, Mrs.
Hartzler, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Rodney Davis of
Illinois, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Allen, Mr. Bost, Mr.
Rouzer, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Kelly of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. Comer, Mr. Marshall, Mr.
Bacon, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Johnson of South Da-
kota, Mr. Baird, and Mr. Hagedorn.
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS: Mr. Rogers
of Kentucky, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Simpson, Mr.
Carter of Texas, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Cole, Mr.
Diaz-Balart, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr.
Womack, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Fleischmann,
Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr.
Harris, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Stewart,
Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Moolenaar,
Mr. Rutherford, and Mr. Hurd of Texas.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES: Mr. Wilson
of South Carolina, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr.
Turner, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Con-
away, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Wittman, Mrs.
Hartzler, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr.
Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Cook, Mr. Byrne,
Mr. Graves of Missouri, Ms. Stefanik, Mr.
DesJarlais, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Kelly of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Gaetz, Mr.
Bacon, Mr. Banks, Ms. Cheney, Mr. Mitchell,
Mr. Bergman, and Mr. Waltz.
COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION AND LABOR: Mr.
David P. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Thompson of
Pennsylvania, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Guthrie, Mr.
Byrne, Mr. Grothman, Ms. Stefanik, Mr.
Allen, Mr. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Smucker,
Mr. Walker, Mr. Banks, Mr. Comer, Mr.
Cline, Mr. Fulcher, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Watkins,
Mr. Wright, Mr. Meuser, Mr. Timmons, and
Mr. Johnson of South Dakota.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE: Mr.
Upton, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Sca-
lise, Mr. Latta, Mrs. Rogers of Washington,
Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Olson, Mr. McKinley, Mr.
Kinzinger, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr.
Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Long, Mr. Bucshon, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00159 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.017 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1160 January 23, 2019
Flores, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Mullin,
Mr. Hudson, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Carter of
Georgia, Mr. Duncan, and Mr. Gianforte.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES: Mr.
King of New York, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Posey, Mr.
Luetkemeyer, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Duffy, Mr.
Stivers, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Barr, Mr. Tipton,
Mr. Williams, Mr. Hill of Arkansas, Mr.
Emmer, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr.
Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Davidson of
Ohio, Mr. Budd, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee,
Mr. Hollingsworth, Mr. Gonzalez of Ohio, Mr.
John W. Rose of Tennessee, Mr. Steil, Mr.
Gooden, and Mr. Riggleman.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS: Mr. Smith
of New Jersey, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Wilson of
South Carolina, Mr. Perry, Mr. Yoho, Mr.
Kinzinger, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Sensenbrenner,
Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Mast, Mr. Rooney of Flor-
ida, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Curtis, Mr. Buck,
Mr. Wright, Mr. Reschenthaler, Mr.
Burchett, Mr. Pence, Mr. Watkins, and Mr.
Guest.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY: Mr.
McCaul, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Katko,
Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr.
Walker, Mrs. Lesko, Mr. Green of Tennessee,
Mr. Taylor, Mr. Joyce of Pennsylvania, Mr.
Crenshaw, and Mr. Guest.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY: Mr. Sensen-
brenner, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Jor-
dan, Mr. Buck, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mrs. Roby, Mr.
Gaetz, Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, Mr. Biggs,
Mr. McClintock, Mrs. Lesko, Mr.
Reschenthaler, Mr. Cline, Mr. Armstrong,
and Mr. Steube.
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM: Mr.
Amash, Mr. Gosar, Ms. Foxx of North Caro-
lina, Mr. Massie, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Hice of
Georgia, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Comer, Mr.
Cloud, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana,
Mr. Norman, Mr. Roy, Mrs. Miller, Mr. Green
of Tennessee, Mr. Armstrong, and Mr.
Steube.
COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND TECH-
NOLOGY: Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Posey,
Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Babin, Mr. Biggs,
Mr. Marshall, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Norman, Mr.
Cloud, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Olson, Mr. Gon-
zalez of Ohio, Mr. Waltz, and Mr. Baird.
COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRA-
STRUCTURE: Mr. Young, Mr. Crawford, Mr.
Gibbs, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Massie,
Mr. Meadows, Mr. Perry, Mr. Rodney Davis
of Illinois, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Katko, Mr.
Babin, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Rouzer,
Mr. Bost, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. LaMalfa,
Mr. Westerman, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Mitchell,
Mr. Mast, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Palmer, Mr.
Fitzpatrick, Miss González-Colón of Puerto
Rico, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Spano, Mr. Stauber,
Mrs. Miller, and Mr. Pence.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS: Mr.
Bilirakis, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Bost, Mr.
Dunn, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Banks, Mr. Barr,
Mr. Meuser, Mr. Watkins, Mr. Roy, and Mr.
Steube.
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS: Mr.
Nunes, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Smith of Ne-
braska, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Reed, Mr. Kelly of
Pennsylvania, Mr. Holding, Mr. Smith of
Missouri, Mr. Rice of South Carolina, Mr.
Schweikert, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. LaHood, Mr.
Wenstrup, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Ferguson, and
Mr. Estes.
Ms. CHENEY (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be considered as
read.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
NEGUSE). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentlewoman from Wyo-
ming?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
f
HARMFUL MOTION TO RECOMMIT
(Ms. MCCOLLUM asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to address the Republicans’ motion to
recommit that was offered on the pre-
vious bill and to explain to the Amer-
ican people the harm that that motion
would have caused.
The Trump shutdown is in its 33rd
day. Critical programs that help our
most vulnerable friends and neighbors,
like SNAP benefits for seniors, will
soon run out.
As chair of the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropria-
tions Subcommittee, I know the dif-
ficulties this shutdown is causing for
Indian Country, where basic healthcare
programs could end soon.
Mr. Speaker, for our Native Amer-
ican brothers and sisters, this shut-
down is literally a life-or-death matter,
and that is why the Republican motion
to recommit was so very disappointing.
It strips the entire text of the bill,
keeping the Federal Government
closed and threatening the well-being
of tens of millions of Americans.
It is callous, it is cruel, and it is
wrong. And that is why I join my
Democratic colleagues in rejecting the
motion to recommit.
House Democrats are doing our job.
We are passing legislation to reopen
the government and to fund our Fed-
eral employees with the paychecks
they deserve. Mr. Speaker, it is time
for the Senate and the President to do
the same.
f
b 1600
COMMENDING CHANDLER POLICE
CHIEF SEAN DUGGAN
(Mr. BIGGS asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to-
night to commend Chandler Police
Chief Sean Duggan for recently being
named the 2019 Chief of the Year by the
Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police.
Chief Duggan has served Arizonan
communities in law enforcement for
more than 30 years, following in the
footsteps of his father who was a New
York City police officer. He joined the
police force in 1986 when he started
with the Scottsdale Police Department
and also served as a member of the Ari-
zona Department of Public Safety’s
gang and illegal immigration task
force.
In an interview 5 years ago, after
being selected as Chandler’s top cop,
Chief Duggan said: ‘‘Was I a kid who
wanted to be chief? No. It’s the great-
est honor that can be bestowed on me
professionally.’’
Mr. Speaker, I say to Chief Duggan:
Your service to Chandler has been hon-
orable. The citizens of Chandler thank
you for your leadership. Throughout
your career, you have dedicated your-
self to protecting our liberties and en-
suring that criminals are removed from
the streets. The east valley is privi-
leged to count you as a neighbor,
influencer, and leader.
Congratulations on your award. You
have earned it.
f
PFAS TASK FORCE
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, Article I,
Section 27 of the Pennsylvania Con-
stitution reads: ‘‘The people have a
right to clean air, pure water, and to
the preservation of the natural, scenic,
historic, and esthetic values of the en-
vironment. Pennsylvania’s public nat-
ural resources are the common prop-
erty of all the people.’’
Pure water, it doesn’t get any more
basic than that. But for years, con-
stituents in my district in towns like
Horsham, Willow Grove, North Hills,
and Upper Dublin have worried about
the quality of their water and the im-
pact of that water on their health and
their family’s health. Like citizens who
live near military bases across the
country, their water supplies have been
contaminated with a class of manmade
chemicals known as PFAS.
Unfortunately, government has been
slow to act. The EPA has attempted to
block research showing just how dan-
gerous these chemicals really are.
Testing and cleanup have been insuffi-
cient, and, now, day 33 of the adminis-
tration’s shutdown, 93 percent of EPA
workers are furloughed, challenging
our ability to deal with this and other
important issues.
But today, we in the Congress have
launched a bipartisan PFAS Task
Force. I invite all Members of Congress
to work with us on this matter of gen-
uine national concern.
f
BACKPAY FOR FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES
(Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Mr.
Speaker, just a few minutes ago, we
voted to fund Federal pay through the
end of the shutdown. Republicans voted
unanimously with bipartisan support
from 10 Democrats. If we had just eight
more Democrats, our Federal workers
would be getting paychecks. Now hard-
working Americans are facing a second
zero-dollar paycheck.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00160 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.021 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1161
January 23, 2019
President Trump has asked Demo-
crats to work with him to find a way to
reopen the government and pay our
furloughed employees, but Speaker
PELOSI didn’t even listen to the Presi-
dent’s proposal before she rejected it
this weekend.
This is ridiculous. The President of-
fered a legitimate proposal with the
compromises that Democrats asked
for, the same priorities that Speaker
PELOSI talked about just last year. In
return, he wants the funding to solve
the crisis at our border.
This is bigger than partisan games.
This is the lives and livelihood of hun-
dreds of thousands of Americans. Let’s
stop stonewalling, stop the theatrics,
and do our jobs.
f
SHUTDOWN
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
what my good friends have not heard is
the outrage and cry of the desperate
Federal workers, some sending their
children to relatives because they can-
not support them, museums shut down
costing $4 million, TSA officers not
able to come to work, and air traffic
controllers suffering.
Today, Democrats did again what
they have done over and over again.
The message is: Mr. President, open
the government, pay the workers now,
and let us sit down at the table of rec-
onciliation and iron out the question of
border security.
As a member of the Homeland Secu-
rity Committee, I have voted time
after time as a Democrat for border se-
curity—barriers, drones, technology,
jeeps, and laptops. I know what it is. I
am from a border State. I have been to
the borders in the daylight and in the
dark.
Today, we voted to open up Agri-
culture, Commerce, Justice, financial
services, environment, Transportation,
Housing, and all of the law enforce-
ment we voted for.
Our simple cry is: Mr. President, un-
derstand the pain of America. Open the
government, pay the workers, and let’s
get down to the business of negotiating
on behalf of the American people.
f
HONORING AL AND CHERYL
HODGE
(Mr. GRAVES of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Albert Hodge,
Jr., and as anyone who knows Al will
attest, my remarks would not be com-
plete without a recognition of Al’s tal-
ented wife, Cheryl.
Over the past 21 years, Al has served
as president and CEO of the Rome,
Floyd County, Chamber of Commerce.
Thanks to his hard work, employers—
including Suzuki, Pirelli, Neaton, and
Lowe’s—have brought more than $1.2
billion of direct investment to our re-
gion and thousands of jobs.
But Al’s success would not be pos-
sible without Cheryl. Cheryl is not just
a supportive wife, mother, and grand-
mother. She is a Rome institution in
her own right. A talented artist active
with the Rome Area Council for the
Arts, Cheryl is best known for her
beautiful water colors, one of which is
hanging in my office right here in
Washington, D.C.
I pray for the best for Al and Cheryl,
wherever life takes them. They came
to Rome over 20 years ago, and it is
certainly a better place today because
of them.
Al and Cheryl, thank you and God
bless.
f
WE ARE A NATION OF
IMMIGRANTS
(Mr. ESPAILLAT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the New York
State Legislature for passing the
DREAM Act. States have had to step
up because of the Trump shutdown, be-
cause of our inability to move forward
and recognize that this continues to be
a nation of immigrants.
So States like New York today had
to pass the DREAM Act to allow in
young people, many of whom are
nurses, doctors, members of our Armed
Forces, and teachers who are contrib-
uting to our communities across the
country. All they want is a shot to be
part of the American Dream, because
this is a nation of immigrants.
The DREAM Act today in the New
York State Legislature was named
after my good friend who passed this
year, unfortunately, Senator Jose
Peralta.
I congratulate New York. That lady
still stands in the harbor with her
torch lighting the bay for everyone
across the world, because we are a na-
tion of immigrants.
f
SCHOOL CHOICE
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, this week,
we celebrate National School Choice
Week. Every child and family is unique
in their own way, and when it comes to
learning, it is no different. National
School Choice Week shines a bright
spotlight on effective educational op-
tions for children.
At the heart of our American values
is the belief that we can all pursue hap-
piness through hard work and dedica-
tion on the path to achieve the Amer-
ican Dream. This path starts at a
young age, and school choice empowers
parents and families to choose the best
educational environment for their
child, ensuring that the American
Dream can become a reality.
In the town of Dublin in my district,
school choice starts in elementary
school where students are encouraged
to find their passions early on and are
provided with the tools to succeed. And
it has worked. Dublin City Schools
have a 90 percent graduation rate, with
Dublin High School reaching almost 97
percent.
As a proud school choice supporter
and member of the House Education
and Labor Committee, I look forward
to continuing my work highlighting
the effect of school choice in Georgia
and throughout the Nation.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN’S
IMPACT ON CENTRAL VIRGINIANS
(Ms. SPANBERGER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Speaker,
today, I rise to share another story of
how this reckless shutdown is hurting
real people in real communities, in-
cluding in central Virginia.
Chesterfield, Virginia, resident
Donna Ingram has worked for the U.S.
Department of the Treasury for 15
years. She is a mother of two, and be-
cause of the shutdown, she is worried
about her ability to make ends meet.
Earlier this month, Donna’s pay stub
showed the word ‘‘furloughed,’’ and her
paycheck showed the number zero.
Donna is currently in the middle of
medical treatment, but because of the
shutdown’s financial harm, she has
been forced to discontinue her treat-
ment. Donna said her livelihood is at
stake and that she could lose every-
thing she has worked so hard for over
the past 15 years.
Donna said that Federal employees
like her want to work; they want to
serve our government and our commu-
nities; and they want to continue their
service.
Yet this is how we treat our public
servants here in the United States? Are
they bargaining chips?
I will continue to push for an imme-
diate end to the shutdown, because I do
not think they should ever be used as
bargaining chips. There are hundreds of
thousands of hardworking Federal em-
ployees like Donna who are depending
on us, their elected officials, to do our
jobs, to open this government, and to
restore the function of our govern-
ment.
f
END THIS SHUTDOWN
(Mr. MEUSER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I am new
here, but I am almost speechless. We
just had, moments ago, a vote that
would have provided pay to the Federal
workers who have not received their
paychecks this year.
Americans agree that we must pro-
vide for our border security, reopen the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00161 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.066 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1162 January 23, 2019
government, and end this shutdown.
But since House Democratic leadership
has refused to come to the table and
negotiate in good faith, the least we
could do is ensure our Federal workers
don’t suffer because of Washington’s
dysfunction.
Last week, only six Democrats joined
every Republican to vote to pay our
workers. This vote took place moments
ago, and 10 Democrats joined us again.
We have heard speeches today on the
floor, in the media, and all over the
news by Democrats who claim to
empathize with Federal workers who
have gone unpaid. But when they had
the chance today to pay them, for the
most part, they have declined.
We need to listen to the people, pay
our Federal workers, secure our bor-
ders, and end this shutdown.
f
SHUTDOWN
(Mr. MCADAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Speaker, work-
ing families in Utah are now facing an-
other lost pay period. Through no fault
of their own, they are suffering from
the last Congress’ failure to pass bills
to fund government operations and our
inability now to get an agreement to
end the shutdown.
This weekend, I heard stories first-
hand. Family members are facing med-
ical issues due to the stress of won-
dering when a spouse will be paid. IRS
workers worry about missing the train-
ing they need to be ready for proc-
essing tax returns. Air traffic control-
lers are working hard to keep airplanes
in proper airspace over the Salt Lake
Valley but are going without normal
staff backup and equipment mainte-
nance.
One individual who has been in gov-
ernment service for 30 years as a mem-
ber of the military and as a civilian has
applied for other jobs, knowing that he
is likely not going to get hired. Em-
ployers see too much uncertainty.
Small businesses are hurting because
their customers don’t have money to
eat at local restaurants or shop in local
stores. The shutdown is harming the
entire American economy and every
American.
As one worker said to me: Our jobs
have nothing to do with the border.
They have had enough of political
games. I support border security, and I
support Dreamers, but we need to end
the shutdown so that they can get back
to work.
f
REMEMBERING MARSHALL
COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in solidarity with the Marshall
County community to honor and re-
member the precious lives of Preston
Cope and Bailey Holt. Preston and Bai-
ley were victims of a tragic shooting at
Marshall County High School in Ben-
ton, Kentucky, on this day last year.
Marshall County High School is com-
prised of a truly compassionate group
of students, parents, and alumni who
have demonstrated the resiliency of
this community in the wake of such
devastation.
Preston Cope and Bailey Holt remain
in our hearts as we remember and
honor all that these young, bright indi-
viduals brought to their families,
friends, school, and community.
f
(1615)
TRUMP SHUTDOWN
(Mrs. LAWRENCE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today addressing the damaging impact
of Trump’s senseless shutdown in the
State of Michigan and in the 14th Dis-
trict.
Thirty days and Trump continues to
hold the American people hostage over
a wall that Mexico was supposed to pay
for. Over 5,000 workers in the State of
Michigan continue to suffer.
My constituents are suffering the
hardships because of this shutdown. A
constituent from Southfield, Michigan,
wrote:
I have worked for the Federal Government
for over 30 years. I have given 100 percent in
my career with the IRS, and now I am facing
the possibility of not being able to pay my
mortgage because of this shutdown.
Our Federal Government is supported
by a devoted workforce who are feeling
like they have been taken for granted
and used. This is unacceptable. Our
hardworking Federal employees de-
serve so much better.
This shutdown is causing chaos and
pain for our dedicated Federal workers
in America. It must stop.
f
BRING THE COUNTRY TOGETHER
FOR THE STATE OF THE UNION
(Mr. ZELDIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to voice my objection and dis-
appointment with the decision that
was made to disinvite the President of
the United States to address this
Chamber for the State of the Union.
I would like to commend Majority
Leader STENY HOYER, who, just yester-
day, said he would welcome the Presi-
dent here to the Chamber this upcom-
ing Tuesday.
This decision that was made is not
one to bring this House together. That
is a decision that is not one to move
our country forward. I object. And
many others in this Chamber do as
well, and I believe many Democrats do.
Then I hear that we are about to
leave again? I say we stay here. We
should all be in one room. No phones,
no pay, no one is leaving the room
until we have a deal and there is white
smoke.
That is how to lead, not to set us
backward, as we are seeing again by
the Speaker’s decision today.
f
NATIONAL SCHOOL CHOICE WEEK
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, this
week is National School Choice Week.
It is when we shine a light on the edu-
cational opportunities when they are
tailored to the individual student.
I was raised by four academics, and
they would be the first to tell you that,
in order to empower young people to
develop into the type of adults who can
solve the problems of tomorrow, their
educational experiences need to be tai-
lored.
No parent, no teacher, no student
wants an ill-fitting educational experi-
ence.
Education is the great equalizer. It is
the combat multiplier. It is the path
that leads toward American dreams.
God bless the American student. God
bless the American teacher.
f
READING OF THE CONSTITUTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ar-
kansas (Mr. HILL) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the Chair for the opportunity to
address the House today as we come to-
gether as Members of the House and
read our U.S. Constitution.
Long-time British Prime Minister
William Gladstone in 1878 said: ‘‘The
most wonderful work ever struck off at
a given time by brain and purpose of
man.’’ That is how he described the
U.S. Constitution.
For 2 centuries the Constitution has
dedicated the structure of our remark-
able Republic and created the oper-
ation of the consent of the governed
and the protection of a free people’s in-
dividual rights.
All of us who work here in the peo-
ple’s House marvel at its daily maj-
esty, of James Madison’s checks and
balances, separation of powers, and the
institutional hybrid of Federalism.
Today, we gather at the heart of the
Capitol, the heart of Article I, the first
branch, to read our governing docu-
ment:
‘‘We the People of the United States,
in Order to form a more perfect Union,
establish justice, insure domestic Tran-
quility, provide for the common
defence, promote the general Welfare,
and secure the Blessings of Liberty to
ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain
and establish this Constitution for the
United States of America.’’
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Article
I, Section 1:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00162 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.068 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1163
January 23, 2019
‘‘All legislative Powers herein grant-
ed shall be vested in a Congress of the
United States, which shall consist of a
Senate and House of Representatives.’’
Section 2:
‘‘The House of Representatives shall
be composed of Members chosen every
second Year by the People of the sev-
eral States, and the Electors in each
State shall have the Qualifications req-
uisite for Electors of the most numer-
ous Branch of the State Legislature.
‘‘No Person shall be a Representative
who shall not have attained to the Age
of twenty five Years, and been seven
Years a Citizen of the United States,
and who shall not, when elected, be an
Inhabitant of that State in which he
shall be chosen.
‘‘Representatives and direct Taxes
shall be apportioned among the several
States which may be included within
this Union, according to their respec-
tive Numbers, which shall be deter-
mined by adding to the whole Number
of free Persons, including those bound
to Service for a Term of Years, and ex-
cluding Indians not taxed, three fifths
of all other Persons.
‘‘The actual Enumeration shall be
made within three Years after the first
Meeting of the Congress of the United
States, and within every subsequent
Term of ten Years, in such Manner as
they shall by Law direct. The number
of Representatives shall not exceed one
for every thirty Thousand, but each
State shall have at Least one Rep-
resentative; and until such enumera-
tion shall be made, the State of New
Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse
three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode-Is-
land and Providence Plantations one,
Connecticut five, New-York six, New
Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, Dela-
ware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten,
North Carolina five, South Carolina
five, and Georgia three.’’
Mr. EMMER. ‘‘When vacancies hap-
pen in the Representation from any
State, the Executive Authority thereof
shall issue Writs of Election to fill such
Vacancies.
‘‘The House of Representatives shall
chuse their Speaker and other Officers;
and shall have the sole Power of Im-
peachment.’’
Section 3:
‘‘The Senate of the United States
shall be composed of two Senators from
each State, chosen by the Legislature
thereof, for six Years; and each Senator
shall have one vote.
‘‘Immediately after they shall be as-
sembled in Consequence of the first
Election, they shall be divided as
equally as may be into three Classes.
The Seats of the Senators of the first
Class shall be vacated at the expiration
of the second Year, of the second Class
at the expiration of the fourth Year,
and of the third Class at the expiration
of the sixth Year, so that one third
may be chosen every second Year; and
if Vacancies happen by Resignation, or
otherwise, during the Recess of the
Legislature of any State, the Executive
thereof may make temporary Appoint-
ments until the next Meeting of the
Legislature, which shall then fill such
Vacancies.’’
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. ‘‘No Person
shall be a Senator who shall not have
attained to the Age of thirty Years,
and been nine Years a Citizen of the
United States, and who shall not, when
elected, be an Inhabitant of that State
for which he shall be chosen.
‘‘The Vice President of the United
States shall be President of the Senate,
but shall have no Vote, unless they be
equally divided.
‘‘The Senate shall chuse their other
Officers, and also a President pro tem-
pore, in the Absence of the Vice Presi-
dent, or when he shall exercise the Of-
fice of President of the United States.
‘‘The Senate shall have the sole
Power to try all Impeachments. When
sitting for that Purpose, they shall be
on Oath or Affirmation. When the
President of the United States is tried,
the Chief Justice shall preside: And no
Person shall be convicted without the
Concurrence of two thirds of the Mem-
bers present.
‘‘Judgment in Cases of Impeachment
shall not extend further than to re-
moval from Office, and disqualification
to hold and enjoy any Office of honor,
Trust or Profit under the United
States: but the Party convicted shall
nevertheless be liable and subject to
Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Pun-
ishment, according to Law.’’
Mr. BOST. Section 4:
‘‘The Times, Places and Manner of
holding Elections for Senators and
Representatives, shall be prescribed in
each State by the Legislature thereof;
but the Congress may at any time by
Law make or alter such Regulations,
except as to the Places of chusing Sen-
ators.
‘‘The Congress shall assemble at
least once in every Year, and such
Meeting shall be [on the first Monday
in December,] unless they shall by Law
appoint a different Day.’’
Section 5:
‘‘Each House shall be the Judge of
the Elections, Returns and Qualifica-
tions of its own Members, and a Major-
ity of each shall constitute a Quorum
to do Business; but a smaller Number
may adjourn from day to day, and may
be authorized to compel the Attend-
ance of absent Members, in such Man-
ner, and under such Penalties as each
House may provide.
‘‘Each House may determine the
Rules of its Proceedings, punish its
Members for disorderly Behaviour, and,
with the Concurrence of two thirds,
expel a Member.
‘‘Each House shall keep a Journal of
its Proceedings, and from time to time
publish the same, excepting such Parts
as may in their Judgment require se-
crecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the
Members of either House on any ques-
tion shall, at the Desire of one fifth of
those Present, be entered on the Jour-
nal.’’
Mr. YOHO. ‘‘Neither House, during
the Session of Congress, shall, without
the consent of the other, adjourn for
more than three days, nor to any other
Place than that in which the two
Houses shall be sitting.’’
Section 6:
‘‘The Senators and Representatives
shall receive a Compensation for their
Services, to be ascertained by Law, and
paid out of the Treasury of the United
States. They shall in all Cases, except
Treason, Felony and Breach of the
Peace, be privileged from Arrest during
their Attendance at the Session of
their respective Houses, and in going to
and returning from the same; and for
any Speech or Debate in either House,
they shall not be questioned in any
other Place.
‘‘No Senator or Representative shall,
during the Time for which he was
elected, be appointed to any civil Office
under the Authority of the United
States, which shall have been created,
or the Emoluments whereof shall have
been encreased during such time; and
no Person holding any Office under the
United States, shall be a Member of ei-
ther House during his Continuance in
Office.’’
Mr. CONAWAY. Section 7:
‘‘All bills for raising Revenue shall
originate in the House of Representa-
tives; but the Senate may propose or
concur with Amendments as on other
Bills.
‘‘Every Bill which shall have passed
the House of Representatives and the
Senate, shall, before it become a Law,
be presented to the President of the
United States; If he approve he shall
sign it, but if not he shall return it,
with his Objections to that House in
which it shall have originated, who
shall enter the Objections at large on
their Journal, and proceed to recon-
sider it. If after such Reconsideration
two thirds of that House shall agree to
pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together
with the Objections, to the other
House, by which it shall likewise be re-
considered, and if approved by two
thirds of that House, it shall become a
Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of
both Houses shall be determined by
yeas and Nays, and the Names of the
Persons voting for and against the Bill
shall be entered on the Journal of each
House respectively. If any Bill shall
not be returned by the President with-
in ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it
shall have been presented to him, the
Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as
if he had signed it, unless the Congress
by their Adjournment prevent its Re-
turn, in which Case it shall not be a
Law.
‘‘Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to
which the Concurrence of the Senate
and House of Representatives may be
necessary (except on a question of Ad-
journment) shall be presented to the
President of the United States; and be-
fore the Same shall take Effect, shall
be approved by him, or being dis-
approved by him, shall be repassed by
two thirds of the Senate and House of
Representatives, according to the
Rules and Limitations prescribed in
the Case of a Bill.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00163 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.071 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1164 January 23, 2019
b 1630
Mr. WILLIAMS. Section 8:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power To
lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts
and Excises, to pay the Debts and pro-
vide for the common Defence and gen-
eral Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be
uniform throughout the United States;
‘‘To borrow Money on the credit of
the United States;
‘‘To regulate Commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian Tribes;
‘‘To establish a uniform Rule of Nat-
uralization, and uniform Laws on the
subject of Bankruptcies throughout the
United States;
‘‘To coin Money, regulate the Value
thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the
Standard of Weights and Measures;
‘‘To provide for the Punishment of
counterfeiting the Securities and cur-
rent Coin of the United States;
‘‘To establish Post Offices and post
Roads;
‘‘To promote the Progress of Science
and useful Arts, by securing for limited
Times to Authors and Inventors the ex-
clusive Right to their respective
Writings and Discoveries;
‘‘To constitute Tribunals inferior to
the supreme Court;
‘‘To define and punish Piracies and
Felonies committed on the high Seas,
and Offences against the Law of Na-
tions;’’
Mr. WALBERG. ‘‘To declare War,
grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal,
and make Rules concerning Captures
on Land and Water;
‘‘To raise and support Armies, but no
Appropriation of Money to that Use
shall be for a longer Term than two
Years;
‘‘To provide and maintain a Navy;
‘‘To make Rules for the Government
and Regulation of the land and naval
Forces;
‘‘To provide for calling forth the Mi-
litia to execute the Laws of the Union,
suppress Insurrections and repel Inva-
sions;
‘‘To provide for organizing, arming,
and disciplining, the Militia, and for
governing such Part of them as may be
employed in the Service of the United
States, reserving to the States respec-
tively, the Appointment of the Officers,
and the Authority of training the Mili-
tia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
‘‘To exercise exclusive Legislation in
all Cases whatsoever, over such Dis-
trict (not exceeding ten Miles square)
as may, by Cession of particular
States, and the Acceptance of Con-
gress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exer-
cise like Authority over all Places pur-
chased by the Consent of the Legisla-
ture of the State in which the Same
shall be, for the Erection of Forts,
Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and
other needful Buildings;—And’’
Mr. ALLEN. ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Depart-
ment or Officer thereof.
Section 9:
‘‘The Migration or Importation of
such Persons as any of the States now
existing shall think proper to admit,
shall not be prohibited by the Congress
prior to the Year one thousand eight
hundred and eight, but a Tax or duty
may be imposed on such Importation,
not exceeding ten dollars for each Per-
son.
‘‘The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas
Corpus shall not be suspended, unless
when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion
the public Safety may require it.
‘‘No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto
Law shall be passed.
‘‘No Capitation, or other direct, Tax
shall be laid, unless in Proportion to
the Census or enumeration herein be-
fore directed to be taken.
‘‘No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Ar-
ticles exported from any State.
‘‘No Preference shall be given by any
Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to
the Ports of one State over those of an-
other: nor shall Vessels bound to, or
from, one State, be obliged to enter,
clear, or pay Duties in another.
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the
Treasury, but in Consequence of Appro-
priations made by Law; and a regular
Statement and Account of the Receipts
and Expenditures of all public Money
shall be published from time to time.’’
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. ‘‘No Title of
Nobility shall be granted by the United
States: And no Person holding any Of-
fice of Profit or Trust under them,
shall, without the Consent of the Con-
gress, accept of any present, Emolu-
ment, Office, or Title, of any kind
whatever, from any King, Prince, or
foreign State.’’
Section 10:
‘‘No State shall enter into any Trea-
ty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant
Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin
Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any
Thing but gold and silver Coin a Ten-
der in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill
of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law
impairing the Obligation of Contracts,
or grant any Title of Nobility.
‘‘No State shall, without the Consent
of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Du-
ties on Imports or Exports, except
what may be absolutely necessary for
executing it’s inspection Laws: and the
net Produce of all Duties and Imposts,
laid by any State on Imports or Ex-
ports, shall be for the Use of the Treas-
ury of the United States; and all such
Laws shall be subject to the Revision
and Controul of the Congress.
‘‘No State shall, without the Consent
of Congress, lay any Duty of Tonnage,
keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of
Peace, enter into any Agreement or
Compact with another State, or with a
foreign Power, or engage in War, unless
actually invaded, or in such imminent
Danger as will not admit of delay.’’
Mr. BARR. Article II, Section 1:
‘‘The executive Power shall be vested
in a President of the United States of
America. He shall hold his Office dur-
ing the Term of four Years, and, to-
gether with the Vice President, chosen
for the same Term, be elected, as fol-
lows
‘‘Each State shall appoint, in such
Manner as the Legislature thereof may
direct, a Number of Electors, equal to
the whole Number of Senators and Rep-
resentatives to which the State may be
entitled in the Congress: but no Sen-
ator or Representative, or Person hold-
ing an Office or Trust or Profit under
the United States, shall be appointed
an Elector.
‘‘The Electors shall meet in their re-
spective States, and vote by Ballot for
two Persons, of whom one at least shall
not be an Inhabitant of the same State
with themselves. And they shall make
a List of all the Persons voted for, and
of the Number of Votes for each; which
List they shall sign and certify, and
transmit sealed to the Seat of the Gov-
ernment of the United States, directed
to the President of the Senate. The
President of the Senate shall, in the
Presence of the Senate and House of
Representatives, open all the Certifi-
cates, and the Votes shall then be
counted. The Person having the great-
est Number of Votes shall be the Presi-
dent, if such Number be a Majority of
the whole Number of Electors ap-
pointed; and if there be more than one
who have such Majority, and have an
equal Number of Votes, then the House
of Representatives shall immediately
chuse by Ballot one of them for Presi-
dent; and if no Person have a Majority,
then from the five highest on the List
the said House shall in like Manner
chuse the President.’’
Mr. PERRY. ‘‘But in chusing the
President, the Votes shall be taken by
States, the Representation from each
State having one Vote; A quorum for
this Purpose shall consist of a Member
or Members from two thirds of the
States, and a Majority of all the States
shall be necessary to a Choice. In every
Case, after the Choice of the President,
the Person having the greatest Number
of Votes of the Electors shall be the
Vice President. But if there should re-
main two or more who have equal
Votes, the Senate shall chuse from
them by Ballot the Vice President.
‘‘The Congress may determine the
Time of chusing the Electors, and the
Day on which they shall give their
Votes; which Day shall be the same
throughout the United States.
‘‘No Person except a natural born
Citizen, or a Citizen of the United
States, at the time of the Adoption of
this Constitution, shall be eligible to
the Office of President; neither shall
any Person be eligible to that Office
who shall not have attained to the Age
of thirty five Years, and been fourteen
Years a Resident within the United
States.
‘‘In Case of the Removal of the Presi-
dent from Office, or of his Death, Res-
ignation, or Inability to discharge the
Powers and Duties of the said Office,
the Same shall devolve on the Vice
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00164 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.073 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1165
January 23, 2019
President, and the Congress may by
Law provide for the Case of Removal,
Death, Resignation or Inability, both
of the President and Vice President,
declaring what Officer shall then act as
President, and such Officer shall act
accordingly, until the Disability be re-
moved, or a President shall be elect-
ed.’’
Mr. OLSON. ‘‘The President shall, at
stated Times, receive for his Services,
a Compensation, which shall neither be
encreased nor diminished during the
Period for which he shall have been
elected, and he shall receive within
that Period any other Emolument from
the United States, or any of them.
‘‘Before he enter on the Execution of
his Office, he shall take the following
Oath or Affirmation:—’I do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully
execute the Office of President of the
United States, and will to the best of
my Ability, preserve, protect and de-
fend the Constitution of the United
States.’’’
Section 2:
‘‘The President shall be Commander
in Chief of the Army and Navy of the
United States, and of the Militia of the
several States, when called into the ac-
tual Service of the United States; he
may require the Opinion, in writing, of
the principal Officer in each of the ex-
ecutive Departments, upon any Subject
relating to the Duties of their respec-
tive Offices, and he shall have Power to
grant Reprieves and Pardons for
Offences against the United States, ex-
cept in Cases of Impeachment.’’
Mr. BABIN. ‘‘He shall have Power, by
and with the Advice and Consent of the
Senate, to make Treaties, provided two
thirds of the Senators present concur;
and he shall nominate, and by and with
the Advice and Consent of the Senate,
shall appoint Ambassadors, other pub-
lic Ministers and Consuls, Judges of
the supreme Court, and all other Offi-
cers of the United States, whose Ap-
pointments are not herein otherwise
provided for, and which shall be estab-
lished by Law: but the Congress may
by Law vest the Appointment of such
inferior Officers, as they think proper,
in the President alone, in the Courts of
Law, or in the Heads of Departments.
‘‘The President shall have Power to
fill up all Vacancies that may happen
during the Recess of the Senate, by
granting Commissions which shall ex-
pire at the End of their next Session.’’
Section 3:
‘‘He shall from time to time give to
the Congress Information of the State
of the Union, and recommend to their
Consideration such Measures as he
shall judge necessary and expedient; he
may, on extraordinary Occasions, con-
vene both Houses, or either of them,
and in Case of Disagreement between
them, with Respect to the Time of Ad-
journment, he may adjourn them to
such Time as he shall think proper; he
shall receive Ambassadors and other
public Ministers; he shall take Care
that the Laws be faithfully executed,
and shall Commission all the Officers
of the United States.’’
Section 4:
‘‘The President, Vice President and
all civil Officers of the United States,
shall be removed from Office on Im-
peachment for, and Conviction of,
Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes
and Misdemeanors.’’
Mr. GRIFFITH. Article III, Section 1:
‘‘The judicial Power of the United
States, shall be vested in one supreme
Court, and in such inferior Courts as
the Congress may from time to time
ordain and establish. The Judges, both
of the supreme and inferior Courts,
shall hold their Offices during good Be-
haviour, and shall, at stated Times, re-
ceive for their Services, a Compensa-
tion, which shall not be diminished
during their Continuance in Office.’’
Section 2:
‘‘The judicial Power shall extend to
all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising
under this Constitution, the Laws of
the United States, and Treaties made,
or which shall be made, under their Au-
thority;—to all Cases affecting Ambas-
sadors, other public Ministers and Con-
suls;—to all Cases of admiralty and
maritime Jurisdiction;—to Controver-
sies to which the United States shall be
a Party;—to Controversies between two
or more States;—between a State and
Citizens of another State,—between
Citizens of different States,—between
Citizens of the same State claiming
Lands under Grants of different States,
and between a State, or the Citizens
thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or
Subjects.’’
b 1645
Mr. HICE of Georgia. ‘‘In all cases af-
fecting Ambassadors, other public Min-
isters and Consuls, and those in which
a State shall be Party, the supreme
Court shall have original Jurisdiction.
In all the other Cases before men-
tioned, the supreme Court shall have
appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law
and Fact, with such Exceptions, and
under such Regulations as the Congress
shall make.
‘‘The Trial of all Crimes, except in
Cases of Impeachment, shall be by
Jury; and such Trial shall be held in
the State where the said Crimes shall
have been committed; but when not
committed within any State, the Trial
shall be at such Place or Places as the
Congress may by Law have directed.’’
Section 3:
‘‘Treason against the United States,
shall consist only in levying War
against them, or in adhering to their
Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort.
No Person shall be convicted of Trea-
son unless on the Testimony of two
Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on
Confession in open court.
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to
declare the Punishment of Treason, but
no Attainder of Treason shall work
Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture ex-
cept during the Life of the Person
attainted.’’
Mr. GRIFFITH. Article IV, Section 1:
‘‘Full Faith and Credit shall be given
in each State to the public Acts,
Records, and judicial Proceedings of
every other State. And the Congress
may by general Laws prescribe the
Manner in which such Acts, Records
and Proceedings shall be proved, and
the Effect thereof.’’
Section 2:
‘‘The Citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all Privileges and Immuni-
ties of Citizens in the several States.
‘‘A Person charged in any State with
Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who
shall flee from Justice, and be found in
another State, shall on Demand of the
executive Authority of the State from
which he fled, be delivered up, to be re-
moved to the State having Jurisdiction
of the Crime.
‘‘No Person held to Service or Labor
in one State, under the laws thereof,
escaping into another, shall, in Con-
sequence of any Law or Regulation
therein, be discharged from such Serv-
ice or Labor, but shall be delivered up
on Claim of the Party to whom such
Service or Labor may be due.’’
Section 3:
‘‘New States may be admitted by the
Congress into this Union; but no new
State shall be formed or erected within
the Jurisdiction of any other State;
nor any State be formed by the Junc-
tion of two or more States, or Parts of
States, without the Consent of the Leg-
islatures of the States concerned as
well as of the Congress.’’
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. ‘‘The Congress
shall have power to dispose of and
make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other
Property belonging to the United
States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Preju-
dice any Claims of the United States,
or of any particular State.’’
Section 4:
‘‘The United States shall guarantee
to every State in this Union a Repub-
lican Form of Government, and shall
protect each of them against Invasion;
and on Application of the Legislature,
or of the Executive, when the Legisla-
ture cannot be convened, against do-
mestic Violence.’’
Article V:
‘‘The Congress, whenever two thirds
of both Houses shall deem it necessary,
shall propose Amendments to this Con-
stitution, or, on the Application of the
Legislatures of two thirds of the sev-
eral States, shall call a Convention for
proposing Amendments, which, in ei-
ther Case, shall be valid to all Intents
and Purposes, as Part of this Constitu-
tion, when ratified by the Legislatures
of three fourths of the several States,
or by Conventions in three fourths
thereof, as the one or the other Mode of
Ratification may be proposed by the
Congress; Provided that no Amend-
ment which may be made prior to the
Year One thousand eight hundred and
eight shall in any Manner affect the
first and fourth Clauses in the Ninth
Section of the first Article; and that no
State, without its Consent, shall be de-
prived of its equal Suffrage in the Sen-
ate.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00165 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.074 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1166 January 23, 2019
Article VI:
‘‘All Debts contracted and Engage-
ments entered into, before the Adop-
tion of this Constitution, shall be as
valid against the United States under
this Constitution, as under the Confed-
eration.
‘‘This Constitution, and the Laws of
the United States which shall be made
in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties
made, or which shall be made, under
the Authority of the United States,
shall be the supreme Law of the Land;
and the Judges in every State shall be
bound thereby, any Thing in the Con-
stitution or Laws of any State to the
Contrary notwithstanding.
‘‘The Senators and Representatives
before mentioned, and the Members of
the several State Legislatures, and all
executive and judicial Officers, both of
the United States and of the several
States, shall be bound by Oath or Affir-
mation, to support this Constitution;
but no religious Test shall ever be re-
quired as a Qualification to any Office
or public Trust under the United
States.’’
Article VII:
‘‘The Ratification of the Conventions
of nine States, shall be sufficient for
the Establishment of this Constitution
between the States so ratifying the
Same.’’
Mr. Speaker, this historic reading of
the U.S. Constitution on the floor of
the House tonight, together with the
Bill of Rights and all the amendments
ratified as described in the original
document, make the supreme law of
the land. They are the law that we look
to every day to guide the work of this
House of Representatives. And I will
remind my friends that 50 percent of
the words in this historic document are
governed and written in regard to Arti-
cle I, the first branch, the Congress of
the United States, the legislative
branch.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
leagues tonight who have joined us on
the floor in reading the U.S. Constitu-
tion: VIRGINIA FOXX, TOM EMMER, WAR-
REN DAVIDSON, MIKE BOST, TED YOHO,
MIKE CONAWAY, ROGER WILLIAMS, TIM
WALBERG, JODY HICE, RICK ALLEN,
PETER OLSON, BUDDY CARTER, MORGAN
GRIFFITH, ANDY BARR, BRIAN BABIN,
and SCOTT PERRY. I am grateful for
their participation in reading this his-
toric document.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
BORDER SECURITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. GRIF-
FITH) for 30 minutes.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I come
to the floor tonight to discuss a trip
that was recently made to our southern
border in Arizona with the sovereign
state of Mexico. Mr. BIGGS headed that
party up, and at this time, Mr. Speak-
er, I yield to the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. BIGGS).
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, it is a
pleasure to be here and to speak and
report to the American people about
what we saw and learned on the Ari-
zona-Mexico border over the weekend.
We spent Sunday and Monday put-
ting a lot of miles on cars, traveling
within 30 miles of the border all the
way from the New Mexico line through
about two-thirds of the State of Ari-
zona. It becomes kind of interesting be-
cause, quite frankly, there are so many
people who do not appreciate the
breadth and the wide open space of
that country.
Let me just take a few minutes and
tell you that we had nine Members of
Congress there. We met with Border
Patrol agents, Customs agents, Border
Patrol management. We met with
ranchers, residents along the border.
We met with numerous people, all who
have an interest in the immediate im-
pacts of illegal border crossings.
One ranch that we happened to visit
in Arizona, right on the border, you
could look out and you could see the
vastness of what our Border Patrol
agents are dealing with. You could lit-
erally see many miles into Mexico. The
Sierra Madres are coming down from
their height, leveling down, and then
you have two other additional moun-
tain ranges that come on the Arizona
side, right through it, kind of tapering
into the Chiracahua Mountains, beau-
tiful mountains.
You can see the vastness of this open
space, and it is many hundreds of
miles, and even thousands of miles
square. We have two or three Border
Patrol agents there and no fence, real-
ly, to speak of.
So we talked with some of the ranch-
ers who live along there and their expe-
rience. We walked through some of the
hills and on the paths that illegal
aliens and drug traffickers pass
through and walk. We talked with
some of them.
One gentleman explained to us that
he has had four home invasions—four
home invasions—more than 15 bur-
glaries, and, every day, trespassers on
his property.
Imagine that as your lifestyle, know-
ing that you will have home invasions,
knowing that you are going to have
people trespassing on your property
consistently.
We moved over to the wall in Doug-
las, Arizona. It sits on the border with
Agua Prieta. We took pictures. We
talked with Border Patrol agents. And
then we could see where that border
wall, how long that goes.
It is bollard fencing, which is slatted
steel fencing that goes anywhere from
10 to 15, 18 feet high. But it was so inef-
fective in some places that they have
started putting concertina razor wire
to keep people down.
In a minute, I will tell you how that
doesn’t really work.
And then they put up a third or sec-
ond barrier there in some parts of
Douglas, but not enough money. It just
kind of runs out. And you can see how
far that border wall goes in Douglas,
and it is the bollard fencing.
We then kept moving in Cochise
County in Arizona, and we ended up, we
were able to talk to some local law en-
forcement and some of the Angel Par-
ents.
But I want to talk about something
that I thought was most intriguing and
interesting. As we were sitting there in
that restaurant with some of our staff,
our Members of Congress, some local
law enforcement, some of the Angel
Families, we had a resident just come
up out of the blue, and she thanked the
local law enforcement for the efforts
being made to protect the citizens of
that county.
b 1700
She said: You know, I have had a
home invasion. I have had repeated
burglaries. I have had trespassing on
my property, on my ranch. We get peo-
ple come in, they turn on water, they
want a drink of water, and they just let
the water run. They never turn it off.
They trash my property.
She was telling me this. I asked her
to address our group. She did. Im-
promptu, she told of her experience,
out of the blue. She didn’t know who
we were. I thought that was remark-
able. It was completely unstaged.
We had the Angel Parents, Mary Ann
Mendoza talk about her son, Brandon,
who was a Mesa police officer. Brandon
was killed by a driver who had pre-
viously been arrested and deported. He
was driving along the wrong way on
the freeway and runs into Brandon and
kills him.
Steve Ronnebeck spoke. Steve had a
son, Grant, early twenties, very out-
going, gregarious young man, working
at the QT, which is a convenience
store. One night, Mr. Altamirano, who
had been convicted and deported pre-
viously—in fact, he was convicted for
burglary. That was a plea deal down
from the two counts of kidnapping and
rape of a woman who was victimized by
Mr. Altamirano.
He had been deported. He comes
back, goes in to buy a pack of ciga-
rettes. Grant is counting out the
change. Mr. Altamirano does not like
how slow it seems to be taking, pulls a
gun out, and pointblank shoots him in
the face, killing Grant Ronnebeck.
What a tragedy that is.
So they are not alone. I have talked
with Angel Families from throughout
the country. You say: Well, okay. You
are in a border State. That might hap-
pen in a border State. This goes
throughout the country. These types of
tragedies have happened throughout
the country.
It is unfortunate and it is sad, but it
is preventable in large measure.
We got a briefing at a Border Patrol
station in southern Arizona. They are
not too far below their full com-
plement. They are about 80, maybe 75
percent of their full complement of
agents. This is a big area, though, and
they run three shifts. By the time you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00166 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.076 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1167
January 23, 2019
take care of time off, vacation days,
sick days, by the time you take every-
thing into account, you have seven
people watching and monitoring the
cameras that do not cover even all of
the area for which this station is re-
sponsible.
You have seven Border Patrol agents
trying to interdict, literally, over hun-
dreds of miles, hundreds of miles large-
ly fenced with a four-strand barbed
wire fence. It isn’t like you have even
have T poles as your fencing poles or
even a more rigid pole. It is basically
branches of trees. That is what you
have along that particular section of
the border. It doesn’t take much to get
across.
So we went to Sasabe, which is a
very small port of entry, and they have
11⁄2 miles of bollard fencing either side
of that. Then this is something that is
really hard to explain, but they have,
again, the four-strand barbed wire
fence that rolls on out until, I know,
where it goes into single-strand barbed
wire fencing. I have been there, I have
seen it. But on this trip, we just
watched the four-strand barbed wire
fence.
When you get there, how does it tie
in to the bollard fencing: with a piece
of rope that is tied to a slipknot.
And you think fences don’t work? Of
course they work. The bollard fence
works. You can stand there right at the
end of the bollard fence and look out
into Mexico, and the several paths that
you see moving north toward their bor-
der all come up to where that rope and
that slipknot that is holding the four-
strand barbed wire fence comes into
the bollard fence, and they all come
right to there.
Why? Because you lift up the rope,
pull it down. You can actually put it
back on and then continue on up the
hill.
But there is a convenience store in
that little town near that Border Pa-
trol stocked with MREs. And guess who
needs MREs: cartel scouts who are in
the hills and mountains of southern
Arizona and near that little town.
They sell bullets, not in the box.
When I have ever bought bullets, am-
munition for my guns, they are in lit-
tle boxes—not here. You can get them
in little baggies, you know, little plas-
tic bags you buy to put your sandwich
in. This is what you have.
So is it any wonder that in the Tuc-
son sector, 40 percent of the drugs that
have been seized in the last couple
years are in that sector?
You have a drug problem. We have
tens of thousands of people killed each
year because of opioid abuse. The vast
majority of that is coming across the
southern border. And of that that is
interdicted, you have a significant plu-
rality that is coming right through
that Tucson sector.
So we then had a chance to meet
with some Border Patrol agents, talk
to them about what is going on. It was
marvelous. They gave us some ideas.
I want to talk a little bit about
something that we really don’t focus
on.
Mr. Speaker, I am going to save that,
though, because I see the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GOSAR).
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman said,
we had a tour this weekend in which
eight other Members plus Andy and I
had actually gone on this 2-day border
tour.
We spoke with the Border Patrol
agents, ranchers, and law enforcement
officials; and during our tour, we
heard, firsthand, the destruction and
the dangers that came with open bor-
ders and loopholes in our immigration
laws.
Ranchers told their stories about the
day-to-day reality of illegal aliens
using their land as drug and human
trafficking routes. They walked us
through how these criminal organiza-
tions used their open borders and their
land to make billions.
Now, let’s look at the statistics.
In 2017, more than 49,000 Americans
died from heroin and opioid-related
overdoses. And we are just starting to
see the intrusion of the synthetic
fentanyl for which you don’t get second
chances. It is so toxic, that even a dose
as small as a grain of salt given to
somebody can kill them.
Ninety percent of the heroin in our
country comes from the southern bor-
der. This weekend, I stood on the soil
that thousands of illegal aliens walk to
smuggle these deadly drugs into our
country.
We also spoke with Border Patrol,
who shared their stories detailing
changes that have occurred, particu-
larly in the last 10 years. They noted
that one of the biggest changes they
are seeing is the shift in the illegal
aliens’ attitude. Instead of fleeing,
they are fighting. Illegal aliens have
become emboldened by the advocation
of open borders the Democrats have
promoted.
Now, over the last 5 years, we have
seen a 2,000 percent increase in the asy-
lum claims. We have seen a 50 percent
rise in family units coming to our
southern border. Ninety-eight percent
of those family units will stay in our
country.
Think about this. They will be
turned in to our country; they will
never come back to a court order, stay-
ing in our country. So it is very impor-
tant to hear that 98 percent of these
family units will stay in our country.
This isn’t just lawmakers in Wash-
ington saying they have a crisis at our
southern border; this is people who live
the reality of this every day. These are
the ranchers and individuals whose
livelihood has been taken from them
because open border advocates have
chosen to protect illegal aliens instead
of the citizens they represent.
Republicans have taken action and
provided a solution; Democrats have
not.
Ignoring this crisis diminishes the
Americans and migrants who have fall-
en victims to the crimes committed by
illegal aliens or are harmed because of
illegal drugs flowing across the border.
Our job is to protect our own citi-
zens, our country. The President’s pro-
posal echos the very need Border Pa-
trol agents tell us firsthand they need:
We need a wall, and we need it now.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his comments.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS) for a ques-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, in listening to the gen-
tleman’s remarks, of course I was there
and saw this rope as well, but I think
the folks back home need to be aware
of this rope. We are not talking about
some massive rope. We are talking
about—what?—an inch, half-inch, quar-
ter-inch rope?
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker and the gen-
tleman, I would tell you, it looked to
me like it was about a quarter-inch
rope. It was not much more than what
you would call about a clothesline
width, but it was about a quarter to a
half inch.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, in fact,
was it not accurate that you could ac-
tually roll back part of the barbed wire
fence once you took the rope off and
you could have multiple people coming
through at any given moment?
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, that is cor-
rect.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, the rea-
son that illegal immigrants or drug
cartels would like it that way is that
they can roll that back and, wearing
their carpeted shoes which prevent
tracking, they can then come in there,
put it back, and that way the border
agents who are working that area
won’t have any idea that somebody has
actually come through there because
they can’t really tell. There is a well-
worn track, but you won’t know when
somebody has come through.
Mr. Speaker, I ask the gentleman if
that is his impression as well.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, yes, that
was my impression. You also can’t tell
how many people are coming through.
It may be one or two. It may be 20 or
40.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, in fact,
there, they had a road as well, which
our border agents told us was very
helpful. When you have a wall, you
have a road next to it to help catch
those folks who are trying to come
through. But they had a device up,
also, made of heavy metal and concrete
to prevent the drug traffickers from
using vehicles at that point and bring-
ing their stuff in and just loading it
onto a vehicle.
Mr. Speaker, I ask the gentleman if
that isn’t correct.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, that is ex-
actly right. In fact, that road kind of
ended where the bollard fence ended.
And then you had the Normandy fence
that was sitting there, but then right
next to it, you had that track for peo-
ple to come walking through that
barbed wire fence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00167 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.078 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1168 January 23, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, con-
tinuing in this colloquy with my friend
from Arizona, I ask if he would agree
that when we heard from the border
agents that the wall—this bollard fenc-
ing, wall, however you want to describe
it—is important, but things like having
roads where you can get in are also im-
portant, because we heard numerous
stories.
I would like for the gentleman to
maybe tell one, about how the agents
may be able to see through electronic
devices that somebody has crossed the
border, but then it may take them
hours to get there. I remember several
specific stories, but I just wondered if
Mr. BIGGS remembered any stories like
that.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, yes. I would
tell the gentleman that when I talked
about, literally, nearly 1,000 or more
square miles that seven agents are cov-
ering, if the camera is there, they have
seen these people. By the time they get
there—it takes 2, 21⁄2 hours because it
is rugged terrain—nobody is there any-
more; because the sensors, the cameras
are there, and nobody is there any-
more, and they are moving on. That is
because they are trying to get to their
destination, which may be Tucson, it
may be Phoenix, and from there, all
points throughout the country for
these drugs to be distributed.
But, yes, indeed, this happens over
and over and over on a daily basis.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I would
say that we heard this repeatedly, and
what we heard is that we need the wall
to help channel this flow of illegal im-
migrants. We need the wall to make
sure that we have some idea of what is
going on. We need the electronic sur-
veillance.
So this is not a one-size-fits-all kind
of situation, but we need the electronic
surveillance to help when we are moni-
toring the wall. We need additional
folks on horseback. We need additional
canine units.
We heard from one agent that we
need, at the Customs department, den-
sity equipment so they can test to see
if a tire is supposed to be a certain den-
sity. If it is twice as dense as it is sup-
posed to be, they know that something
is being hidden in that tire, some con-
traband, most likely drugs, and so this
is important.
b 1715
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS) for additional
questions. I would like to continue our
colloquy. I don’t know if his colleague,
also from Arizona, Mr. GOSAR, would
like to join in that colloquy as well.
I would say to the gentleman, Mr.
BIGGS of Arizona, did he also find it in-
teresting that almost everybody who
we talked to, and certainly all of the
border guards and all of the ranchers
right on the border, specifically said a
wall would be helpful; but there were
other things that needed to be done as
well?
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, yes. It was
one of the Angel Moms, Mary Ann
Mendoza, who said it well. She said: A
wall won’t stop everyone, but no wall
will stop no one. They wanted a wall.
There was not one person that I met,
and that we met, that didn’t advocate
for a wall. But they also understood
that you need to have the infrastruc-
ture, that is to say, roads. You need to
have cameras and sensors. You need to
actually have more boots on the
ground: better vehicles that can get
there, and, where necessary, horses.
Don’t forget that they were using
dogs, for instance, to sniff out cur-
rency. We have a shortage of dogs at
the ports of entry and in the interior
between the ports of entry.
They need lighter weight. We talked
to one agent who said that when he is
out there wearing his full bulletproof
vest and the whole harness, if it is 110
degrees ambient temperature—which,
by the way, most of our summer is
going to be well above 100—he said that
quickly rises and you are at 145 to 160
degrees as a Border Patrol agent.
So, yes, we need a lot. But the one
thing that is foundational to all of
this, to try to get the border under con-
trol, is fencing.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GOSAR). Would the gentleman tell me
some of the stories related to fencing
or additional equipment and how those
fences will channel people; where it
makes it easier to keep track of who is
crossing that border? Did he have any
stories that he might like to speak of?
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, oh, abso-
lutely.
The ranchers told us over and over
again. One of the ranchers was working
on one of his backhoes on his property.
He turned to look and a well-armed il-
legal is sitting there with an automatic
weapon. Over and over again we see
this, time and time again.
We have the Border Patrol telling us,
over and over again, that what they see
is they will see a mass of
undocumenteds that are family units
or undocumented children. They have
to take their resources and attach
them to those people, allowing the
drug cartels to swiftly move in another
point of reference.
It is big country, as the gentleman
from Virginia got to see. There is lots
of space, that goes north and south
that have the advantages of cover. In
fact, if I am not mistaken, the gen-
tleman can actually tell the story of
our last stop in Nogales and what hap-
pened right in front of us over the bor-
der.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, re-
claiming my time, I will tell that
story, because what happened is very
interesting.
The Border Patrol was there and an
individual did cross the fence. Some-
times people say: Well, the people can
climb over the fence. They can, but it
slows them down and allows the border
agents, using cameras and being there
live on the scene, to intercept those
people.
And, sure enough, there we are,
standing—I think we kind of acted as
blockers. This fellow comes over the
fence and drops down. The border
agents are moving fast, and there we
are standing where the natural escape
route would be. While we didn’t do any-
thing heroic, and we had to watch the
border security agents do their job
very professionally, they got the gen-
tleman into custody fairly quickly, it
was because there was a wall, agents,
and a whole team of equipment work-
ing together: the cameras, the wall,
and the agents working together.
If you don’t have a wall there, they
are never seeing that guy; they are
never catching that guy, because he
had to rise up and be seen in order to
cross the border wall/fence.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. BUDD).
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend for yielding, and I also thank my
friend from Arizona for inviting us to
his home State to meet with several
Members from Arizona. What an eye-
opener. This is something that I have
supported—the building of the wall, in-
creasing our border security—standing
strong with the President for that. But
to see it in person was quite an eye-
opener, and I really want to thank my
friend for doing that.
After spending several days in Ari-
zona, with Customs and Border Patrol,
touring areas of this southern border, I
can say with more assurance than ever
that we are in desperate need of a wall.
In certain areas, all that separates us
from another sovereign nation is a
barbed wire fence. Living on a cattle
farm in North Carolina, if a fence on
our farm was in the same condition as
that, we would be spending all night to
replace it because we would be losing
cows left and right. Our ranchers down
there in Arizona are losing their cows
into Mexico. The cows from the
ranches in Mexico are coming down.
You don’t realize—we don’t think
about it much—but there are ranchers
on the Mexican side that actually want
a wall. They say: Please, build the
wall. We don’t think about hearing it
that much, but we do because they
don’t want the cartels coming into
their ranch and cutting their fences.
There are a lot of problems.
While I was there, over and over, I
heard, again and again, about the need
to have a wall to shrink the amount of
mileage that our Border Patrol agents
need to cover.
When technology detects an illegal,
it takes them about 2 hours by car to
get there, give or take, and then about
2 hours on foot, and then from there it
is a completely different game. A wall
will act as a complement to our brave
border agents, and it limits the amount
of terrain, which is vast—it will limit
the amount that they have to cover.
The situation facing the ranchers is
bleak, as I mentioned before. I spoke to
one woman, whose brother was killed
by an illegal alien during a home inva-
sion. We hear all the time about home
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00168 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.079 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1169
January 23, 2019
invasions. Many of these Angel Fami-
lies have been left with lost loved ones.
Other families have had property dam-
age or stolen vehicles. A simple F–150
pickup truck, that we would normally
just park and take our keys with us,
they have got chains wrapped around
the whole vehicle to keep it from being
stolen by the illegals.
We spoke with two other Angel Fam-
ilies, and their stories are heart-
breaking and, unfortunately, not
anomalies. Throughout the trip, we
heard over and over again how the drug
cartels will use illegal immigrants as
decoys in order to overwhelm Customs
and Border Patrol agents at the check-
point, leaving the border unmanned so
that they can move their drugs across.
Each immigrant, who is caught try-
ing to illegally enter our country,
takes about 2 to 4 hours to process. The
cartels have done the math. They have
sent waves and waves of people to tie
up our Border Patrol so that they can,
in essence, send their cartel and drug
mules across in another area.
This weekend, President Trump put
forth a plan that would reopen the gov-
ernment, but the plan was rejected by
Democrats before it was even released.
I call on my Democratic colleagues to
come to the table and negotiate in
good faith. In the past, Democrats have
been more than open to securing our
borders: in some cases, voting for $50
billion and $40 billion, respectively.
The $5 billion that Trump is asking for
pales in comparison.
Before us is a national security cri-
sis, a drug crisis, and a humanitarian
crisis. A wall will help in a much
broader effort to get operational con-
trol of our border and keep our country
safe.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
BABIN).
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from Arizona for this Special
Order and for the opportunity to speak.
Mr. Speaker, last weekend, a handful
of colleagues and I toured the southern
border between Arizona and Mexico,
meeting with Border Patrol agents,
ranchers, law enforcement, and Angel
Families, who have lost loved ones to
illegals. Mr. Speaker, I can say, more
confidently than ever, that we need
stronger border security. This is not—
I repeat, not—a manufactured crisis on
the border, as we are hearing the oppo-
site side of the aisle say.
This crisis at the border is getting
worse, but the solution is the same: we
must secure our borders in order to re-
gain control of our broken immigration
system. The brave men and women who
put their lives on the line every day to
protect our country are doing so with-
out the full support of the Federal Gov-
ernment, and that is unacceptable and
tragic. It certainly is not a manufac-
tured crisis.
We need to build a border wall, con-
struct roads and infrastructure, im-
prove our technological resources, and
restore pay to Border Patrol agents
that was stripped out under the Obama
administration. I hear our Democratic
opponents say across the aisle that
walls are immoral and ineffective. A
wall is not immoral. It is absolutely
necessary. Certainly, a wall will not
prevent all illegals from coming over,
but no wall keeps no one out.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle to put their
money where their mouth is and actu-
ally go and visit our southern border.
This is what our opponents say
across the aisle is border security. We
saw it. We were there. I want the
American people to see this, and my
constituents to see this. Our Democrat
colleagues need to go down to the bor-
der and see this.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his remarks.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS) for the con-
clusion on this great trip.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate
everyone who went to the border with
us. We will be doing it again. I will in-
vite my Democratic colleagues to come
with us as well. It is eye-opening.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
CELEBRATING BOONE DRUG’S
100TH ANNIVERSARY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
FOXX) for 30 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to congratulate Boone
Drug in Boone, North Carolina, on cele-
brating the 100th anniversary of the
founding of its original store, opened in
North Carolina’s Fifth District by Dr.
George Kelly Moose. With this lon-
gevity of service in the community,
Boone Drug can truly claim to be a
neighborhood institution. In January
1919, when it opened, it was one of only
two drugstores in Boone, and it has
thrived in the midst of the changes of
the pharmaceutical industry through
the last century.
For 50 years, customers went to see
Dr. Moose, walking from miles away to
buy their medicine at Boone Drug. The
upstairs of the building was occupied
by a group of doctors and a dentist,
which kept constant traffic moving in
and out of the store. Dr. Moose even
kept his drugstore open until each doc-
tor had seen his last patient, often late
into the night.
In 1947, two brothers, Dr. Odell
Kelly—‘‘O.K.’’ for Odell Kelly—and Dr.
Wayne Richardson, joined Dr. Moose at
the pharmacy. The space was expanded
for a soda fountain and grill, where
many locals socialized, and the town’s
movers and shakers talked politics.
Joe Miller was next to join the Boone
Drug ownership. Having worked at the
fountain in high school, the Richardson
brothers convinced him to go to phar-
macy school and eventually made him
a fourth owner.
Dr. Miller was joined by Dr. John
Stacy and Dr. Jim Furman. They have
kept alive the legacy of customer serv-
ice, philanthropy, and business expan-
sion of their predecessors. The Boone
Drug pharmacists often volunteered
their services, staying open until 9
p.m.; so that physicians could work
long hours and patients could fill their
prescriptions after a late-night doctor’s
visit. The store’s philosophy was that
anyone who came in with a prescrip-
tion left with medicine, even if one
didn’t have the means to cover the en-
tire prescription’s cost right away.
In the mid-1980s, Dr. Miller broad-
ened the store’s horizons, selling art
supplies. The popular art supply store,
named Cheap Joe’s Art Stuff, began in
the upstairs of the drugstore. At first,
art supplies were placed on shelves be-
tween over-the-counter medicines
downstairs. Eventually, what started
as Dr. Miller’s hobby outgrew the drug-
store and Cheap Joe’s Art Stuff moved
into its own location, serving cus-
tomers worldwide.
b 1730
Although the drugstore’s fountain
and grill closed in 2011, the owners
have filled its former space with a non-
profit community kitchen that feeds
the hungry.
Today, there are 17 Boone Drug loca-
tions in North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, and Tennessee. The pharmacists
in these pharmacies serve as direct
contacts for medical information with-
out an appointment or the expense of a
doctor’s visit.
Boone Drug provides a shining exam-
ple of the important role that phar-
macies play in supporting healthy com-
munities. They provide immunizations,
durable medical equipment, coun-
seling, and expertise in healthcare.
I have been a patron of Boone Drug
since moving to Boone as a student at
Appalachian State University and al-
ways enjoy my visits to the store. I
continue to love all the wonderful em-
ployees and am privileged to represent
this small business and local phar-
macy. It treats clients like family,
which is the hallmark of a small town
drugstore that lasts a century, and I
wish Boone Drug another 100 years of
success.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. KIND (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today until 3 p.m. on ac-
count of travel delays due to weather.
f
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House,
reported and found truly enrolled bills
of the House of the following titles,
which were thereupon signed by the
Speaker:
H.R. 259. An act to extend the Medicaid
Money Follows the Person Rebalancing dem-
onstration, to extend protection for Medicaid
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00169 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JA7.082 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1170 January 23, 2019
recipients of home and community-based
services against spousal impoverishment,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 430. An act to extend the program of
block grants to States for temporary assist-
ance for needy families and related programs
through June 30, 2019.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I move that the House do now
adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 5 o’clock and 31 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, January 24, 2019, at 9 a.m.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. CORREA (for himself and Mr.
HIGGINS of Louisiana):
H.R. 712. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a clinical trial
of the effects of cannabis on certain health
outcomes of adults with chronic pain and
post-traumatic stress disorder, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire):
H.R. 713. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for the eligibility for
beneficiary travel for veterans seeking treat-
ment or care for military sexual trauma in
specialized outpatient or residential pro-
grams at facilities of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for him-
self, Mr. POSEY, Mr. BRADY, Mr. KING
of Iowa, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. JONES, Mr.
BOST, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. GOH-
MERT, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
DUNCAN, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. BYRNE,
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, and Mr.
BIGGS):
H.R. 714. A bill to reserve any amounts for-
feited to the United States Government as a
result of the criminal prosecution of Joaquin
Archivaldo Guzman Loera (commonly known
as ‘‘El Chapo’’), or of other felony convic-
tions involving the transportation of con-
trolled substances into the United States, for
security measures along the Southern bor-
der, including the completion of a border
wall; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mrs.
BEATTY):
H.R. 715. A bill to amend section 428 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act to
provide incentives to grantees under the
Continuum of Care program to re-house all
former members of the Armed Forces, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Mr. TED LIEU of California, and
Mr. TURNER):
H.R. 716. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to enter into partnerships
with public and private entities to provide
legal services to homeless veterans and vet-
erans at risk of homelessness; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Ms. ADAMS, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. EVANS, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES,
Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. LANGEVIN,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. MAST, Ms. MATSUI,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. OMAR, Ms. PINGREE, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr.
VEASEY, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
YARMUTH, and Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 717. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a Federal firearms
licensee from selling or delivering certain
semiautomatic centerfire rifles to a person
under 21 years of age, with exceptions for ac-
tive duty military personnel and full-time
law enforcement officers, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 718. A bill to designate the Federal
building located at 158-15 Liberty Avenue in
Jamaica, Queens, New York, as the ‘‘Floyd
H. Flake Federal Building’’; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. CLAY,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. MEEKS,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. OMAR, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. UNDER-
WOOD, Mr. VEASEY, and Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN):
H.R. 719. A bill to require certain semi-
automatic pistols manufactured, imported,
or sold by Federal firearms licensees to be
capable of microstamping ammunition, and
to prohibit the removal, obliteration, or al-
teration of the microstamped code or micro-
stamping capability of a firearm; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. TRONE, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. BEYER, Mrs. TRAHAN,
and Ms. WEXTON):
H.R. 720. A bill to deem Federal employees
excepted from furlough during a Government
shutdown in fiscal year 2019 to be eligible for
unemployment compensation, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. CRIST (for himself, Mr. GRAVES
of Louisiana, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, and
Mr. JONES):
H.R. 721. A bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to convene an interagency working
group to study the enforcement of section
227(b) of the Communications Act of 1934; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CURTIS (for himself, Mr.
BISHOP of Utah, Mr. STEWART, and
Mr. MCADAMS):
H.R. 722. A bill to designate a mountain in
the State of Utah as ‘‘Miracle Mountain’’; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio (for him-
self, Mr. AMASH, Mr. BARR, Mr. BUCK,
Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. WALKER, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
JOHNSON of Louisiana, and Mr.
BANKS):
H.R. 723. A bill to provide for congressional
review of the imposition of duties and other
trade measures by the executive branch, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Rules, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. NADLER, Mr. AGUILAR,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. BEYER, Mr. CHABOT,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. CRIST, Mr. CALVERT, Mr.
BUDD, Ms. DELAURO, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. FOSTER,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. JONES, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
MAST, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. MEADOWS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. MOULTON, Ms.
MENG, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. KEATING,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
SCHRADER, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Ms. BASS, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MEEKS,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. JOHN
W. ROSE of Tennessee, Ms. SHALALA,
Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. KILMER, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. CORREA, Ms. GABBARD,
Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. BUCK, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. TURNER, Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, Mr. YOHO, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Mr. POSEY, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
PASCRELL, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. UPTON,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. KATKO, Mr.
COLE, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. TITUS, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. BERA, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Il-
linois, Mr. PERRY, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr.
NEAL, Ms. SPEIER, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. WITTMAN, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. WIL-
LIAMS, Mr. COHEN, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. HECK, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. VELA, Mrs. BUSTOS,
Mr. KILDEE, Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00170 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.022 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1171
January 23, 2019
MALONEY of New York, Mr. SCHNEI-
DER, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Ms.
PLASKETT):
H.R. 724. A bill to revise section 48 of title
18, United States Code, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr.
UPTON):
H.R. 725. A bill to amend chapter 85 of title
5, United States Code, to clarify that Federal
employees excepted from a furlough are eli-
gible for unemployment compensation, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY (for himself,
Mr. HUFFMAN, and Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER):
H.R. 726. A bill to amend the National
Trails System Act to include national dis-
covery trails and to designate the American
Discovery Trail, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. PINGREE, and Mr. RYAN):
H.R. 727. A bill to end the use of corporal
punishment in schools, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio (for himself, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Mr. MCKINLEY,
and Ms. UNDERWOOD):
H.R. 728. A bill to amend title VIII of the
Public Health Service Act to extend ad-
vanced education nursing grants to support
clinical nurse specialist programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. COLE, Mr.
HECK, Mr. COOK, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
DELBENE, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. MOORE, Mr. LUJÁN, and
Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 729. A bill to amend the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 to authorize grants
to Indian Tribes to further achievement of
Tribal coastal zone objectives, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
DEUTCH, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. ZELDIN,
Mr. JONES, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. WALKER, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mrs. BROOKS of
Indiana, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. HIMES, Mr. HICE
of Georgia, Mr. COHEN, Ms. MATSUI,
and Mr. HECK):
H.R. 730. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to include the cost of applying
to an institution of higher learning as part
of the benefits provided under the Post-9/11
Educational Assistance Program; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MALINOWSKI (for himself, Mr.
NORCROSS, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. KIM,
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
PAYNE, and Ms. SHERRILL):
H.R. 731. A bill to modify the treatment of
certain loans in consideration for fixed
guideway capital investment grants, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Mr. SERRANO,
Ms. MENG, Mr. SOTO, Mr. CLAY, Ms.
TLAIB, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. WILD,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. VELA, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. COOPER, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mr. PASCRELL, and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California):
H.R. 732. A bill to amend title 13, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of
Commerce to provide advance notice to Con-
gress before changing any questions on the
decennial census, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. MCCOLLUM:
H.R. 733. A bill to provide for the transfer
of certain Federal land in the State of Min-
nesota for the benefit of the Leech Lake
Band of Ojibwe; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself and Mr.
SARBANES):
H.R. 734. A bill to amend the National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require
States to accept applications to register to
vote in elections for Federal office in the
State from individuals under 18 years of age
at the time of application; to the Committee
on House Administration.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 735. A bill to amend the District of Co-
lumbia Home Rule Act to eliminate Congres-
sional review of newly-passed District laws;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on Rules,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms.
FOXX of North Carolina, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. COOPER,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. WALKER,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, and Mr.
LOUDERMILK):
H.R. 736. A bill to require the Director of
the Government Publishing Office to estab-
lish and maintain an online portal accessible
to the public that allows the public to obtain
electronic copies of all congressionally man-
dated reports in one place, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committee on
House Administration, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SABLAN (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. CALVERT, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. CRIST,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. HILL
of California, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. KEATING, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. KINZINGER, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
MITCHELL, Ms. NORTON, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RYAN, Mr. SCHWEIKERT,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. TITUS, Mr. THOMPSON
of California, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. VELA, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. GOMEZ, and Mr. WEBER of
Texas):
H.R. 737. A bill to prohibit the sale of shark
fins, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 738. A bill to protect private property
rights; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MCCARTHY (for himself, Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. BABIN, and Mrs. MIL-
LER):
H. Con. Res. 6. Concurrent resolution pro-
viding for a joint session of Congress to re-
ceive a message from the President; to the
Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H. Res. 67. A resolution electing Members
to certain standing committees of the House
of Representatives; considered and agreed to.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H. Res. 68. A resolution electing Members
to certain standing committees of the House
of Representatives; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. KILDEE, and Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER):
H. Res. 69. A resolution recognizing the
300th anniversary of the founding of the
Principality of Liechtenstein, and expressing
support for efforts by the United States to
continue to strengthen its relationship with
that country; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD):
H. Res. 70. A resolution recognizing the
roles and the contributions of America’s Cer-
tified Registered Nurse Anesthetists
(CRNAs) and their role in providing quality
health care for the public; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Ms. ADAMS,
Mr. ALLRED, Mrs. AXNE, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. BEYER, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS,
Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. COOPER, Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mrs. MURPHY, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Ms. OMAR,
Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr.
RICHMOND, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
RUSH, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Ms. SHALALA, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. SUOZZI, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. TONKO, and Ms.
WILSON of Florida):
H. Res. 71. A resolution observing Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr., Day; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. BUDD,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. JOR-
DAN, and Mr. HICE of Georgia):
H. Res. 72. A resolution rejecting anti-
Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United
States and around the world; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00171 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23JA7.100 H23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1172 January 23, 2019
By Mr. CORREA:
H.R. 712.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) The U.S. Constitution including Article
1, Section 8.
By Mrs. WALORSKI:
H.R. 713.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
H.R. 714.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 18 section 8 of arti-
cle 1 the Constitution (Necessary and Proper
Clause), which states ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers
. . .’’
In addition, clause 3 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution of the United States
(the Commerce Clause) gives Congress the
authority ‘‘to regulate commerce . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the Spending Power)
provides: ‘‘The Congress shall have the
Power . . . to pay the Debts and provide for
the common Defense and general Welfare of
the United States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power to
enact this legislation.
By Mr. STIVERS:
H.R. 715.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 716.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 717.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Commerce Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8, Cl. 3)
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 718.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 of the Constitution, necessary
and Proper Clause.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 719.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Commerce Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8, Cl. 3)
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 720.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. CRIST:
H.R. 721.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 722.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio:
H.R. 723.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, du-
ties, imposts and excises
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3: To regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes;
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 724.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3, known as the
Commerce Clause, provides Congress with
the authority regulate interstate and foreign
commerce.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 725.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 726.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority for this bill is
pursuant to Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 727.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio:
H.R. 728.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution.
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 729.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 730.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. MALINOWSKI:
H.R. 731.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 732.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
Congress shall have the power . . . to make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the Foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof . . .
By Ms. MCCOLLUM:
H.R. 733.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 734.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 735.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 17 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 736.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. SABLAN:
H.R. 737.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 738.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 1: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 20: Mr. COMER, Mr. CARTER of Georgia,
Mr. MEUSER, Mr. ROY, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of
Illinois, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, and Mr.
HAGEDORN.
H.R. 26: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 32: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 51: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 92: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 94: Ms. HILL of California and Ms.
LOFGREN.
H.R. 114: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 117: Mr. POCAN, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
and Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 129: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 141: Mr. CALVERT and Mr. CART-
WRIGHT.
H.R. 155: Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, and Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 163: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 166: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
OMAR, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 216: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 220: Mr. VELA and Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 223: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 230: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 262: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 273: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. TITUS, Mr. SIRES, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. SCHIFF, and Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 276: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 281: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 294: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. PHIL-
LIPS, Mr. WELCH, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 295: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 299: Mrs. TORRES of California, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. KIND, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. BERGMAN,
Mr. BACON, Mr. TURNER, Mrs. LEE of Nevada,
Mr. MAST, and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 301: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 303: Mr. SARBANES and Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY.
H.R. 305: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 339: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 344: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 350: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 367: Mr. WALTZ, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. RUSH, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Mr. DUNN, Mr. STEIL, Mr. ROGERS
of Kentucky, Mr. LATTA, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
CROW, Mr. ROUZER, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
SPEIER, Ms. WILSON of Florida, and Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia.
H.R. 371: Mr. GROTHMAN and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 372: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 394: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 414: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 473: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 479: Mr. BABIN, Mr. ALLEN, and Mr.
DUNN.
H.R. 485: Mr. PETERSON.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:26 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00172 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H23JA9.REC H23JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1173
January 23, 2019
H.R. 493: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 502: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 510: Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. ESTES, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. WOMACK, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. MITCHELL, and Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 511: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Ms.
JAYAPAL.
H.R. 516: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania and
Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 523: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 532: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 535: Mr. DELGADO and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 544: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 545: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 553: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. BISHOP of
Utah, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. TONKO, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
PETERSON, Mr. PETERS, Mr. BYRNE, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mrs. LURIA, and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 554: Mr. ZELDIN and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 555: Mr. TONKO, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 562: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 578: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 582: Mr. CASE, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
BERA, and Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 587: Mr. POSEY, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. BOST, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Mr. NEAL, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. JONES, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT
of Georgia, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. CURTIS,
Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. RUSH, and Mr.
PERRY.
H.R. 590: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 592: Mr. COLE and Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 601: Mr. PETERS and Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 603: Mr. JORDAN, Mr. NORMAN, and Mr.
BUDD.
H.R. 615: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Mr.
CICILLINE.
H.R. 617: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 628: Mr. CLOUD, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, Mr. POSEY, Mr. CHABOT, and Mr.
DUNN.
H.R. 634: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee and Mr.
JORDAN.
H.R. 643: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 645: Ms. SPEIER, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN
of Oklahoma, Mr. KIM, Mr. PETERS, and Mr.
PAYNE.
H.R. 647: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. UPTON,
and Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 649: Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. WEXTON, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. PELOSI, and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 650: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 652: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 663: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 664: Mr. NEWHOUSE and Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 672: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 705: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
SMUCKER, Mr. HURD of Texas, and Mr.
NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 708: Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. ROUZER, and Mr. ALLEN.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. CRIST, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr.
CICILLINE.
H.J. Res. 22: Mr. NEWHOUSE and Mr.
TIMMONS.
H. Con. Res. 5: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H. Res. 12: Mr. GAETZ.
H. Res. 23: Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Miss RICE of New
York.
H. Res. 33: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. TITUS,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, and Mrs.
LURIA.
H. Res. 35: Ms. SCANLON.
H. Res. 44: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H. Res. 50: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. MEADOWS,
and Mr. GOSAR.
H. Res. 58: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. FUDGE, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00173 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA7.027 H23JAPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S483
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2019 No. 14
Senate
(Legislative day of Tuesday, January 22, 2019)
The Senate met at 11 a.m., on the ex-
piration of the recess, and was called to
order by the Honorable JOHN HOEVEN, a
Senator from the State of North Da-
kota.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, the center of our joy, on
September 11, 2001, our Nation united
because of an external threat. Remind
our lawmakers that nations are not
only destroyed from without but from
within.
As each Senator has taken an oath to
protect our Constitution from all en-
emies, foreign and domestic, provide
him or her with the guidance to pas-
sionately defend this land we love from
the most subtle incursions. Lord, as
some Members of our Armed Forces
seek sustenance at charity food pan-
tries and prepare to miss a second pay-
day, something has to give.
Forgive us, almighty God, for our
sins of commission and omission. Re-
mind each Senator of the words of
Jesus of Nazareth in Luke 10:7: ‘‘Those
who work deserve their pay.’’
We pray in Your sovereign Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, January 23, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable JOHN HOEVEN, a Sen-
ator from the State of North Dakota, to per-
form the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mr. HOEVEN thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Resumed
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report the pending
business.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to S. 1, a bill to make
improvements to certain defense and secu-
rity assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to reau-
thorize the United States-Jordan Defense Co-
operation Act of 2015, and to halt the whole-
sale slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, yes-
terday, the Republican leader, my
friend, announced that the Senate
would hold two votes on Thursday
afternoon. First, the Senate will vote
on the President’s proposal, and then
the Senate will vote on an amendment
that is essentially identical to the un-
derlying bill sent to us from the House,
meaning a continuing resolution that
opens the government for 3 weeks plus
disaster assistance.
Let me be very clear. These two
votes are not equivalent votes. It is not
‘‘on the one hand, on the other hand.’’
The President’s proposal demands a
wall and radical legal immigration
changes in exchange for opening up the
government. The second vote demands
nothing in exchange for opening up the
government.
The first vote—unless you do it my
way, I am keeping the government
shut down—is the Trump amendment.
Our amendment says: Open up the gov-
ernment, and then let’s talk.
To say, well, one is a Democratic
amendment and one is a Republican
amendment doesn’t get the magnitude
of this. The difference is one is holding
800,000 workers hostage—millions of
Americans hostage—unless the amend-
ment authors get their way. The sec-
ond vote doesn’t demand anything. It
just says to open up the government
and then let’s discuss it.
The first vote, on the President’s
plan, includes radical changes to our
asylum system and the full funding the
President asked for the border wall in
exchange for reopening the govern-
ment. The first vote is completely par-
tisan. The first vote is the President’s
hostage-taking position codified into
an amendment. It says: You must do it
our way and pay $5.7 billion for a wall
before we open the government.
The second vote is the opposite. It
does not demand anything before we
reopen the government. It simply re-
opens the government for 3 weeks and
allows us to continue debating border
security. There is nothing partisan
about the second vote. If President
Trump weren’t opposed to it, there
would be nothing controversial about
the second vote and just about every
Republican would vote for it, as they
did the first time, a month ago.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.000 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S484 January 23, 2019
The second vote is not a Democratic
proposal with demands. The first vote
is a Republican proposal with Repub-
lican demands. One simply reopens the
government. The other says: No way. It
embodies the President’s temper tan-
trum: If you don’t do it my way, I am
shutting down the government and
hurting lots of people.
The two votes are not equivalent. It
is not ‘‘on the one hand, on the other.’’
They are diametrically opposed in con-
cept.
I do give Leader MCCONNELL credit.
He put on the floor, for the first time,
an ability for Senators to vote on a
clean proposal to reopen the govern-
ment. That is the second vote. It is
completely silent on the issue of border
security. A vote for the continuing res-
olution does not preclude a continued
discussion on how we best secure our
border. It isn’t pro-wall or anti-wall. It
just says: Open up the government. It
is a way to reopen government while
we continue to work out our dif-
ferences.
I want my Republican friends to un-
derstand the stakes here. Reopening
the government for 3 weeks may not
sound like a long time, but it is mas-
sively important to 800,000 public serv-
ants who have been languishing with-
out pay. Reopening the government
even for 3 weeks would mean that all
800,000 get their backpay, to which they
are entitled. That is three full pay-
checks: one for January 11, one for
January 25, and one for February 8. Let
me repeat that. Even a 3-week con-
tinuing resolution would provide three
full paychecks to our Federal employ-
ees: TSA, Border Patrol, FBI agents,
air traffic controllers, food safety in-
spectors, Coast Guard. Every one of the
ones I mentioned involves our security.
The President says—in my opinion, to-
tally incorrectly, misstating all of the
facts—that we need the big wall for our
security. Even if he succeeds—which he
will not, I believe—it would take years
to build that wall. There is also emi-
nent domain and so many other issues
that it might never be built at all. But
this is hurting TSA, hurting Border Pa-
trol, and hurting FBI agents, air traffic
controllers, food safety inspectors, and
Coast Guard members, who all deal
with our security right now—right
now.
So if you believe in the security of
America, you vote for the second
amendment, no matter what you think
of the wall.
The American people, more and
more—it is amazing—were on our side
to start with, and they are turning
more on our side now. In a CBS poll
this morning, 7 out of 10 Americans say
the issue of a border wall is not worth
this government shutdown, including
71 percent of Independents, but, as-
toundingly, 43 percent of all Repub-
licans say a border wall is not worth a
government shutdown. Close to half of
all Republican voters are saying to
President Trump and to Leader MCCON-
NELL and to every Republican Senator
in this Chamber: Don’t keep this shut-
down going over the wall. Don’t hold
the government hostage. Open it back
up and figure out your policy dif-
ferences.
Parenthetically, I would remind my
colleagues that this poll—and another
one this morning showed the same
thing with President Trump’s ratings
lower than ever—occurred after his
speech on Saturday. His gambit to try
to get the shutdown off his back failed,
as it should have, because the shut-
down is solely his. He said he was
proud of it. He said 25 times before he
did it that he wanted to do it. Every-
one knows the shutdown is his. Neither
the President nor our Republican
friends can squiggle out of that one.
Because of the President’s destructive
hostage-taking gambit, as I said, his
disapproval rating reached the highest
level of his Presidency in the CBS poll.
What more do my Republican col-
leagues need to hear? The will of the
American people is crystal clear: Open
the government.
I know that President Trump has
some power in these Republican pri-
maries, but sometimes you have to rise
to the occasion.
The second bill, without any pre-
conceptions or preconditions says:
Open the government. The first bill is
hostage-taking: Unless you do it my
way, the government is staying shut
down.
So these are not equivalent bills.
These are not ‘‘on the one hand, on the
other hand.’’
For weeks we have been at a stale-
mate. Leader MCCONNELL has not al-
lowed a vote on legislation to reopen
the government until now. Tomorrow
the Senate will finally have its chance.
We can reopen the government until
February 8 and continue to discuss bor-
der security. If you are worried about
hundreds of thousands of Federal em-
ployees going without pay, if you are
worried about the impacts of the shut-
down on our economy or our basic se-
curity—as law enforcement, Border Pa-
trol, and food safety are not paid—if
you are worried about our national se-
curity, and if you are looking for a way
to open up the government, this is the
way. The second vote is the only way
that is on the floor of the Senate and
can actually open up the government.
I urge all of my Republican col-
leagues, as they did once before—before
President Trump said what he said—to
join Democrats on a bipartisan basis on
the second vote tomorrow and, finally,
open up the government.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Ohio.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am
here today to talk about the ongoing
government shutdown and the need to
provide more security on our southern
border and to try to put a little per-
spective around it.
The President just issued his own
proposal. It is a reasonable proposal, I
think, and a constructive proposal to
try to end this shutdown and reopen
the government and strengthen the
southern border. I am told we are going
to vote on that plan tomorrow here in
the Senate. It includes a lot of the
ideas that I have been discussing with
colleagues on both sides of the aisle,
Democrats and Republicans, over the
past few weeks. Some of these ideas are
ones that Democrats support more, and
some the Republicans support more. It
is the basis for a compromise.
I am going to vote for the President’s
plan, and I am going to explain here in
a minute why I would hope that col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle would
support that plan tomorrow as a way
to take a step forward and to take a
step back from the partisanship and
the division that is keeping our govern-
ment shutdown.
My hope is that even if the proposal
cannot pass with a 60-vote majority,
which, unfortunately, seems likely
right now, it will spark good-faith ne-
gotiations to enable us to quickly end
the government shutdown and move
forward.
Unfortunately, some of the partisan-
ship and division I talked about has
made that harder. It is interesting that
even before the President made his an-
nouncement, but on the day he was
making it, the Speaker of the House,
NANCY PELOSI, said the proposal was a
nonstarter before she knew what was in
it. That is not serious. That is not the
basis for a serious negotiation and cer-
tainly not responsible for us in the
middle of a partial government shut-
down.
I think there is in this body—and, I
think, in the House, as well—a general
consensus that we need to do more to
protect the southern border. The
Democratic leadership of the House
and the Speaker of the House just pre-
sented a billion-dollar plan, for in-
stance, for more border security.
I call it a crisis, but call it what you
want. Here are the facts. During Octo-
ber and November of last year, the
most recent months for which we have
good information, Customs and Border
Protection agents apprehended more
than 100,000 people trying to enter our
country illegally. That is nearly double
the number of people who were appre-
hended a year ago in 2017. That is twice
as many people.
The big increase, as you know, is
with families and kids, unaccompanied
children. According to the Department
of Homeland Security, there has been a
50-percent increase in the number of
families coming across the border ille-
gally and a 25 percent increase in the
number of children during fiscal year
2018. Along with that, there has been a
2,000-percent increase over the past 5
years in asylum claims. That increase
has primarily come from three Central
American countries: Guatemala, El
Salvador and Honduras. While 9 out of
10 of these asylum claims are ulti-
mately rejected by the immigration
courts, the applicants have long since
been released into the interior of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.002 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S485
January 23, 2019
United States. People don’t stay in de-
tention waiting for their hearing. They
are released into our communities. I
am told by Customs and Border Protec-
tion that they think about 90 percent
of those families and children are never
removed.
Is that a problem? I think everyone
should agree that this is a problem.
The system is breaking down.
In fiscal year 2018, Customs and Bor-
der Protection referred nearly 50,000
unaccompanied minors—all of whom
came across our southern border to
seek asylum—to the Department of
Health and Human Services for care. I
have done a lot of work on this issue in
the Homeland Security subcommittee
called the Permanent Subcommittee
on Investigations.
It is a tough situation. It is a tough
situation to have these kids in any
kind of detention for any kind of time.
It is a tough situation for these chil-
dren, many of whom have experienced
trauma and violence on their journey
north and need significant help.
Human trafficking remains a signifi-
cant problem along the border. Law en-
forcement officials on both sides con-
tinue to arrest people for facilitating
labor and sex trafficking of adults and
children, women and children. Local
law enforcement along the border have
repeatedly voiced their concerns.
In addition to the individuals traf-
ficked into the United States involun-
tarily, criminal smuggling networks
mislead prospective migrants by assur-
ing them a safe route into the United
States. This happens all the time. Ac-
cording to a survey by Doctors Without
Borders, over two-thirds of migrants
report facing violence on the journey
north, including theft, extortion, tor-
ture, and sexual assault. Almost one-
third of women report being sexually
abused while being taken on that jour-
ney north to enter the United States.
This is something none of us should
find acceptable.
Furthermore, as we know, the Drug
Enforcement Agency has said: ‘‘The
southwest border remains the primary
entry point for heroin into the United
States.’’ There is no disagreement
about that. I am told that about 90 per-
cent of the heroin that is flowing into
our communities comes across the
southern border and that fentanyl,
which is this incredibly powerful syn-
thetic opioid that is 50 times more
powerful than heroin and comes pri-
marily from China and primarily
through the Postal Service, is actually
increasingly going through Mexico too.
Law enforcement tells me that it is
being shipped from China to Mexico
and is then being taken across the
southern border. Seizures of fentanyl—
which, by the way, is the No. 1 cause of
death in my home State of Ohio and in,
probably, your States—increased by 135
percent in its coming across the south-
ern border last year as compared to
2017. Again, most of it is coming from
China, and most of it is coming
through the mail system, but increas-
ingly it is also coming across the bor-
der.
It gets worse. Over the past few
weeks, I have been at three meetings
with drug abuse task forces in Ohio and
have talked about the crisis back home
and how we should address it, and we
are making some progress. That is the
good news. Progress is also being made
with regard to opioids. We are seeing
fewer deaths by overdose, and we are
seeing fewer addictions.
What we have done here in Congress
is to put more money into prevention
and treatment and longer term recov-
ery, and our providing Narcan to our
first responders and others is beginning
to work.
Guess what I heard from all three of
these task forces. It is that now, com-
ing up—raising its ugly head—is pure
crystal meth. Methamphetamines are
taking the place of opioids in some of
these communities. That is the new
scourge. Guess where this crystal meth
is coming from—Mexico. This is pure,
powerful crystal meth. We have seen a
38-percent increase in methamphet-
amine trafficking across the border,
again, just from 2017 to 2018.
I don’t think there is any disagree-
ment on either side of the aisle that we
need a more secure southern border,
not just because of people coming in il-
legally but because of the fact that
there is trafficking, that there are
drugs being transported across that
border, and we all want to address it.
Senator SCHUMER, who just spoke,
has talked a lot about the need for
more screening at our ports of entry
because most of these drugs come in by
way of cars and trucks. He is right. By
the way, that is in the President’s pro-
posal.
Because of all of those problems, the
experts tell us we need to do some
things. One thing they say they need
are more physical barriers. This is
from the experts. They also want more
Border Patrol agents. They want more
technology. They want more surveil-
lance, more cameras. They want drones
to be in some places that are out in the
desert so they can see what is going on.
They want more screening at the ports
of entry. Again, the Democrats have
supported it, and I have supported it.
They are looking for anything they can
do to try to stop the flow of drugs and
to do it with technology, and that
takes more money.
I believe the proposal the President
outlined over the weekend hits all of
those points. That is why I think it is
responsible. He made clear that he is
prepared to have these new barriers
that he is proposing not be cement
walls, which is what so many Demo-
crats have opposed, but, rather, to be
fences. In some places, they should be
wire—pedestrian fences. In other
places, they should be low vehicle bar-
riers. In other places, they should be
what the President has called steel bar-
riers, the ones you see through. That is
the kind of construction we are talking
about here, not the cement wall that a
lot of people think he is proposing.
Frankly, that is what they have taken
from what he has said and from what
the Democrats have said. It is almost
like we are talking past each other.
Second, specifically, his proposal
stipulates that these barriers would be
constructed in a way that would be
consistent with the ‘‘Border Security
Improvement Plan.’’ It is a plan that
experts at the Customs and Border Pro-
tection Agency have proposed. These
are the experts.
It is not 2,000 miles of the border that
would have these fences and structures
and barriers that we are talking about.
In the President’s proposal—and this is
going to surprise you—it would be 234
miles of the border.
So, No. 1, they would not be the ce-
ment walls in the way that people are
talking about. No. 2, it is going to be
done in the way in which the experts
recommend in terms of where they are
going to be placed and what kinds of
structures they will be. It will also be
a total of 234 miles out of the 2,000-mile
border.
The 234 miles are going to support
the top 10 priorities of this plan that
the Customs and Border Protection
people have submitted, which is this
‘‘Border Security Improvement Plan.’’
It is going to be specifically what the
experts say the top 10 priorities are.
What are their top 10 priorities? I am
told, for instance, it is a new fence in
parts of Texas where there is no fenc-
ing in the urban areas. That is in the
plan. The White House is not making
these decisions, but the experts are
through this border security plan.
The legislation that the President
has proposed has some specific lan-
guage in it saying that these barriers
must be built in an operational, effec-
tive design that prioritizes agents’
safety. That language, folks, was taken
right out of the bipartisan fiscal 2018
appropriations bill that this Senate
passed last year. This is consistent
with votes we have taken in the past as
to what kind of wall it will be and
where it will be. That means the defini-
tion is one we have long voted for. As
we speak, approximately 115 miles of
border barrier is being built using this
same definition because it was pro-
posed and voted on by this Chamber
last year, just a year ago, on a bipar-
tisan basis.
The $5.7 billion proposal in funding
for the construction of additional phys-
ical barriers along the southern border
is consistent with what the experts say
ought to be done.
Based on the Secure Fence Act back
in 2006, which, again, was bipartisan,
more than 500 miles of fencing have al-
ready been built in California, in Ari-
zona, and in New Mexico by previous
administrations, Republican and
Democratic alike. Based on the data,
on the actual facts, it is making a dif-
ference. The data from Customs and
Border Protection show that in areas
where this fencing has been built, ap-
prehensions have decreased substan-
tially. That probably doesn’t surprise
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.003 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S486 January 23, 2019
you if you think about it. At a min-
imum, having these barriers slows peo-
ple down and keeps vehicles from com-
ing across that desert terrain, which
gives the Border Patrol a chance to re-
spond, along with there being the tech-
nology—the cameras, the sensors.
Again, another one of the misconcep-
tions about this whole debate is that it
is over the entire 2,000-mile border. It
is not. It is over 234 miles. These bar-
riers will be strategically deployed.
They will be built where they are the
most needed—in populated areas,
where there are not already natural
barriers to keep people from crossing.
What his proposal does, as I look at it,
is it fills a demonstrated infrastructure
gap along the border but only where it
is necessary.
As we talked about, our Border Pa-
trol experts say Texas is their top pri-
ority. Why? It is because Texas is 1,200
miles of the 2,000-mile border and be-
cause there are only 100 miles of bar-
rier in Texas currently. So there are
over 500 miles of border that have bar-
riers, and only 100 miles of that is in
Texas, which has 1,200 miles of the bor-
der. It has most of the border.
The new fencing is particularly nec-
essary in the most populated parts of
the Rio Grande Valley. McAllen, TX, is
one example of that. To me, that
makes sense because that is where
about 40 percent of the crossings occur
and because they are asking for this
fencing there. These are the experts.
In addition to there being more fund-
ing for more barriers, the President has
requested more money with which to
hire another 750 Border Patrol agents
and 2,000 additional law enforcement
professionals. Again, more people to be
able to respond is something that on a
bipartisan basis, I think we support
here.
He is proposing $800 million for hu-
manitarian needs, to fund and enhance
medical support and transportation fa-
cilities for those who are detained at
the border. This is consistent with
what the Democrats have supported in
order to deal with the humanitarian
challenge. The Homeland Security ap-
propriations bill already includes fund-
ing for these purposes, but the Presi-
dent requested additional funds to help
with the influx we have talked about.
So it is like a supplemental spending
request. We have had more families and
more unaccompanied children in par-
ticular, so it makes sense to have more
humanitarian funds available to deal
with that.
The President has also requested $563
million for 75 additional immigration
judges and support staff so we can re-
duce the nearly 800,000 pending immi-
gration cases that are backlogged. This
backlog is part of our problem because
people are typically in the commu-
nities, and many of them don’t show up
for their court cases. Reduce the back-
log—that is the obvious answer here.
By the way, this part of the President’s
proposal is identical to the proposal
Speaker PELOSI made just a few days
ago. It is identical—75 new judges and
support staff.
Finally, the President has requested
a total of $805 million for counter-
narcotics and weapons technology
screening at the ports of entry. There
is $675 million within that for reinvest-
ment in drug and weapons detection
and $130 million for K–9 units, training,
personnel, and portable scanners.
Again, this is one some of us feel very
strongly about, including Senator
SCHUMER and including a lot of us on
this side of the aisle. It is one that was
also proposed by Speaker PELOSI a few
days ago—more money for screening at
the ports of entry. Her proposal is al-
most identical to the President’s, ex-
cept, frankly, the President proposes a
little more money for the same pur-
poses.
It is like we are talking past each
other. We know there is a need. We
generally agree. There is a general con-
sensus on the need for what has to be
done along the border; yet we can’t
seem to find common ground. To try to
get there, in addition to these funding
requests—and I applaud him for this—
the President outlined his support for
dealing with other immigration re-
forms that both parties support, such
as DACA.
I remember DACA as being these
young people who came here as chil-
dren through no fault of their own and
that the question was, Do you continue
the program that President Obama set
in place or not? My view is to resolve
this political football once and for all
and provide certainty to these young
people who came here through no fault
of their own. Some of them are work-
ing, some of them are in school, and
some are in the military. They are
looking for some certainty.
In the way the legislation is drafted,
it is for these young people who have
taken the responsible course and have
gone to school or who are working or
who are in our military. This is a proc-
ess whereby we can provide that cer-
tainty, and the President has proposed
it. He has proposed for all of those chil-
dren who have applied for and been ac-
cepted into this DACA Program 3 years
of additional authorization to be here,
which will be past this administration.
The President has also embraced an
effort to look at this issue of tem-
porary protected status, or TPS, which
allows us to provide protection to indi-
viduals who come from particularly
trouble-stricken countries, and there
are now 10 countries on that list. The
Secretary of Homeland Security has
the authority to provide harbor to
those individuals where there has been
a natural disaster, where there is a
war, or where there has been a lot of
violence in those countries.
Some of those TPS visas are expir-
ing. I believe the President has laid out
something that many Democrats have
called for that makes sense, in my
view, which is to provide some more
certainty for some of those individuals.
Again, it is a 3-year authorization,
which will go beyond the next election.
The President has also talked about
changing the asylum process. He has
picked up some ideas from that side of
the aisle and this side of the aisle, in-
cluding having people apply for asylum
in their own countries.
This is an attempt to find that com-
mon ground. Yes, let’s be sure we have
a protected southern border, but let’s
also deal with what have been some po-
litical and, unfortunately, intractable
problems. For all of these reasons, I
think we need to come together and ne-
gotiate a solution. I think the Presi-
dent’s proposal is a reasonable one.
That is why I plan to support it.
I know my Democratic colleagues
have other ideas as well. What I said to
them this morning and last night and
will say again this afternoon when we
meet—Republicans and Democrats
alike—is, let’s talk. We are not that far
apart. Let’s close this gap. That is
what I find to be the most frustrating
part of this. Yes, we have had shut-
downs in the past, but I don’t think we
have ever had a shutdown that is so
easy to resolve. We are not that far
apart. If we would stop talking past
each other, including as to what kind
of structures we are going to put along
the border, as I talked about, I think
we could get there.
In my view, shutdowns don’t make
sense. We are now in day 33 of this gov-
ernment shutdown. I am not a big fan.
I have legislation I have now intro-
duced five times in Congress to say
let’s end government shutdowns. The
legislation would simply continue the
spending from the previous year and
reduce it by 1 percent after 120 days
and another 1 percent after the next 90
days in order to incentivize Congress to
get its act together and actually pass
the appropriations bills.
At day 33, 800,000 workers have
missed one paycheck, and another pay-
check is coming up tomorrow.
I have heard from a lot of folks in my
State of Ohio—TSA employees, of
course, at the airports, many of whom
I spoke to when I came to Washington
yesterday morning. It is a tough situa-
tion for them. Some of them don’t have
the savings. They live paycheck to pay-
check. They are getting by through a
combination of things—family mem-
bers helping them, talking to the
banks about their car payments or
their mortgage payments. It is putting
a lot of stress on them. I applaud them
for showing up to work, by the way.
Workers at NASA—NASA Glenn in
Cleveland, OH—can’t go to work, so
our space program is being slowed
down. That is a problem.
Across the board, I am hearing from
people who are in law enforcement, our
prosecutors, saying they can’t pay in-
formants to be able to go after drug
dealers. I am hearing from our Coast
Guard personnel on Lake Erie. Again,
these are patriots. They are showing up
for work. I applaud them for that. I
thank them. We owe them an end to
this shutdown and a resolution to this
issue.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.005 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S487
January 23, 2019
I also don’t like shutdowns because,
frankly, as bad as they are for families,
they are also bad for taxpayers. As tax-
payers, we always end up paying more
in the end. In the end, we are paying
people not to work because people who
are furloughed are going to get their
paychecks when this is over. That
doesn’t seem very good for taxpayers.
The people who are actually showing
up for work—we are not paying them
now, but we will pay them later. It is
inefficient. Services are being cut off.
Yet, in the end, taxpayers are going to
be paying for it. So it doesn’t help tax-
payers.
I also don’t like it because it hurts
our economy. People say: Well, not
much. We are doing fine.
We are doing fine. Thanks to the tax
cuts and tax reform and regulatory re-
lief, the economy is doing better, but
this is running the other way. This is
providing negative momentum.
The Council of Economic Advisers at
the White House told us this week that
the shutdown is going to reduce quar-
terly economic growth by 0.13 percent
for every week it lasts. In other words,
every week the shutdown continues, it
hurts our economy more. If this shut-
down lasts another 4 weeks, that will
be a full point off GDP. So in just an-
other 23 days, it will be a full point off
our GDP. That is a big deal. That hurts
paychecks, it hurts jobs, and it hurts
the economic growth that all of us are
so happy to finally have—to see the
fact that unemployment is low, to see
the fact that there are more jobs out
there than there are workers looking,
and to see the fact that wages are fi-
nally starting to increase. Let’s not go
the other way.
We have the opportunity before us to
solve this. It is not that hard. Let’s
stop talking past each other. Let’s find
that common ground.
The President is going to have to
continue to negotiate, and he says that
he will. The Speaker of the House is
going to have to move. It is not respon-
sible for her to say not a penny more
for barriers along the border, which she
traditionally supported, as have other
Democrats.
Let’s act in good faith. Let’s move
forward to a responsible resolution
that will reopen the government but
will also ensure that we have a secure
southern border. That is what the
American people want. That is what we
should be providing in the Senate and
in the House, working with the Presi-
dent. Let’s come together, and let’s get
it done.
I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI). The Senator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
have up here a quote from the Wash-
ington Post from January 20, 2019. The
words say: ‘‘to refuse even to talk until
the government reopens does no favors
to sidelined Federal workers and con-
tractors’’—to refuse even to talk. This
is a Washington Post editorial message
to the Democrats.
The Post says that the Democrats
should welcome the President’s week-
end offer and return to the negotiating
table to end this partial government
shutdown, which is now in its fifth
week. I agree. It is time to end this
stalemate. It is time to talk, and it is
time to vote.
The title of the editorial was ‘‘Make
a deal. Save the dreamers’’—make a
deal.
Divided government is often messy
business. It is also serious business. It
is what the American people have
voted for and what we have seen more
often than not in this country. Politi-
cally, there really are no winners and
losers in this arena. What I worry
about is the American people. Nobody
wins in terms of a shutdown.
The Senate will vote tomorrow on
commonsense, compromise legislation
to secure the border, reopen the gov-
ernment, as well as to address what I
believe are key immigration issues for
the country.
We do have a national security and a
humanitarian crisis at our southern
border. President Trump has, again, re-
quested $5.7 billion. That is one one-
thousandth of the Federal spending. He
has requested the money for a steel
barrier system.
The southern border is almost 2,000
miles. The physical barrier already
protects about 650 miles. The President
wants to build more security barriers
because we know they are a proven so-
lution.
In addition, the President is pro-
posing to grant provisional status—a 3-
year reprieve—for the 700,000 Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals illegal
immigrants, known as DACA. This 3-
year reprieve will also help 300,000 tem-
porary protected status immigrants.
When people say TPS, that is what it
stands for—immigrants with tem-
porary protected status. Right now,
they have protected status, but that is
expiring. These are individuals who
have suffered devastation in their lives
due to the challenges previously faced
in Haiti, as well as individuals from
Central America. So we are talking
about over 1 million people for whom
the President is proposing changes that
would impact them and their lives.
These DACA and TPS measures are
an immigration policy bandaid. They
are not the solution to everything.
They deal with an immediate problem
for a limited period of time. Once the
government reopens, the President
then plans, as he said, to hold weekly,
bipartisan meetings aimed at broader
immigration reform.
Border security policy has always
been bipartisan. For decades, Presi-
dents and congressional leaders from
both parties have supported security
barriers to protect the American peo-
ple.
In 2006, Senate Democrats, including
Senator Barack Obama at the time and
Senator Hillary Clinton and Senator
Joe Biden and Senator CHUCK SCHU-
MER—all of them—voted to construct a
physical barrier on the southern bar-
rier.
In 2005, then-Senator Obama said
this: ‘‘We simply cannot allow people
to pour into the United States unde-
tected, undocumented, and un-
checked.’’ Then, when Senator Obama
became President Obama, he actually
described the border situation as a cri-
sis, but he failed to fix it.
President Trump resolved to fix the
decades-old problem. That is when
Democratic leaders suddenly changed
their tune. They withdrew support for
securing the border and dug in their
heels, prolonging the partial govern-
ment shutdown.
Even President Obama’s last Border
Patrol Chief, Mark Morgan, supports
President Trump’s efforts. President
Trump did not keep him in the job, but
Mark Morgan has said—and he was on
television the other day—that building
the wall is key to solving the security
crisis and that Trump—President
Trump—should ‘‘stay the course.’’
Still, Democrats refuse to negotiate
with this President, so we can’t reopen
the affected Federal Agencies and pay
the 800,000 furloughed Federal workers.
President Trump has the truth on his
side. Here is the Homeland Security
Department’s assessment of the border
situation: Each month, 60,000 illegal
immigrants reach the border. Drug
smuggling spiked in 2018, with a 38-per-
cent increase in methamphetamine, a
22-percent increase in heroin, and a 73-
percent increase in fentanyl. We also
saw a surge in arrests of dangerous
criminals, including 17,000 adults with
criminal records and 6,000 MS–13 and
other gang members.
In 2018, 60,000 unaccompanied chil-
dren and 161,000 families reached the
border—a dramatic increase from 2017.
Many were victimized along their jour-
ney.
The Border Patrol areas that do have
enhanced or expanded physical barriers
have seen a dramatic decrease in ille-
gal traffic. That is why the President
has requested additional funds to con-
struct more barriers. The areas he has
pointed to are the 10 locations where
the Border Patrol has said: These are
the spots where we really need the
help.
All Americans want a healthy immi-
gration system that enforces the law
and keeps families together. The Presi-
dent has put a reasonable, bipartisan
compromise on the table to end this
partial shutdown and to pay furloughed
Federal workers. President Trump is
ready to sign this legislation. The Sen-
ate will vote on it tomorrow.
The House Democrats hold the keys
to reopening the government. I believe
Democrats should stop playing politics
and meet President Trump in the mid-
dle. That is what President has done
with his good-faith effort.
I say: Let’s vote to secure the border
and vote to reopen the government.
TRIBUTE TO ALFRED REDMAN, SR.
Madam President, now I would like
to turn to a different topic that would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.006 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S488 January 23, 2019
be at an appropriate location in the
RECORD. It is something that I think
the Presiding Officer, as the former
chairman of the Indian Affairs Com-
mittee, would find interesting. That is
because I rise today to pay tribute to
an incredible individual, a great man,
the legendary Indian High School boys’
basketball coach, Alfred Redman.
Saturday night, in Ethete, WY, the
long-time coach was surrounded by
school officials, by players, and by
fans, who gathered for a ceremony re-
naming the school’s gymnasium in his
honor. Redman’s incredible coaching
record as he coached the Chiefs was 426
wins and 118 losses in 26 seasons.
Under his leadership, the Chiefs con-
sistently made State tournament ap-
pearances, winning six State cham-
pionship titles, and finishing second six
additional times.
Coach Redman was tough. He condi-
tioned his players through grueling
practices. This was his formula for suc-
cess: Work the players hard and make
the games easier to win. His toughness
paid off. He put Wyoming Indian bas-
ketball on the map, both at the State
and the national levels.
Over the seasons, from 1983 to 1986,
Redman’s Chiefs set the State bar with
a recordbreaking 50 straight victories.
That record still stands today. It is no
surprise that Redman is both a Wyo-
ming and a national coaches Hall of
Fame inductee.
Wyoming owes a great debt of grati-
tude to Coach Redman—a giant in
State basketball history.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. REED. Madam President, I come
to the floor again to urge an end to the
Trump shutdown, which is over a
month old—the longest in history.
Let’s be clear. This is the Trump
shutdown. The President called for a
shutdown two dozen times, and he said
he would be proud to own it.
Regrettably, it is clear that he does
not care about the impact his shut-
down is having on families across the
United States. He barely acknowledges
their pain.
If you needed any reminder of the
low regard the President has for the
Federal workforce, remember that on
December 28, in the midst of the shut-
down he instigated, he signed an Exec-
utive order that will freeze pay for the
civilian workforce in 2019—assuming he
ever reopens the government.
With his announcement on Saturday,
the President is now playing games
with the lives of hundreds of thousands
of refugees and Dreamers, who, because
of his earlier actions, could face the
real threat of deportation.
Meanwhile, his administration is
playing favorites, rewarding those with
deep pockets and good connections,
forcing IRS employees back to work
without pay to process tax returns, re-
opening the Department of the Interior
to help pave the way for oil and gas
leaks.
For those without resources, it is
often a different story. Recipients of
Federal housing assistance, for exam-
ple, are wondering what their status
might be in the next month.
FBI agents are worried about the ef-
fect the shutdown will have on active
investigations. Air traffic controllers,
FAA inspectors, and TSA workers are
working long hours to keep flights on
time and safe, but the cost to them and
their Agencies will stretch years into
the future.
Transit agencies, unable to draw
down needed Federal capital and oper-
ating funding, are also feeling the
pinch, which could affect service and
safety down the line. We have seen this
coming. That is why Democrats have
been pleading with the majority leader
for weeks to allow a vote on the fund-
ing bills that Senate Republicans wrote
last year so we can reopen the govern-
ment. These measures have broad bi-
partisan support. In fact, the leader
voted for each of them, but for weeks,
the majority leader refused to allow a
vote on these and other bills, saying
the Senate will not waste floor time on
show votes, on bills he believes the
President will not sign. By his defini-
tion, he can only bring up bills that
can pass the House, earn 60 votes in the
Senate, and get the President’s signa-
ture.
As the leader knows, when there is a
veto-proof majority—as there has been
in the Senate on these very bills to
fund the government—the President is,
quite frankly, irrelevant.
Here is what the record shows: Last
year, the Senate passed the Agri-
culture appropriations bill 92 to 6. We
passed the Interior appropriations bill
92 to 6. We passed the Financial Serv-
ices-General Government appropria-
tions bill 92 to 6. We passed the Trans-
portation-HUD appropriations bill 92 to
6. Although they didn’t come to the
floor, the Appropriations Committee
passed the Commerce-Justice-Science
bill and the State-Foreign Operations
bill unanimously.
As for the Department of Homeland
Security, we passed a continuing reso-
lution in the Senate unanimously last
year to keep the Department funded at
least temporarily. There is no reason
we can’t pass that measure again and
start paying our coastguardsmen and
other DHS personnel. What cannot pass
is President Trump’s demand for bil-
lions and billions to build hundreds of
miles of ineffective wall through places
where it is unwarranted.
Don’t take my word for it. Listen to
Congressman WILL HURD, a Texas Re-
publican, who represents a district he
says includes 820 miles of the roughly
1,900-mile border with Mexico. Con-
gressman HURD has called the wall
‘‘the most expensive and least effective
way to secure the border.’’ He is cor-
rect, and MIT engineers and other ex-
perts have estimated this wall will cost
well north of $30-plus billion.
Democrats want to focus on border
security infrastructure but the im-
provements of greatest need, including
ports of entry and more effective tech-
nology to detect illegal border cross-
ings and drug smuggling. Once the gov-
ernment is open, there is room for de-
bate on how best to improve border se-
curity and even on longstanding immi-
gration matters.
It will not be easy. First, the Presi-
dent’s call for a wall is as political as
the day is long. He is focused on moti-
vating the roughly 30 percent of Ameri-
cans who think keeping the govern-
ment shut down is a good thing.
Second, negotiating with this Presi-
dent has proved a difficult job, even for
members of his own party because he
has a hard time keeping his end of the
bargain. In December, when Repub-
licans controlled both the House and
Senate, the Senate unanimously passed
a bipartisan deal, sponsored by the ma-
jority leader, to keep the government
funded until the beginning of February.
The clear understanding was that the
President, as communicated by Vice
President PENCE, would sign the legis-
lation, but, within hours, the President
scuttled the agreement.
Going back to March 2018, the Presi-
dent nearly vetoed the Republican Om-
nibus appropriations bill that was
based on funding levels he had already
agreed to.
As far as funding for border security,
the President changes his demands
constantly. First, Mexico was going to
pay for the President’s border wall.
Last February, he asked taxpayers for
$1.6 billion. Then it became $5 billion.
Now it is $5.7 billion. How is it possible
to make a deal with, frankly, such an
unreliable party?
Here is one other point, and it goes
beyond President Trump. If Congress
capitulates to his demands because he
has shut down the government, he will
be emboldened to use the same tactic
again and again and again. If he suc-
ceeds, then every President who fol-
lows will feel justified in using the
same ploy. Rather than ending one
shutdown, we will be inviting more in
the future.
The only choice we have in Congress
is to pass the bills we know have over-
whelming bipartisan support and re-
open the government with or without
the President’s signature.
Tomorrow the majority leader will be
asking the Senate to surrender to the
President’s cynical demands for wall
funding. That proposal is a dead letter
purposely filled with poison pills: It
will not get 60 votes in the Senate and
will not pass the House. It fails the
very test the majority leader has been
saying must be met. It is, by his own
definition, a show vote.
As an alternative, the Senate will
have the opportunity to vote again on
the majority leader’s proposal from
last December, which would reopen the
government through February 8. Added
to that measure will be much needed
disaster assistance. It will be inter-
esting to see if the Senate Republicans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.008 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S489
January 23, 2019
will support or oppose this measure,
which is essentially one they wrote. I
hope they will take yes for an answer
and vote with all of us to reopen the
government and to begin serious,
thoughtful, and principled discussions
on ways we can improve borders and
many other topics.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
tomorrow the Senate will vote on the
plan put forward by President Trump
to reopen the closed portions of the
Federal Government right away, in-
crease security on our southern border,
deliver disaster recovery funding, and
address some outstanding immigration
issues.
By way of reminder, this is a com-
promise measure that was carefully de-
signed to include the kinds of ideas
Democrats have been eager to support,
including very recently. First and fore-
most, the legislation would end this
partial shutdown and bring all parts of
the Federal Government back online
for the American people. Normal oper-
ations would resume. Federal workers
would receive backpay and continue to
be paid. This could happen quickly.
The bill also takes a compromise ap-
proach to the underlying disagreement
that brought us to this point. It would
fully fund the border security priorities
identified by the men and women actu-
ally working on the ground: invest-
ments in surveillance and security
technologies, in recruiting and training
new Border Patrol agents, and, yes, ad-
ditional funding for physical barriers
like the walls and fences which Demo-
cratic Senators used to boast about
voting for and which President
Obama’s administration bragged about
building.
Of course, the reality of a divided
government is that negotiations do not
leave either side with their perfect
plan. So the President went out of his
way to include additional items that
have been priority areas for Demo-
crats. For example, the proposal would
grant 3-year lawful status for certain
currently enrolled DACA recipients
and individuals under TPS. Finally,
the White House proposal also includes
all seven of our regular order appro-
priations bills, the product of bipar-
tisan work in this body and in the
House throughout last year.
So the President’s compromise offer
should command serious consideration
in both Houses of Congress. On day 33
of this partial government shutdown,
we have before us a bill to immediately
reopen the Federal Government, de-
liver all remaining full-year appropria-
tions measures, support disaster recov-
ery efforts, fully fund comprehensive
border security priorities, and address
some outstanding immigration issues.
It is hard to think of a good reason to
oppose this, but my Democratic friends
are trying to come up with some-
thing—anything—to justify prolonging
the stalemate. I have a great deal of re-
spect for my friends across the aisle,
but honestly this is getting downright
silly—downright silly.
Yesterday the Democratic leader an-
nounced that he was denouncing Presi-
dent Trump’s proposal because ‘‘there
were no serious negotiations with any
Democrat.’’ It would appear my friend
is offended that he wasn’t consulted
while this compromise was under con-
struction. So let’s stop and think about
that for a minute.
For days—weeks now—the American
people have seen the Democratic leader
and the Speaker of the House make a
public strategy out of refusing to nego-
tiate. That has been their position;
that we will not negotiate.
They have said it publicly. They have
announced they are not interested in a
negotiated solution to this impasse,
not interested in meeting the President
halfway on immigration policy or any-
thing else, happy to keep the govern-
ment closed unless and until everyone
agrees to move forward in their pre-
ferred manner with no concessions and
nothing for border security.
Now, that has been the Democrats’
public stance. Our friends across the
aisle have said repeatedly that they
have no intention to negotiate out of
the stalemate. The Speaker of the
House joked that she would allow $1—
$1—for physical barriers like wall fenc-
ing. That is why they have turned
away from multiple opportunities to
negotiate at the White House in recent
weeks.
So my friend across the aisle is at-
tempting quite the two-step here.
First, the Democratic leader repeat-
edly said he wasn’t interested in any
talks at this point, but then when
President Trump puts forward a pro-
posal to move us forward, my colleague
complains he wasn’t consulted.
Well, the President and the American
people are picking up on the strange-
ness of the Democratic leader’s strat-
egy of refusing to even negotiate. Here
is one headline from a newspaper edi-
torial that echoes this growing na-
tional sentiment. Here is what he said:
‘‘Trump made an offer—it’s time for
Democrats to start negotiating.’’
This is from the Washington Post—
the Washington Post:
[T]o refuse even to talk until the govern-
ment reopens does no favors to sidelined fed-
eral workers.
[A] measure of statesmanship for a mem-
ber of Congress now is the ability to accept
some disappointments, and shrug off the in-
evitable attacks from the purists.
There are signs that Democratic
Members in both Chambers are start-
ing to come to the same conclusion,
starting to reject their leaders’ refusal
to even negotiate.
Here is what a few of our Democratic
colleagues in the Senate have said in
the last few days:
I personally don’t think a border wall is in
and of itself immoral.
Here is another:
Everybody is for border security. . . .
There are places a wall makes sense.
Here are a few of our Democratic col-
leagues over in the House:
If we don’t compromise, the American peo-
ple are the ones who get hurt.
Another said:
If I had the opportunity to vote for some
sort of deal, I would.
Another said:
There is common ground. . . . We do have
to figure out how to secure our borders.
Even Speaker PELOSI’s own House
majority leader broke completely with
her extreme position in a television
interview just yesterday. When asked if
he would personally be open to wall
funding, Congressman HOYER replied:
Look, I think physical barriers are part of
the solution.
That is the majority leader of the
House of Representatives.
When the news anchor pressed him
on Speaker PELOSI’s statement that a
wall is immoral, Majority Leader
Hoyer replied:
It depends on what a wall is used for,
whether it’s moral or immoral. If it is pro-
tecting people, it is moral. That is not the
issue.
He went on:
We want to make sure that people who
come into the United States are authorized
to do so. . . . We are for border security and
I think we can get there.
So more and more Democrats seem
to be coming to the same collusion as
the rest of us. It is time to make a
deal—time to make a deal.
Fortunately, a deal is on the table. It
is a deal for everyone who would rather
reopen the government, invest in bor-
der security, and secure more certainty
for DACA recipients than sacrifice all
that for the sake of this radical new
position that physical barriers, like
walls or fencing, are inherently im-
moral. So the President has produced a
fair compromise that pairs full-year
government funding with immigration
policy priorities from both sides.
Enough political spite—enough.
Enough showboating for ‘‘the Resist-
ance.’’ Enough refusing to join in talks
and then complaining you weren’t con-
sulted. Our Federal workforce and the
American people deserve a whole lot
better than this.
I can’t believe the bulk of our Demo-
cratic colleagues really see opposing
the President as more important—
more important—to their constituents
than restoring full government func-
tion, paying our Federal employees, se-
curing the border, and more certainty
for the DACA population.
When we vote on the President’s plan
tomorrow, we will see what each Sen-
ator decides to prioritize.
COVINGTON CATHOLIC HIGH SCHOOL
Madam President, on one final and
totally different matter, I need to say
a few words about something that took
place this past weekend.
Last week, Kentuckians of all ages
traveled to our Nation’s Capital to ex-
ercise our fundamental American
rights to peacefully assemble and peti-
tion the government.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.009 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S490 January 23, 2019
Unfortunately for the students of
Covington Catholic High School, their
participation has resulted in threats on
their lives.
Far-left activists and members of the
national and State media isolated a
very few seconds of video footage from
any shred of context, and many decided
it was time to attack and denigrate
these young people.
Because of what some highly par-
tisan observers thought—thought—
they saw in a few seconds of confusing
video, these kids, their school, and
their families were met with a deluge—
a virtual deluge—of partisan vitriol
and hatred from people who never met
them and had no idea what had taken
place. Some prominent figures even
used this pile-on to propose curtailing
the First Amendment for groups with
whom they disagree, even targeting the
students’ hats.
How quickly some seem to forget
why the Framers insisted on these pro-
tections in the first place.
In a matter of hours, these students
were tried, convicted, and sentenced by
the media, where accuracy is irrelevant
and the presumption of innocence does
not exist. To their credit, some apolo-
gized for their commentary upon learn-
ing more, but by that point too much
damage had already been done.
Because of the startling death
threats against these students and
their families, Covington Catholic—
which, by the way, is in Kentucky—was
closed yesterday. The school’s adminis-
tration is working closely with law en-
forcement, but it is unclear when any
sense of normalcy might return.
This time, it is families in my home
State who are paying the price for ex-
ercising their freedoms. Sadly, this
kind of fact-free rush to judgment is
becoming an all-too-often occurrence.
If we can learn anything from this
weekend, here is what I hope it is:
When the rush for headlines takes prec-
edence over the facts, mistakes are
made, and our rights as Americans are
put at risk. This trend is particularly
troubling when young people are in-
volved.
SIGNING AUTHORITY
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent that the Senior Senator from
Alaska be authorized to sign duly en-
rolled bills or joint resolutions today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 21
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 5, H.R. 21, mak-
ing appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes. I further ask that the
bill be considered read a third time and
passed and the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. MCCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I rise
to discuss the effects of the Federal
Government shutdown. I have given a
number of floor speeches about the ef-
fects of the shutdown on Federal em-
ployees and their families. I heard the
Presiding Officer give a similar speech
about the effects on the Coast Guard in
Kodiak, AK, the other day. I have also
talked about the effect of the shutdown
on American citizens who depend upon
the services of Agencies that have been
shuttered or dramatically reduced in
capacity.
Today I want to talk about some-
thing different. I want to talk about
the effect of the shutdown on American
businesses, especially small businesses.
Over the past month, I have had nu-
merous conversations with business
owners who tell me how this shutdown
has hurt them, and, no surprise, eco-
nomic analysts have indicated that the
shutdown is having a massive effect on
the U.S. economy.
S&P, for example, has concluded that
the shutdown will cost the United
States more than $6 billion by week’s
end, a little bit over 1 month in.
President Trump’s chief economic
adviser, Kevin Hassett, said that a
zero-percent growth rate is possible be-
cause of the shutdown.
His quote in an article dated January
23:
If [the shutdown] extended for a whole
quarter and given the fact that the first
quarter tends to be low because of residual
seasonality, then you could end up with a
number close to zero in the first quarter.
We are now more than 1 month into
the shutdown, and this economic effect
is very real.
I just returned this morning from a
discussion with businesses in Loudoun
County, VA, which is sort of in the
western outer suburbs of Washington,
and here is what these businesses told
me:
A conference hotel in Loudoun whose
bookings in the first quarter are down
50 percent from the same quarter last
year, and because they had such a
strong year last year, they said they
were projecting for increases this year,
so their bookings are down 70 percent
from what they had projected for the
first quarter of 2019.
When they lose revenue because of
lost bookings, that affects their ability
to hire people. It also affects their pur-
chase of supplies from area suppliers.
They say they have a HIVA practice—
Hire Virginia—and what did they call
the other one—a SUVA practice, Sup-
plies from Virginia. They try to buy all
of their supplies and hire all of their
people from Virginia, and so the re-
duced bookings are having a direct ef-
fect on other businesses and individ-
uals as well.
A local chamber of commerce, with
1,200 members who are suffering in a
variety of ways, but the chamber presi-
dent pointed out to me that 300 mem-
bers are nonprofits—nonprofits which
are seeing reduced contributions be-
cause of the shutdown and people hav-
ing less income but also increased de-
mands for services.
Local restaurants whose revenues are
down 20 to 30 percent—that reduction
in revenue, which is fewer people com-
ing in or people coming in and spending
less, affects hiring and it affects their
payments to local suppliers, thus hav-
ing a second-order effect on other busi-
nesses.
Restaurants are reporting that they
are seeing a big uptick in Federal em-
ployees applying for part-time work at
their restaurants, which they have a
hard time providing because their reve-
nues are down and fewer customers are
coming in.
Many government contracting firms
in Northern Virginia—often started
and operated by veterans—whose em-
ployees are furloughed or working
fewer hours, thereby affecting the prof-
itability of their businesses, most said
they are trying to continue to pay
their employees even though they are
not working, even though they are not
bringing in revenue, which is affecting
profitability and eventually the viabil-
ity of the very businesses themselves.
The contractors are talking about
how they are starting to lose employ-
ees in a tight labor market to other
businesses that are not dependent upon
government contracts.
Loudoun is the third most popular
tourism destination in Virginia out of
134 cities and counties. I did not know
that until I was informed of it by a
proud operator of the Loudoun Tour-
ism Department today, but they are
seeing dramatically reduced attend-
ance at any tourism site, from res-
taurants to hotels and bars, to muse-
ums and all kinds of other historic
sites in Loudoun.
Here is one that was interesting, and
it dovetails with a discourse, a speech
given by the Presiding Officer on the
floor a few days ago—a local micro-
brewery. A local microbrewery said,
first, sales are down due to people los-
ing salaries, and sales being down af-
fects their employment, but they are
also unable to launch new product
lines. New product lines require an ap-
proval by a Department of the Federal
Government to approve that a new
product line is offered. There are 7,000
microbreweries in the United States,
and they all need approval from this
Federal Agency, the TTB, when they
want to offer a new product line.
The owner of Old Ox Brewery told
me: We set it up months in advance.
This was going to be the March release.
Normally, it would take about 2 weeks
from an application. This Agency is
really pretty prompt. They get back
with you quickly, and they tend to ap-
prove quickly, but he said: I have two
problems with the Agency right now.
They are shuttered so they can’t ap-
prove the product lines I have devel-
oped and I wanted to brew for March. I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S491
January 23, 2019
can’t brew them now if I can’t sell
them. That means products I promised
not only in-house at our brewery but to
grocery stores and restaurants that I
promised, I can’t brew. He said: I know
this Agency, when they finally come
back with a reopening, with 7,000 brew-
eries just like mine having filed with
them, the backlog is going to mean
they are not going to be able to re-
spond in 2 weeks. It is going to take
them significantly longer.
If I might read a letter—this is not
from the Old Ox Brewery, where I was
this morning, but another brewery in
Alexandria, VA:
Dear Senator Kaine,
Here is a summary of the negative effects
the government shutdown is having on our
small business in Alexandria, VA.
The Alcohol & Tobacco Tax & Trade Bu-
reau (TTB) has stopped reviewing recipes and
labels. . . . It affects our entire operation,
and damages our revenue stream, which re-
lies on new beers in the market.
It also hurts our employees, some of whom
are paid on commission from the sale of our
beer.
Upstream in our supply chain, it nega-
tively affects our farmers who provide our
grain, as well as our hop growers and malt
suppliers. It also hurts our other suppliers,
such as our label printers and box manufac-
turers.
Downstream, it hurts our distributors and
retailers because they don’t have our new
beers to sell [and ultimately affects cus-
tomers].
We have a pending Small Business Admin-
istration loan for our new bottling equip-
ment. The SBA has closed and we cannot
close on this loan until the shutdown is over.
The brewery I was at this morning—
the Old Ox Brewery—was a little bit
ahead of Port City in the process. They
got a loan to renovate a new facility in
Middleburg, VA, which they have pur-
chased and renovated, but they can’t
get it open until the TTB comes out
and does the inspection of the brewery
equipment.
He said: I invested, and I am paying,
but I am not able to bring in any rev-
enue, and I have no idea when I am
going to be able to bring in revenue.
Traditionally opening a new facility
requires a TTB approval first, and you
then go to the State to get permission
to open the facility.
He said: Am I looking at 90 days? Am
I looking at 4 months of paying for this
facility without being able to bring in
any revenue for it?
This same challenge as was indicated
in the letter from Port City affects not
only breweries but wineries. Loudoun
County has a lot of farm wineries.
One owner of a local winery came.
This is a small operation. They started
the winery so they could preserve the
family farm and not have to sell it to
developers.
A lot of our small family farms get
turned into subdivisions unless the
family who operates the farm can find
a productive way to make a small acre-
age profitable.
In 2002, this family, who had been in
farming for generations, decided: We
don’t want to sell for a subdivision.
The way we will try to be profitable is
to operate a farm winery.
The same Agency, the TTB, is
charged with approving their product
and also labels. They have done their
grape harvest, and they booked time at
the local bottling plant in March to
take all of the wine and put it in bot-
tles with labels affixed, but they can’t
get the labels approved. They have all
their product, and they have booked
time at a facility that starts in a very
few weeks, but there would be no rea-
son to use the bottling facility to put
wine in bottles with no labels on them.
They couldn’t sell it. The Agency that
is required to approve labels is shut-
tered. They don’t know what they are
going to do.
A 10-person, small family business—
maybe this spoke to me because I grew
up in a house with a small business
where, in a good year, there would be
eight employees, and in a bad year,
there would be five, plus three teenage
boys and my mother. So this business
was a lot like my own family’s experi-
ence in size. They distribute janitorial
supplies to customers, such as the
Smithsonian. The Smithsonian oper-
ations are closed. They also distribute
janitorial supplies to WMATA, their
largest customer.
WMATA is open. WMATA’s Federal
revenues are still coming in, but
WMATA also relies on the farebox rev-
enue. WMATA is down $400,000 a day
because, with Federal employees fur-
loughed, huge numbers of people who
normally ride the Metro Monday to
Friday aren’t.
That $400,000-a-day hit on WMATA
has not yet affected this business—he
was careful to point that out—but with
the Smithsonian shut and WMATA af-
fected, he is worried about when he will
see his 10-person business affected.
There is deep concern by area busi-
nesses in this part of Loudoun, which is
very close to Dulles, about the effect of
the shutdown on TSA workers and air
traffic controllers, as would be the case
in Alaska, where air travel is critical.
It would probably be air or snowmobile
for many people living in Alaska. In
Virginia, air travel is critical. Any-
thing that affects commercial air poses
huge jeopardy on people’s access and
on the local economy.
This one was interesting—a local
consignment shop. I was like, well, how
are you affected by the shutdown? It is
a consignment shop that is fairly nota-
ble and has won awards for being one of
the best small businesses in the coun-
ty. They talk about how their business
is dramatically affected by the shut-
down. They see it every day. More Fed-
eral employees are bringing in personal
items to try to submit to consignment
because to make do, they need to sell
personal items they might not other-
wise want to. Also, there are fewer peo-
ple coming in to buy the items that are
available in the consignment shop be-
cause there is less discretionary in-
come. This shop has reduced its own
employees’ hours by 20 percent.
A local small business development
center—this is kind of a community
center, like an incubator for small
business. It is funded through SBA. It
serves 300 startup businesses a year.
They are unable to operate. They have
some local funds. They can see clear to
March, but they don’t know whether
they can stay open thereafter due to no
Federal funding. These small business
centers operate around the country.
One of the things they do is help busi-
nesses like Port City get small busi-
ness loans. They can’t do that now be-
cause there are no business loans being
made.
A Federal contractor who is cur-
rently unaffected because their con-
tracts are with DOD Agencies had an
expansion plan to go out and work with
other Agencies that are shuttered by
the shutdown; thus they cannot move
forward on the expansion plan.
Finally, county government officials
who were at the meeting have now had
to provide emergency funding for local
food banks and for free public transpor-
tation for affected Federal employees
and other emergency services as well.
That wasn’t what they thought they
would need to be doing with the budget
they had planned for. The fiscal year
began July 1. They hadn’t put it into
the budget, but they are having to cob-
ble together ways to serve the Federal
employees and their families who are
affected.
There are so many other stories like
this that I heard around Virginia. One
that stuck with me in particular was a
local dentist commenting that so many
patients are canceling appointments
because of their concerns about inabil-
ity to pay copays or buy medications.
Hopefully, these are postponements
and not cancellations. Obviously, it is
not good for people’s health and not
good for the small business this dentist
operates.
We do have a solution to this that
the Senate will take up tomorrow. I am
heartened by the fact that we will have
an opportunity tomorrow to vote on a
solution. I think we should vote to
open government until February 8.
That is not a lot of time. From tomor-
row, it will be 15 days. Then we should
engage immediately in an effort to
consider, debate, amend, and vote upon
the proposal the President introduced
through the majority leader yesterday.
I listened to the majority leader’s
comments before I spoke, and he said a
deal was on the table. As I saw Repub-
licans—for example, my colleague from
Oklahoma—describe the deal on Sun-
day during one of the television
shows—he said: It is the President’s
opening proposal. It is meant to inspire
constructive dialogue.
In that sense, I agree. It is a proposal
to inspire constructive dialogue. The
four elements of the President’s pro-
posal—border security, the temporary
protected status program, the DACA
Program, asylum processes, and the
bases for receiving asylum—are very
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.012 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S492 January 23, 2019
legitimate discussions on which I be-
lieve we can find a bipartisan com-
promise.
We will have a vote on that proposal
tomorrow, but it will not be a proposal
that is about compromise—it will be an
up-or-down vote. Do you accept the
President’s proposal without the oppor-
tunity to hear its justification, with-
out the opportunity to offer an amend-
ment? Take it or leave it. Under those
circumstances, it is very hard to say
that is a constructive debate or dia-
logue; however, we have the oppor-
tunity to do that.
I believe that if we vote to open gov-
ernment through February 8—15 days—
the Senate should, in this humble Sen-
ator’s view, put that bill in committee
next week. There should be an adminis-
tration explanation of the pieces of the
bill, with the members of the relevant
committees being able to ask ques-
tions. For example, on the TPS pro-
posal, you propose to restore TPS for 4
of the 10 affected countries but not the
other 6. Why is that? Is there some rea-
son for that, or can we explore it?
I think those questions need to be
asked, and they need to be answered.
There may be a reason there. There
may be a better approach there.
Then the committee should be able
to move—again, in my opinion; I am
not on either of the relevant commit-
tees, Appropriations or Judiciary, but
with Republican majorities and Repub-
lican chairs, I believe this could be
done—move to a markup of the bill a
few days or 2 days after the explana-
tory discussion. The bill could then be
on the floor the following week, before
February 8, where we could do the
same thing and have the opportunity
to try to make the bill as strong as it
can be, as bipartisan as it can be be-
cause it would need to be to have a re-
alistic chance of passing in the House.
I do agree with the majority leader—
there is now a proposal on the table. It
is a proposal that is worthy of discus-
sion. I have some ideas about ways to
make it better, and I bet virtually
every Member—Republican and Demo-
cratic—in the Chamber would have
ideas as well. But if we are going to
take it seriously, let’s take the time to
take it seriously.
I urge my colleagues to vote yes on
one of the votes we will take tomor-
row, which would reopen government
for 15 days while we engage earnestly
with the President’s proposal. I deeply
believe that if we undertake that kind
of focused effort without being pulled
away because of the needs of constitu-
ents affected by the shutdown, we can
be focused and find an answer.
The last thing I will say before I
yield the floor is this. Some would say:
Why don’t you negotiate while the
shutdown is in place?
If there was a hurricane in Virginia
Beach, everybody in this Chamber
would understand that I wasn’t here; I
was in Virginia Beach dealing with
people who were hurting. This is a hur-
ricane. When it affects the livelihood of
so many Virginians who are hurting
deeply, I am out every day with people
who are hurting. In the middle of a
hurricane, no one would fault me for
being in Virginia Beach or a Florida
Senator from being in Florida trying to
comfort people who are hurting. No-
body would say: Why aren’t you back
here having around-the-clock negotia-
tions on something?
For this Senator, the top priority I
have every day is trying to be out with
people who are hurting and trying to
provide them with answers and some
assurance that we can move forward. If
we can get government open for 15
days, we can be here around the clock,
and we can find a solution to this. I am
confident we can. I ask my colleagues
to join me in that when we have that
vote.
With that, Madam President, I yield
the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President,
government shutdowns, regardless of
which party controls Congress or the
White House, are always harmful to
Federal employees and their families,
who struggle to pay their bills without
paychecks, to Americans who need help
from closed government Agencies, and
to our economy, which is damaged by
the decline in consumer spending and
consumer confidence. Ironically, they
also always end up costing taxpayers
more money than if government had
been funded on time. That is why I
have always worked to end shutdowns.
In 2013, for example, I convened a bi-
partisan group, of which the Presiding
Officer was the very first member, that
produced the plan that led to the re-
opening of government after a 16-day
shutdown.
During the past month, I have had
numerous discussions with colleagues
on both sides of the aisle, as well as
with White House officials, on what we
can do to reopen government. At the
same time, I have been working to
mitigate the impacts of this shutdown
as much as possible for the hundreds of
thousands of Federal employees and
their families. These families are being
unfairly and seriously harmed, and
they have no idea when they will re-
ceive their next paycheck.
Right around Christmas, I worked
closely with the White House to ensure
that the Coast Guard received pay for
their work prior to the shutdown, when
an anomaly in the pay system put
their paychecks at risk. In addition,
Democratic Senator BEN CARDIN and I
sponsored a bill to guarantee backpay
to Federal workers affected by the
shutdown. Our legislation was passed
by both chambers and was signed into
law by the President.
I have also joined Senator RON JOHN-
SON from Wisconsin in introducing the
Shutdown Fairness Act, which would
ensure that Federal workers who are
deemed essential and required to come
to work each day are paid on time de-
spite the partial government shutdown.
It is simply not fair to force employees
to work and not pay them, and I hope
that this bill, too, will become law.
As the Presiding Officer is well
aware, after 33 days—the longest shut-
down in history—it is long overdue for
all sides to come together to engage in
constructive debate and compromise to
end this standoff. Shutdowns represent
the ultimate failure to govern and
should never be used as a weapon to
achieve an outcome.
Here is what does not reopen govern-
ment. Political ads do not end shut-
downs. Overheated and inflammatory
statements do not end shutdowns. An
unwillingness to budge and a lack of
specific proposals do not end shut-
downs. What will end this shutdown?
Remembering the real harm that this
shutdown is causing, putting specific
proposals on the table so that the ad-
ministration and Republicans and
Democrats in both the Senate and the
House can see signs of good faith and
compromise, voting on specific pro-
posals and trying to get to yes—that is
what is necessary to end shutdowns.
Finally, over the weekend, the Presi-
dent submitted a plan to end the shut-
down, which the Senate will consider
tomorrow. His legislative package
avoids the chicken-and-egg dilemma of
whether we should reopen government
first or whether border security meas-
ures should be considered first. It com-
bines all of those issues in one package
that would reopen government,
strengthen the security of our borders,
change some immigration rules for the
better and some, in my judgment, for
the worse, and provide disaster relief
funding. The administration’s package
would reopen government for 800,000
Federal employees, including hundreds
of thousands who work at the FBI, the
TSA, Border Patrol, Coast Guard, and
the DEA, who have been working with-
out pay to protect us from terrorists,
drug cartels, and other criminals. It
provides disaster funding to address
devastating hurricanes, wildfires,
earthquakes, and volcanoes. The bill
also makes border security invest-
ments and includes some immigration
changes.
It is important to note that all of the
remaining appropriations bills are in-
corporated into this package, and,
thus, this bill would fully reopen gov-
ernment until September 30, the end of
the fiscal year.
I would also note that these seven
bills either passed this Chamber or the
Appropriations Committee last year
with widespread bipartisan support.
The Transportation, Housing, and
Urban Development bill that I offered
with my good friend and colleague Sen-
ator JACK REED, the ranking member,
is a great example. At its core, this is
a bill that creates jobs, strengthens
communities, improves our infrastruc-
ture, and helps low-income families,
veterans, seniors, and those who are
homeless with their housing needs.
This bill passed the Senate in August
by an overwhelming vote of 92 to 6 as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.014 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S493
January 23, 2019
part of a four-bill package. It should be
law.
This shutdown is harming low-in-
come families and seniors across the
country. Funds for housing repairs and
disaster recovery have been stopped
from being allocated to areas of crit-
ical need. Public housing agencies and
multifamily property owners in Maine
and across the country are scrambling
to line up short-term loans and other
financing to try to fill the gap caused
by a lack of HUD funding.
Since the shutdown began, nearly
42,000 households, most of which are
comprised of low-income seniors or dis-
abled individuals, have not had their
rental assistance renewed, and millions
more are at risk the longer the shut-
down continues.
Just this morning, the city of Port-
land contacted me to express alarm
over the 1,700 housing vouchers serving
3,500 people who will be affected on
March 1. Statewide, that number is in
the vicinity of 10,500 vouchers, affect-
ing many thousands more vulnerable
individuals and families.
The problems, unfortunately, go well
beyond HUD housing vouchers. Because
most HUD staff have been furloughed,
HUD has been unable to correct com-
puter errors that are keeping local
shelters and small nonprofit groups
across the country that assist the
homeless and victims of domestic vio-
lence from accessing their grants.
Maine’s eight domestic violence shel-
ters are about 75 percent funded by the
Federal Government. If this shutdown
continues, how can they continue to
serve the women and children who are
escaping abuse and violence?
While there is never a good time of
the year to be at risk of losing one’s
housing or to be unable to find a shel-
ter if one finds oneself homeless or to
be able to escape domestic violence and
abuse, the middle of the winter is an
especially cruel time to face a housing
crisis.
The shutdown is also challenging for
our Nation’s air traffic controllers,
who remain on the job, dedicated to
the safety of every flight, despite miss-
ing paychecks. Our Nation’s air traffic
controllers and safety professionals
work in a system that has no room for
error. Regrettably, they are now endur-
ing financial strain in jobs that are al-
ready very stressful.
So many other important functions
of the Federal Government—operating
our national parks and the tourism
they support, ensuring the safety of
the food that we eat, preventing hun-
ger, avoiding drug shortages, proc-
essing tax refunds, addressing the
opioid epidemic, providing access to
loan guarantees for small businesses
and homeowners—all would be ad-
dressed by reopening government.
Let me provide just a few examples
from my State of Maine. I have heard
from physicians in Portland about
emergency shortages of critical drugs.
We cannot reach the FDA, which is
where we would normally turn for as-
sistance because of the furloughs. In-
stead, we are contacting the manufac-
turers to try to get help.
A small Maine-owned architecture
and engineering business in Western
Maine has contracts with 10 Federal
Agencies. It will very soon not have
enough work for its employees because
it is not being paid by these Agencies.
A smoked salmon facility in Hancock,
ME, cannot operate because it lacks a
vital certificate from the FDA. Seniors
at the Maine Maritime Academy are
unable to take their licensing exams,
which will delay their job searches sig-
nificantly, and current merchant mari-
ners who need to renew their licensees
cannot do so.
The Coast Guard, which is so impor-
tant to my State and to the State of
the Presiding Officer, is not being paid,
and yet its members are required to
work to perform absolutely vital tasks,
and they cannot be absent to take on
another job to pay the bills.
Of course, like many of my col-
leagues, I have talked with so many
TSA employees in Bangor and in Port-
land who are having difficulties paying
their bills, having to take out loans or
rely on family or friends, and yet they
are so devoted to their important mis-
sion that they show up for work day
after day, despite not being paid.
In addition to reopening government,
the legislation also includes invest-
ments and policies to lessen the prob-
lems at our southern border. Ninety
percent of the heroin that is flooding
into this country is coming from Mex-
ico, some through legal ports of entry
that lack the technology to detect
these drugs and some smuggled across
the border outside of ports of entry.
Physical barriers have proven to be
an effective deterrent in many areas
where they have been built, such as
San Diego and El Paso. That is why
Congress and two previous administra-
tions, on a bipartisan basis, authorized
and built more than 600 miles of walls,
fences, and other barriers by January
2017, an often overlooked fact.
In fact, to listen to this debate, you
would think that there were no bar-
riers along our southern border, and
that is not true. There are more than
600 miles of physical barriers. In some
places, they don’t make sense, but in
some places, they have proven to be an
effective deterrent. Republicans and
Democrats voted to support the con-
struction of these physical barriers in
2006.
As recently as last June, the Senate
Appropriations Committee passed—
again, on a bipartisan basis—a Home-
land Security funding bill that would
have provided the money for additional
physical barriers at the border. The
package before us that we will vote on
tomorrow would supplement this exist-
ing infrastructure by providing funding
for an additional 234 miles of barriers
at high-priority locations identified by
the experts at Customs and Border Pa-
trol.
We already have more than 650 miles
of physical barriers. What this bill
would provide is funding for 234 addi-
tional miles of fences, walls, and other
kinds of physical barriers that have
been specifically identified as needed
by the experts at Customs and Border
Patrol.
The bill would also provide $800 mil-
lion to meet the urgent humanitarian
needs of those who are crossing the
border, as well as additional funding
for new Border Patrol agents, immigra-
tion judges, and Customs officers.
Again, you rarely hear any discussion
that this package includes $800 million
for humanitarian assistance, as well as
funding for personnel, for technology,
for K–9, and for sensors. This has to be
a multipronged approach to be effec-
tive.
The package also takes some prelimi-
nary steps to alter our broken immi-
gration system. We need to focus on
the Dreamer population, those young
people who were brought to this coun-
try by a parent usually at a very young
age.
I so remember a conversation I had
with a Dreamer who lives in Portland,
ME, and attends the University of
Southern Maine. He was brought to
this country by his parents when he
was age 4. He had no idea that he was
not an American. He thought he was
born in Portland and had lived his
whole life there. It was only when he
was going to apply for his driver’s li-
cense that his parents told him the
truth. The fact is, like so many other
Dreamers, this young man has known
no other country but America.
Many of the Dreamers are going to
school, working, serving in the mili-
tary, or otherwise contributing to our
country. This legislation does not go as
far as I would like, but it would at
least provide relief for 3 years to the
700,000 young immigrants who are en-
rolled in the Deferred Action for Child-
hood Arrivals Program, or DACA Pro-
gram. Frankly, I would prefer giving
these young people a path to citizen-
ship, provided that they have abided by
and continue to abide by our laws.
We also need to help those legally re-
ceiving temporary protected status,
the so-called TPS population. Many of
these immigrants have been in the
United States for years—even dec-
ades—working hard, creating jobs, and
becoming established and valued mem-
bers of their communities.
On the other hand, some of the asy-
lum changes proposed in the Presi-
dent’s bill are problematic. Allowing
people to apply for asylum in their
home countries appears to me to be a
good idea, but raising the bar to qual-
ify for asylum needs much more study.
The plan put forth by President
Trump is by no means ideal, but it
would result in the reopening of gov-
ernment—my priority—and the out-
lines of a compromise are before us. I
urge my Democratic colleagues to also
put forth a specific plan that addresses
all of these issues.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.016 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S494 January 23, 2019
Compromise is not a sign of weak-
ness. It is a sign of strength, particu-
larly when hundreds of thousands of
families are being harmed.
The administration and Senate Re-
publicans and Democrats have the op-
portunity to resolve the stalemate be-
fore 800,000 Federal workers and their
families—dedicated public servants—
miss yet another paycheck, and our
economy is further damaged. Shut-
downs harm too many innocent Fed-
eral employees and their families as
well as vulnerable citizens, home-
owners, small businesses, and rural
communities. This shutdown must end.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, it is
day 33 of this dangerous and unneces-
sary government shutdown.
Let me share with my colleagues
that this morning, I stopped by an
IBEW office that was set up by the
Maryland Food Bank. We are very
proud to have the Maryland Food Bank
in Maryland. It provides the necessary
food for hungry Marylanders who go
through tough times and can’t get
enough food for their families. I don’t
think we ever thought it would have to
set up a special location for Federal
workers and for those who are im-
pacted because of a Federal shutdown,
but it is exactly what it did today. I
am very proud of those at the Mary-
land Food Bank. I thank them for their
services to the people of our State.
They have now been able to provide
basic food to patriotic Federal workers
who are not getting their paychecks.
This will be the second pay period
this week for which Federal workers’
pay stubs will read ‘‘zero’’ for the work
they will have done. Of the over 800,000
Federal workers, 30 percent are vet-
erans. They are patriotic Americans
who show up every day to do work—to
keep us safe, to deal with our national
security, to deal with our food safety.
The list goes on and on and on. They
are showing up today and working on
the 33rd day. They are being asked to
carry out their work with their having
no prospects of getting paid in the near
future. These are patriotic Americans.
The number is more than 800,000. We
also have contract workers who get
contracts from the government. Many
of these contractors employ low-wage
workers to do basic work for the gov-
ernment. These workers are not get-
ting paid.
We have small businesses that depend
upon contracts that are not being ful-
filled right now because of the govern-
ment shutdown. They are laying off
workers.
Then we have the general impact on
our economy. It is projected that we
are going to lose all of our economic
growth, which will slow down and cre-
ate more unemployment in America.
All of that is happening because of
this shutdown. It is in our national se-
curity interest to end this dangerous
shutdown. The FBI is on shutdown,
meaning many of its workers are not
even being brought in, and those who
are being brought in are having a dif-
ficult time doing their jobs. On Thurs-
day, the FBI Agents Association re-
leased a petition that describes the
shutdown as a matter of national secu-
rity. It urges leaders in Washington to
reopen the government.
‘‘On Friday, January 11, 2019, FBI
Agents will not be paid due to the par-
tial government shutdown, but we will
continue our work protecting our na-
tion,’’ the petition reads. ‘‘We urge our
elected representatives to fund the De-
partment of Justice . . . and the FBI
because financial security is a matter
of national security.’’
My colleagues, these are people who
go to work every day to keep us safe,
and we are asking them to do that
without their having a full complement
of supporting workers and to do it
without being paid.
Recently, I met with our airport se-
curity people—the TSA and others—
who are charged with keeping our air-
ports safe. They are responsible for air
traffic safety. They asked me how they
can do their work when they are dis-
tracted. How are they going to pay
their bills? They also don’t have the
full complement of support staff nec-
essary. That is what it is at risk.
We know security is being com-
promised in our Federal Prison Sys-
tem. On Friday, prison guard Brian
Shoemaker was patrolling the halls of
Lee penitentiary in Southwestern Vir-
ginia when an inmate tried to squeeze
past him into a restricted area. Sec-
onds after Shoemaker told the prisoner
to turn around, the inmate lunged at
him and punched him in his shoulder.
Mr. Shoemaker did not sustain a major
injury, but it did not escape him that
he was working without a paycheck at
one of the most dangerous Federal jobs
in America during this partial govern-
ment shutdown. Fears for his and other
prison staff members’ safety are esca-
lating as 16-hour shifts become routine
and as a growing number of guards call
in sick in protest and work side jobs to
pay their bills.
‘‘I don’t think we should be subjected
to that kind of thing and not receive a
paycheck,’’ said Shoemaker, age 48, a
17-year veteran of Lee penitentiary.
‘‘I’m walking in here and doing my job
every day, and it’s very dangerous.’’
Mr. Shoemaker is one of 36,000 Fed-
eral prison workers who is deemed to
be an essential employee by the U.S.
Government, which means he is ex-
pected to report for work during the
shutdown even though he will not get
paid until the government reopens. He
has worked 33 days without pay.
Even though these employees are
supposed to work, union officials at 10
prisons, including Lee, who were
reached by the Washington Post, say
the number of employees who are not
showing up for work has at least dou-
bled since the shutdown began. This
cannot continue.
As a result, those who are showing up
are routinely working double shifts,
correctional officers and other prison
staff members say. Secretaries, jani-
tors, and teachers are filling in for ab-
sent officers. There is at least one pris-
on—Hazelton Federal Correctional
Complex in West Virginia—at which
the number of assaults on officers has
increased since the shutdown, accord-
ing to a union official there.
‘‘There has been a rise in people call-
ing in sick and taking leave during the
shutdown,’’ said Richard Heldreth, the
local union president at the Hazelton
prison. ‘‘The staff who are showing up
are dealing with this violence, long
hours and extra overtime with the un-
certainty of when we will be com-
pensated.’’
The list goes on.
I had a chance to meet with some of
our Coast Guard workers this morning.
The Coast Guard is in a partial shut-
down. Here is one of the critical na-
tional security Agencies of this Nation
that is not working at its full strength.
We have heard the President talk
about border security. He has com-
promised border security by not allow-
ing Homeland Security to be fully
operational—to have all of its capac-
ity—and its workers to be paid to do
their work.
Research is being very badly hurt as
a result of this shutdown. A coalition
of more than 40 patient and healthcare
provider groups is warning about the
effects of the government shutdown on
the FDA. This marks the first time ad-
vocacy organizations have weighed in
on the more than month-long lapse in
appropriations.
‘‘We fear that this continued shut-
down not only puts the current health
and safety of Americans’ safety at risk,
but has begun to put future scientific
discovery and innovation in jeopardy,’’
the group wrote in a letter to President
Donald Trump and senior congressional
leadership. The effort, spearheaded by
Friends of Cancer Research, has drawn
in the American Academy of Pediat-
rics, the American Society of Clinical
Oncology, Research!America, and the
National Organization for Rare Dis-
orders.
The shutdown is keeping the FDA
from reviewing new drug and medical
device applications and from con-
ducting certain inspections of food and
medical product facilities. It has also
slowed the hiring and onboarding of
new staff at an Agency that is already
grappling with hundreds of vacancies.
Some FDA research and policy develop-
ment has also come to a halt.
The FDA regulates products and in-
dustries that comprise about one-quar-
ter of the U.S. economy. The FDA en-
sures a safe food supply; protects pa-
tients from contaminated and unsafe
medical products; and approves new
lifesaving treatments, the group wrote.
The list goes on.
Diplomatic missions around the
world are being compromised. I had a
chance to talk to one of our Ambas-
sadors in a key country of great inter-
est to the United States. He confided in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.016 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S495
January 23, 2019
me that without a full complement of
staff, his mission is being com-
promised, and our national security is
being put at risk.
Let’s take a look at the faces of the
people who are impacted by this shut-
down. I already mentioned the fact
that just a few hours ago, I was at the
Maryland Food Bank location at which
I saw very proud, patriotic government
workers stand in line to get bags so
they could pick up food because they
didn’t have the money to pay for food
for their families. That is what is at
stake.
I have received letters from Federal
workers who are concerned about
whether they will be able to continue
their dental and vision health protec-
tion because those payments are not
automatically made when we are in
shutdown. The workers are supposed to
make those payments directly. How
many workers are going to be able to
or will even know that they need to
make the payments? They may see the
loss of critical coverage.
I know it is affecting people’s credit
scores. We know credit agencies are
not very tolerant with late payments.
Yet government workers are going to
have to slow down in paying their bills
because they will not have money.
Most workers live paycheck to pay-
check in paying their bills. Now their
credit scores are going to be affected,
and that is going to affect the cost of
credit. It may affect such things as
their security clearances, which will
affect their employment.
I have heard from several Federal
workers. I heard from one who said: I
have this dilemma. I live 90 miles away
from where I work as a Federal worker.
I am expected to be there every day. I
don’t have the money to pay for gaso-
line for my car. Yet I am expected to
pay for that without getting a pay-
check. By the way, I don’t have the
money to pay for the childcare for my
children. How am I expected to show up
for work and do essential work when I
don’t have the money to take care of
my needs so I can get transportation to
my job and take care of my family’s
needs with safe childcare?
This is the face of the people who
have been impacted by this partial gov-
ernment shutdown. Her circumstances
are really shocking.
One might be surprised to learn that
many Federal workers are expected to
use their own personal credit cards to
pay for government expenses. If they
travel on behalf of the government,
they use their own credit cards to pay
for those expenses. I am told it aver-
ages somewhere around $600 a month.
At the end of the month, they have to,
of course, pay their credit card bills,
but they have their reimbursements
from the Federal Government for these
legitimate expenses. In a government
shutdown, there is no Agency that can
reimburse them for that money. The
credit card companies are going to de-
mand that they pay. These are govern-
ment expenses, not theirs. What do
they do? This is where we are today
with the tragedies.
There was an ad in the paper that
really got to me. It was written by a
government worker who said she was
looking for a job.
She writes:
I’m currently furloughed due to the gov-
ernment shutdown and am available for
baby-sitting during the workday. I have
plenty of childcare experience from raising
my two children, ages 3 and 5, so I know how
hard it can be to find last-minute weekday
childcare. Alternatively, I’m also happy to
provide science tutoring for any high school
or college students. I have a Ph.D. in cellular
and molecular medicine and can help with
biology, genetics, microbiology, bio-
chemistry, cell bio, or research methods.
Please message me if interested, and I would
be happy to provide you with additional in-
formation. Thanks.
Here is a Federal worker whom we
want to keep in Federal service. She
needs money to pay her bills and is
willing to be a babysitter but has sci-
entific training. We know she could be
gobbled up in the private sector for a
lot more money than she is making as
a government employee, and we are
going to lose her. We are going to lose
a lot of talented workers who ask: How
much longer can I put up with this?
How much longer can I work without
pay? The critical missions that she is
performing on behalf of America will
be compromised and lost. This is what
is at risk. This is what we are risking.
I haven’t even gone into all of the
different Agencies or the work that is
important to Americans. HUD’s being
closed means FHA loans are not being
processed and that you can’t go for-
ward with your closing on a home. I
know several senior housing projects
are being put on hold, which jeopard-
izes quality, affordable housing for our
seniors. The IRS season is beginning,
but it doesn’t have its full complement.
People want their refunds, but they are
going to be delayed. The list goes on
and on and on.
This is President Trump’s shutdown.
Many of us, on both sides of the aisle—
Democrats and Republicans—under-
stand border security issues. In the fis-
cal year 2019 appropriations, our appro-
priators did their work. The distin-
guished ranking member, Senator
LEAHY, is on the floor. He worked very
closely with Senator SHELBY on every
single appropriations bill in a bipar-
tisan manner. We did our work in the
U.S. Senate.
Seven of the appropriations bills
have not yet been completed through
no fault of the work of our appropri-
ators. Four of them passed the Senate
by a vote of 92 to 6. Why don’t we just
pick them up and pass them? We have
tried. I have asked unanimous consent.
Because we don’t want to offend the
President, the Republican leaders have
refused to allow us to consider them.
Two others passed the Appropriations
Committee by votes of 31 to 0 and 30 to
1.
With regard to Homeland Security,
on border security the committee did
its work on the fiscal year 2019 budget.
They came up with a game plan on bor-
der security. We did our work on time,
in a bipartisan manner. We know how
to deal with border security issues. We
have the expertise to work to make
sure that we spend our money in the
most appropriate way to defend our
border and to protect Americans.
So what should we do? First, we
should open the government. There is
no excuse for the government to be
closed. We are a coequal branch of gov-
ernment. We need to act as a coequal
branch of government. It is our respon-
sibility. We will have that chance to-
morrow.
There will be a vote on the floor of
the Senate to pass a short-term con-
tinuing resolution. This is identical to
what we acted on by unanimous con-
sent before the President changed his
mind.
Let’s remove the hostage-taking of
the American public. Let’s have a short
period of time to prove that we can use
the legislative process here, as we have
in the past, to work on border security
issues and pass a bipartisan border se-
curity bill, but not under the tactics
the President of the United States is
currently using. We can act that way
on behalf of the American people.
This is a dangerous shutdown. We
have seen the results, and we know
people’s lives have been compromised
and our national security has been af-
fected. We need to take the leadership.
I hope my colleagues will join me to-
morrow in voting for the continuing
resolution so we can open the govern-
ment and use our legislative process to
deal with the border security issues
and to deal with what is important to
the American people.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
hope the country has heard what the
distinguished senior Senator from
Maryland said. He sees this every day.
He sees it when he goes home to Balti-
more. He sees it when he talks with his
neighbors. He sees it when he is in the
grocery store. He sees it at the temple.
He sees it everywhere because these are
the people who are among our finest
government workers, and they are out
of work. They are not being paid. I sus-
pect he also sees it with the contrac-
tors and subcontractors and those who
are not on the Federal payroll but who
would lose their jobs if the Federal
Government is closed. So I compliment
him for doing this.
I also appreciate what he said about
the Appropriations Committee. The
distinguished Presiding Officer is one
of the hardest working chairs of the
Appropriations subcommittees. I real-
ize she cannot respond in her position
as Presiding Officer, but I note that she
moved her bill through. She did it in a
way that got enormous support from
Republicans and Democrats across the
political spectrum, which is the way we
are supposed to do it. It certainly has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.019 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S496 January 23, 2019
been the way we have seen it done with
people from her State. We did it with
her father. We did it with my dear
friend, Senator Stevens, when he was
chair of the Appropriations Committee.
We did it when the distinguished senior
Senator from Maryland, Ms. Mikulski,
was chair of the overall committee. We
got this done.
It is a lot of work. It is tremendous
work for our staffs on both sides of the
aisle—a lot of late nights and week-
ends—but it is done because the Amer-
ican people want the U.S. Government
to work.
For a month now, much of the Fed-
eral Government has been closed for
business while the President of the
United States rants and raves about his
personal obsession, the centerpiece of
his extreme, anti-immigration agen-
da—a wall on our southern border.
For a month now, hundreds of thou-
sands of dedicated public servants have
gone without a paycheck, even while
many of them showed up for work
every single day. Many can no longer
pay their bills. They worry about how
they are going to put food on the table.
Many are looking for temporary work.
Many are standing in line at food pan-
tries. These are professionals. They are
trying to figure out: How do we pay for
childcare or healthcare? How do we pay
our student loans? How do we pay for
our mortgage?
It is not just the individuals. It is
also our institutions. Our Federal
courts are running out of money. Our
Federal courts are running out of
money. TSA agents are calling in sick
in droves after weeks on the job with-
out pay. What is that doing with air
traffic, especially during the winter, in
America?
Thousands of people who are trying
to buy new homes, which boosts our
economy, with a Federal Housing Ad-
ministration loan told: Come back
later.
Come back when?
Well, we don’t know. Whenever Presi-
dent Trump ends the shutdown, come
back.
Small businesses and farmers cannot
get federally backed loans. This is
after this body—under the leadership of
the distinguished Republican, Senator
ROBERTS, and the distinguished Demo-
crat, Senator STABENOW—put through
a 5-year farm bill, which brought al-
most all of us together. We voted for it,
but now farmers can’t use it. They
don’t even know what the new rules are
because nobody is there to answer their
questions.
We scaled back on food inspections.
We are not enforcing our clean air and
clean water rules. Our national parks
are being vandalized and permanently
damaged as they remain open to the
public, but they are not staffed.
As a former prosecutor, here is some-
thing that sends a chill down my spine.
The FBI Agents Association says
criminal investigations are being sty-
mied, grand jury subpoenas are going
undelivered, and confidential sources
are being lost. It is quickly becoming a
national security threat.
This is America? This is the country
I am proud to serve?
Either the President does not under-
stand the harm his shutdown is caus-
ing, or he does not care. But the coun-
try is suffering. Our economy is suf-
fering. The American people are suf-
fering.
The Trump shutdown makes us look
foolish and weak to the rest of the
world. This is the leader of the free
world we are seeing as weak and in-
competent. However, over the weekend,
the President addressed the country
from the White House, and he laid out
his price to stop the shutdown. Calling
it a compromise, he made vague prom-
ises for protections for DACA recipi-
ents and those who receive TPS, or
temporary protected status. We could
end this shutdown, he said, and all U.S.
taxpayers had to do was fund his wall—
a wasteful monument to himself that
he just wants the taxpayers to fund,
even though he gave his word to all
Americans, over and over, that Mexico
would pay for it. He did not tell the
truth then, and now he wants the
American taxpayers to bail him out.
It was a transparent attempt to look
reasonable on national television,
while simultaneously holding the Fed-
eral Government and millions of Amer-
icans hostage to a shutdown that
harms our economy and our commu-
nities every day. But as for offering
temporary protections for vulnerable
immigrants—protections that he uni-
laterally chose to strip, in the first
place—in exchange for a permanent, in-
effective wall, nobody can call that
reasonable. It is hardly reasonable to
hold the well-being of our Federal
workforce or the services upon which
many in America rely as hostages to
fund a pet project. The President can-
not bargain with something that he
broke.
On Monday night, Senate Repub-
licans unveiled the President’s plan in
more detail. It became clear that what
seemed like a disingenuous ploy to
seem reasonable to stop his slide in the
polls was really a much more cynical
attempt to implement his hard-lined,
anti-immigration agenda, using the
harm of the Trump shutdown as lever-
age.
The McConnell bill before us reads
like an A-through-Z immigration wish
list for President Trump and those in
his anti-immigrant inner circle. First,
the bill provides $5.7 billion for a
wasteful monument to the President’s
ego—a wall that most experts say
would do little to address the real prob-
lems on our southern border.
The bill, ultimately, dramatically in-
creases the number of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, or so-called
ICE, detention beds to 52,000 and ICE
enforcement agents by 2,000. Even as I
give these numbers, I think of walking
through these rooms with cages that
children are being kept in. Every one of
us who has children or grandchildren
and every one of us who has gone
through a school yard and has seen
young children has heard that the dec-
ibel level is outstanding. They are
laughing. They are playing. They are
talking with each other. When you go
through these cages—these cages hold-
ing these young, innocent children—
there is dead silence—no laughter, no
talking with each other, no joking.
There is dead silence.
This is America. What are we show-
ing the rest of the world?
The Trump administration has re-
peatedly proven it does not know how
to prioritize its immigration enforce-
ment resources. In the first 14 months
of the Trump administration, ICE’s ar-
rests of immigrants with no criminal
convictions—no criminal convictions—
spiked by 203 percent over the last 14
months of the previous administration.
So it shows that President Trump has
not deployed resources to round up, as
he said, ‘‘bad hombres’’ or threats to
our national security. He is deploying
his enforcement resources to strike
fear into the hearts of all undocu-
mented immigrants.
This administration’s enforcement
policies are driven by the cruel desire
to scare undocumented immigrants
into believing that they or their dis-
abled children or their elderly parents
could be next. Until the Trump admin-
istration changes its dragnet approach
to immigration enforcement, Congress
should not fund an expansion of his de-
tention and deportation force.
I would ask anybody to walk past
those cages with the children in them.
I never thought I would see this in
America. I have seen it in war zones
and other countries, but not America—
not in the America I love.
The bill also contains provisions that
serve as fig leaves to fix problems the
Trump administration brought about
in the first place. It would provide 3
years of temporary protection to
700,000 individuals currently involved
in DACA—protections that are only re-
quired because of the President’s own
decision to terminate the DACA Pro-
gram. It would not provide a path to
citizenship for these Dreamers or any
protections to the nearly 1 million
more individuals who are eligible for
DACA protections. Similarly, the bill
would provide 3 years of temporary
protection to TPS recipients from a
few countries with TPS designation the
Trump administration terminated in
the first place.
If you provide permanent funding for
a wall in exchange for provisions that
temporarily clean up messes of the
Trump administration’s own making,
that is not a compromise. It is taking
hostages on top of hostages. That is a
nonstarter. Stripping away protections
from Dreamers and TPS recipients and
then treating them like pawns by sud-
denly offering them temporary re-
prieve—this is not compassion. It is
callous. It is wicked. It is evil.
Finally, the bill seeks to dismantle
our humanitarian asylum system as we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.022 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S497
January 23, 2019
know it. It contains provisions that
would effectively bar any asylum appli-
cations from Honduran, Guatemalan,
and Salvadoran minors that are not
made from a designated processing cen-
ter somewhere in Central America. In
other words, thousands of vulnerable
children fleeing the horrors of torture,
murder, and rape in the Northern Tri-
angle and arriving at our border would
be categorically barred from applying
for asylum and be subject to imme-
diate removal proceedings.
The entire point of asylum is to pro-
vide an opportunity for those who have
fled from persecution and violence to
seek refuge in our country. Our asylum
system would become distorted beyond
recognition if, instead, we punish these
desperate children—punish them for
the very act of fleeing for their lives.
It is remarkable that the man whose
name is on the book called ‘‘The Art of
the Deal’’ would think that Democrats
would accept what amounts to a deal
breaker. This Democrat will not.
I welcome a debate on the need for
immigration reform. I would remind
Senators that in 2013, when I was chair-
man of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, I issued a bipartisan bill to re-
form the immigration system and se-
cure our border through the com-
mittee. We held dozens of hearings. We
considered hundreds of amendments.
We often met until late at night. Then,
when we brought it before the Senate,
it got 68 votes here on the Senate floor.
Republicans and Democrats joined to-
gether to give it a supermajority. So it
shows it can be done, but not while the
President holds hostage all Americans,
including hundreds of thousands of
Federal workers and their families.
I remind the Senate that on Decem-
ber 19, when Republicans controlled the
House and Republicans controlled the
Senate, the Senate passed a bipartisan
bill to fund the government by a voice
vote. In other words, the Senate was
for keeping the government open—
until President Trump changed the
mind of our Republican leader.
The President and Senate Repub-
licans should reopen the government
now, without any further foot-drag-
ging. Congress and the Senate are a co-
equal and independent branch of gov-
ernment. We have bipartisan bills be-
fore Congress right now to do that. My
friend the majority leader has refused
to bring them up while the country
pays the price. This has to end. I hope
he will pull up the bipartisan bills. I
hope he will let us vote.
Again, I would say that we are look-
ing weak to the rest of the world. We
are looking foolish to the rest of the
world. But what hurts the most are the
people—not only Federal employees
but contractors, private industry, and
everybody else in every one of our
States—who are suffering and watching
our economy sink further as a result.
I see the distinguished majority lead-
er on the floor, so I yield the floor.
ANNIVERSARY OF MARSHALL
COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I would like to take a moment to mark
the first anniversary of the tragic
shooting at Marshall County High
School, which took place 1 year ago
today in Benton, KY.
Bailey Holt and Preston Cope, both
15, began that morning just like any
other. Their parents and friends de-
scribed Bailey and Preston as bright
kids with promising futures ahead, but
this peaceful community was shattered
when a fellow student opened fire, tak-
ing Bailey and Preston’s lives, and
leaving nearly 20 additional students
wounded.
Their families were left to grieve,
and for the past year, the community
has done its best to provide comfort
and put the pieces back together.
This evening, the Marshall County
community will join together once
again to remember the victims and to
continue the healing. As they do, my
prayers and those of all their fellow
Kentuckians will be with them.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO DR. STEVEN M.
SOUTHWICK
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, today I wish to recognize Dr. Ste-
ven M. Southwick on the occasion of
his retirement.
For over 30 years, Dr. Southwick has
dedicated himself to researching com-
bat-related PTSD. His impressive work
has helped make great strides in the ef-
forts to alleviate suffering and promote
resilience for veterans. Much of the
necessary progress in this field is
thanks to Dr. Southwick’s diligent
studies.
A graduate of Yale College, the
George Washington School of Medicine,
and the Yale Psychiatry Residency, Dr.
Southwick served in the U.S. Army be-
fore attending medical school. During
his service, he was stationed in Ger-
many. His time in the military would
shape the path of his future research.
In 1985, Dr. Southwick joined the fac-
ulty of the VA Connecticut Healthcare
System and the Yale Department of
Psychiatry. Throughout his career, he
has worked not only with combat vet-
erans, but also with a range of trauma
survivors, including athletes, astro-
nauts, civilians with PTSD, and former
prisoners of war.
Some of his many notable accom-
plishments include leading the first
mechanistic neurobiology study of
PTSD and, along with his colleagues at
the National Center for PTSD, being
among the first to study the biological
and cognitive underpinnings of resil-
ience among U.S. Special Forces train-
ees. Through such research, Dr. South-
wick pioneered the study of human re-
silience and introduced a new perspec-
tive on trauma. I have been fortunate
to learn firsthand during visits to the
center about the progress he and his
colleagues are making on this complex
but extremely critical condition that
affects many veterans and first re-
sponders, and I commend them on their
vital work.
He now serves as the medical director
of the clinical neuroscience division of
the VA National Center for PTSD and
the Glenn H. Greenberg Professor of
Psychiatry, PTSD, and Resilience at
the Yale University School of Medi-
cine. In these positions, Dr. Southwick
has mentored countless future leaders
in the field of PTSD research.
Dr. Southwick is the recipient of nu-
merous honors and takes part in a
number of journals, committees, and
seminars in his area of expertise.
Though he is recognized for his im-
mense contributions to the realm of
PTSD research, he is also highly re-
garded and beloved by his colleagues,
students, and patients.
I applaud his lifetime of service and
hope my colleagues will join me in con-
gratulating Dr. Southwick on his well-
earned retirement.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 11:03 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 31. An act to require certain addi-
tional actions in connection with the na-
tional emergency with respect to Syria, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 328. An act to require the Secretary of
State to design and establish a Vulnerability
Disclosure Process (VDP) to improve Depart-
ment of State cybersecurity and a bug boun-
ty program to identify and report
vulnerabilities of internet-facing informa-
tion technology of the Department of State,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 353. An act to direct the Secretary of
State to develop a strategy to regain ob-
server status for Taiwan in the World Health
Organization, and for other purposes.
H.R. 439. An act to amend the charter of
the Future Farmers of America, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 498. An act to eliminate unused sec-
tions of the United States Code, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 676. An act to reiterate the support of
the Congress of the United States for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Jan 23, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S498 January 23, 2019
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and for
other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 12:30 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bills:
H.R. 259. An act to extend the Medicaid
Money Follows the Person Rebalancing dem-
onstration, to extend protection for Medicaid
recipients of home and community-based
services against spousal impoverishment,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 430. An act to extend the program of
block grants to States for temporary assist-
ance for needy families and related programs
through June 30, 2019.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the Acting President pro
tempore (Ms. MURKOWSKI).
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 31. An act to require certain addi-
tional actions in connection with the na-
tional emergency with respect to Syria, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
H.R. 328. An act to require the Secretary of
State to design and establish a Vulnerability
Disclosure Process (VDP) to improve Depart-
ment of State cybersecurity and a bug boun-
ty program to identify and report
vulnerabilities of internet-facing informa-
tion technology of the Department of State,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
H.R. 353. An act to direct the Secretary of
State to develop a strategy to regain ob-
server status for Taiwan in the World Health
Organization, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
H.R. 439. An act to amend the charter of
the Future Farmers of America, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
H.R. 498. An act to eliminate unused sec-
tions of the United States Code, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–154. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Stayce D. Harris, United States Air
Force Reserve, and her advancement to the
grade of lieutenant general on the retired
list; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–155. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting the re-
port of an officer authorized to wear the in-
signia of the grade of vice admiral in accord-
ance with title 10, United States Code, sec-
tion 777a, for a period not to exceed 14 days
before assuming the duties of the position
for which the higher grade is authorized, this
will not cause the Department to exceed the
number of frocked officers authorized; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–156. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting the re-
port of an officer authorized to wear the in-
signia of the grade of brigadier general in ac-
cordance with title 10, United States Code,
section 777; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–157. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, Export-Import Bank of
the United States, transmitting, pursuant to
law, three (3) reports relative to vacancies in
the Export-Import Bank of the United
States, received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on January 18, 2019; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–158. A communication from the Chair-
man and President (Acting) of the Export-
Import Bank of the United States, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the Bank’s 2018 An-
nual Report; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–159. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the Espanola Valley, Rio Grande
Flood Risk Management and Ecosystem Res-
toration project, Espanola Valley, Rio
Grande and Tributaries, New Mexico; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–160. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director of Regulation Policy and Man-
agement, Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Veterans’ Group Life Insur-
ance Increased Coverage’’ ((RIN2900–AQ12)
(38 CFR Part 9)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 22, 2019;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–161. A communication from the Regula-
tion Policy Development Coordinator, Office
of Regulation Policy and Management, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘VA Claims and Appeals Modernization’’
(RIN2900–AQ26) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 22, 2019;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 117
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 117, a bill to prohibit discrimina-
tion against individuals with disabil-
ities who need long-term services and
supports, and for other purposes.
S. 165
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH), the Senator from
West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN), the Sen-
ator from Virginia (Mr. KAINE), the
Senator from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN) and the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 165, a bill to amend chap-
ter 85 of title 5, United States Code, to
clarify that Federal employees ex-
cepted from a furlough are eligible for
unemployment compensation.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 172, a bill to delay the reimposi-
tion of the annual fee on health insur-
ance providers until after 2021.
S. 183
At the request of Mr. LANKFORD, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. THUNE) were added
as cosponsors of S. 183, a bill to amend
the Public Health Service Act to pro-
hibit governmental discrimination
against providers of health services
that are not involved in abortion.
S. 184
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
184, a bill to authorize the appropria-
tion of funds to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention for conducting
or supporting research on firearms
safety or gun violence prevention.
S. 190
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ)
was added as a cosponsor of S. 190, a
bill to amend the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 to prohibit assistance to
nonprofits, foreign nongovernmental
organizations, and quasi-autonomous
nongovernmental organizations that
promote or perform abortions.
S.J. RES. 1
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of Flor-
ida, his name was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 1, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States relative to
limiting the number of terms that a
Member of Congress may serve.
S. RES. 20
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ)
was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 20,
a resolution expressing the sense of the
Senate that the Protecting Life in
Global Health Assistance policy should
be permanently established.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 7. Mr. BURR submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 268, making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 8. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 9. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 10. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 11. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 12. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 13. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 14. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 15. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:21 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\S23JA9.REC S23JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S499
January 23, 2019
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 16. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 17. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 18. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 19. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 20. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 7. Mr. BURR submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE AUTHOR-
IZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018
AND 2019
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This division may be
cited as the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Mat-
thew Young Pollard Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this division is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Explanatory statement.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authoriza-
tions.
Sec. 103. Intelligence Community Manage-
ment Account.
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DIS-
ABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 202. Computation of annuities for em-
ployees of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
Sec. 301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Sec. 302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 303. Modification of special pay author-
ity for science, technology, en-
gineering, or mathematics posi-
tions and addition of special
pay authority for cyber posi-
tions.
Sec. 304. Modification of appointment of
Chief Information Officer of the
Intelligence Community.
Sec. 305. Director of National Intelligence
review of placement of posi-
tions within the intelligence
community on the Executive
Schedule.
Sec. 306. Supply Chain and Counterintel-
ligence Risk Management Task
Force.
Sec. 307. Consideration of adversarial tele-
communications and cybersecu-
rity infrastructure when shar-
ing intelligence with foreign
governments and entities.
Sec. 308. Cyber protection support for the
personnel of the intelligence
community in positions highly
vulnerable to cyber attack.
Sec. 309. Modification of authority relating
to management of supply-chain
risk.
Sec. 310. Limitations on determinations re-
garding certain security classi-
fications.
Sec. 311. Joint Intelligence Community
Council.
Sec. 312. Intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment.
Sec. 313. Report on development of secure
mobile voice solution for intel-
ligence community.
Sec. 314. Policy on minimum insider threat
standards.
Sec. 315. Submission of intelligence commu-
nity policies.
Sec. 316. Expansion of intelligence commu-
nity recruitment efforts.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Sec. 401. Authority for protection of current
and former employees of the Of-
fice of the Director of National
Intelligence.
Sec. 402. Designation of the program man-
ager-information sharing envi-
ronment.
Sec. 403. Technical modification to the exec-
utive schedule.
Sec. 404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intel-
ligence Community.
Sec. 405. Chief Information Officer of the In-
telligence Community.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
Sec. 411. Central Intelligence Agency sub-
sistence for personnel assigned
to austere locations.
Sec. 412. Special rules for certain monthly
workers’ compensation pay-
ments and other payments for
Central Intelligence Agency
personnel.
Sec. 413. Expansion of security protective
service jurisdiction of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 414. Repeal of foreign language pro-
ficiency requirement for cer-
tain senior level positions in
the Central Intelligence Agen-
cy.
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and Coun-
terintelligence of Department of Energy
Sec. 421. Consolidation of Department of En-
ergy Offices of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence.
Sec. 422. Establishment of Energy Infra-
structure Security Center.
Sec. 423. Repeal of Department of Energy In-
telligence Executive Com-
mittee and budget reporting re-
quirement.
Subtitle D—Other Elements
Sec. 431. Plan for designation of counter-
intelligence component of De-
fense Security Service as an
element of intelligence commu-
nity.
Sec. 432. Notice not required for private en-
tities.
Sec. 433. Framework for roles, missions, and
functions of Defense Intel-
ligence Agency.
Sec. 434. Establishment of advisory board
for National Reconnaissance
Office.
Sec. 435. Collocation of certain Department
of Homeland Security personnel
at field locations.
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
Sec. 501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign
governments against United
States election infrastructure.
Sec. 502. Review of intelligence commu-
nity’s posture to collect against
and analyze Russian efforts to
influence the Presidential elec-
tion.
Sec. 503. Assessment of foreign intelligence
threats to Federal elections.
Sec. 504. Strategy for countering Russian
cyber threats to United States
elections.
Sec. 505. Assessment of significant Russian
influence campaigns directed at
foreign elections and referenda.
Sec. 506. Foreign counterintelligence and
cybersecurity threats to Fed-
eral election campaigns.
Sec. 507. Information sharing with State
election officials.
Sec. 508. Notification of significant foreign
cyber intrusions and active
measures campaigns directed at
elections for Federal offices.
Sec. 509. Designation of counterintelligence
officer to lead election security
matters.
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Reports and plans relating to secu-
rity clearances and background
investigations.
Sec. 603. Improving the process for security
clearances.
Sec. 604. Goals for promptness of determina-
tions regarding security clear-
ances.
Sec. 605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 606. Report on unified, simplified, Gov-
ernmentwide standards for po-
sitions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 607. Report on clearance in person con-
cept.
Sec. 608. Budget request documentation on
funding for background inves-
tigations.
Sec. 609. Reports on reciprocity for security
clearances inside of depart-
ments and agencies.
Sec. 610. Intelligence community reports on
security clearances.
Sec. 611. Periodic report on positions in the
intelligence community that
can be conducted without ac-
cess to classified information,
networks, or facilities.
Sec. 612. Information sharing program for
positions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 613. Report on protections for confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related
communications.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
Sec. 701. Limitation relating to establish-
ment or support of cybersecu-
rity unit with the Russian Fed-
eration.
Sec. 702. Report on returning Russian com-
pounds.
Sec. 703. Assessment of threat finance relat-
ing to Russia.
Sec. 704. Notification of an active measures
campaign.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.007 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S500 January 23, 2019
Sec. 705. Notification of travel by accredited
diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federa-
tion in the United States.
Sec. 706. Report on outreach strategy ad-
dressing threats from United
States adversaries to the
United States technology sec-
tor.
Sec. 707. Report on Iranian support of proxy
forces in Syria and Lebanon.
Sec. 708. Annual report on Iranian expendi-
tures supporting foreign mili-
tary and terrorist activities.
Sec. 709. Expansion of scope of committee to
counter active measures and re-
port on establishment of For-
eign Malign Influence Center.
Subtitle B—Reports
Sec. 711. Technical correction to Inspector
General study.
Sec. 712. Reports on authorities of the Chief
Intelligence Officer of the De-
partment of Homeland Secu-
rity.
Sec. 713. Report on cyber exchange program.
Sec. 714. Review of intelligence community
whistleblower matters.
Sec. 715. Report on role of Director of Na-
tional Intelligence with respect
to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 716. Report on surveillance by foreign
governments against United
States telecommunications net-
works.
Sec. 717. Biennial report on foreign invest-
ment risks.
Sec. 718. Modification of certain reporting
requirement on travel of for-
eign diplomats.
Sec. 719. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified information.
Sec. 720. Congressional notification of des-
ignation of covered intelligence
officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 721. Reports on intelligence community
participation in vulnerabilities
equities process of Federal Gov-
ernment.
Sec. 722. Inspectors General reports on clas-
sification.
Sec. 723. Reports on global water insecurity
and national security implica-
tions and briefing on emerging
infectious disease and
pandemics.
Sec. 724. Annual report on memoranda of
understanding between ele-
ments of intelligence commu-
nity and other entities of the
United States Government re-
garding significant operational
activities or policy.
Sec. 725. Study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline
and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 726. Modification of requirement for an-
nual report on hiring and reten-
tion of minority employees.
Sec. 727. Reports on intelligence community
loan repayment and related
programs.
Sec. 728. Repeal of certain reporting require-
ments.
Sec. 729. Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community report on
senior executives of the Office
of the Director of National In-
telligence.
Sec. 730. Briefing on Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation offering permanent
residence to sources and co-
operators.
Sec. 731. Intelligence assessment of North
Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 732. Report on possible exploitation of
virtual currencies by terrorist
actors.
Sec. 733. Inclusion of disciplinary actions in
annual report relating to sec-
tion 702 of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 741. Public Interest Declassification
Board.
Sec. 742. Securing energy infrastructure.
Sec. 743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 744. Modification of authorities relating
to the National Intelligence
University.
Sec. 745. Technical and clerical amendments
to the National Security Act of
1947.
Sec. 746. Technical amendments related to
the Department of Energy.
Sec. 747. Sense of Congress on notification of
certain disclosures of classified
information.
Sec. 748. Sense of Congress on consideration
of espionage activities when
considering whether or not to
provide visas to foreign individ-
uals to be accredited to a
United Nations mission in the
United States.
Sec. 749. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in such section.
SEC. 3. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.
The explanatory statement regarding this
division, printed in the Senate section of the
Congressional Record, by the Chairman of
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
Senate, shall have the same effect with re-
spect to the implementation of this division
as if it were a joint explanatory statement of
a committee of conference.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year
2019 for the conduct of the intelligence and
intelligence-related activities of the fol-
lowing elements of the United States Gov-
ernment:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5) The National Security Agency.
(6) The Department of the Army, the De-
partment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force.
(7) The Coast Guard.
(8) The Department of State.
(9) The Department of the Treasury.
(10) The Department of Energy.
(11) The Department of Justice.
(12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13) The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
(14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(16) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(b) FISCAL YEAR 2018.—Funds that were ap-
propriated for fiscal year 2018 for the conduct
of the intelligence and intelligence-related
activities of the elements of the United
States set forth in subsection (a) are hereby
authorized.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.
(a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS.—The
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
section 101 for the conduct of the intel-
ligence activities of the elements listed in
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are
those specified in the classified Schedule of
Authorizations prepared to accompany this
division.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE
OF AUTHORIZATIONS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY.—The classified Schedule
of Authorizations referred to in subsection
(a) shall be made available to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives, and to the President.
(2) DISTRIBUTION BY THE PRESIDENT.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (3), the President shall pro-
vide for suitable distribution of the classified
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in
subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of
such Schedule, within the executive branch.
(3) LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE.—The President
shall not publicly disclose the classified
Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of
such Schedule except—
(A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Im-
plementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
(B) to the extent necessary to implement
the budget; or
(C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGE-
MENT ACCOUNT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account of the Director of National Intel-
ligence for fiscal year 2019 the sum of
$522,424,000.
(b) CLASSIFIED AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
Community Management Account by sub-
section (a), there are authorized to be appro-
priated for the Intelligence Community Man-
agement Account for fiscal year 2019 such ad-
ditional amounts as are specified in the clas-
sified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
in section 102(a).
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-
TEM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal
year 2019.
SEC. 202. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR EM-
PLOYEES OF THE CENTRAL INTEL-
LIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 221 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2031) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(3)(B), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘, as deter-
mined by using the annual rate of basic pay
that would be payable for full-time service in
that position.’’;
(B) in subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), by striking
‘‘12-month’’ and inserting ‘‘2-year’’;
(C) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’;
(D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ each place such term appears and in-
serting ‘‘two years’’;
(E) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), (j),
(k), and (l) as subsections (i), (j), (k), (l), and
(m), respectively; and
(F) by inserting after subsection (g) the
following:
‘‘(h) CONDITIONAL ELECTION OF INSURABLE
INTEREST SURVIVOR ANNUITY BY PARTICI-
PANTS MARRIED AT THE TIME OF RETIRE-
MENT.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORITY TO MAKE DESIGNATION.—
Subject to the rights of former spouses under
subsection (b) and section 222, at the time of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S501
January 23, 2019
retirement a married participant found by
the Director to be in good health may elect
to receive an annuity reduced in accordance
with subsection (f)(1)(B) and designate in
writing an individual having an insurable in-
terest in the participant to receive an annu-
ity under the system after the participant’s
death, except that any such election to pro-
vide an insurable interest survivor annuity
to the participant’s spouse shall only be ef-
fective if the participant’s spouse waives the
spousal right to a survivor annuity under
this Act. The amount of the annuity shall be
equal to 55 percent of the participant’s re-
duced annuity.
‘‘(2) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT’S ANNUITY.—
The annuity payable to the participant mak-
ing such election shall be reduced by 10 per-
cent of an annuity computed under sub-
section (a) and by an additional 5 percent for
each full 5 years the designated individual is
younger than the participant. The total re-
duction under this subparagraph may not ex-
ceed 40 percent.
‘‘(3) COMMENCEMENT OF SURVIVOR ANNU-
ITY.—The annuity payable to the designated
individual shall begin on the day after the
retired participant dies and terminate on the
last day of the month before the designated
individual dies.
‘‘(4) RECOMPUTATION OF PARTICIPANT’S AN-
NUITY ON DEATH OF DESIGNATED INDIVIDUAL.—
An annuity that is reduced under this sub-
section shall, effective the first day of the
month following the death of the designated
individual, be recomputed and paid as if the
annuity had not been so reduced.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIRE-
MENT ACT.—The Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) is
amended—
(i) in section 232(b)(1) (50 U.S.C. 2052(b)(1)),
by striking ‘‘221(h),’’ and inserting ‘‘221(i),’’;
and
(ii) in section 252(h)(4) (50 U.S.C. 2082(h)(4)),
by striking ‘‘221(k)’’ and inserting ‘‘221(l)’’.
(B) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF
1949.—Subsection (a) of section 14 of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50
U.S.C. 3514(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘221(h)(2), 221(i), 221(l),’’ and inserting
‘‘221(i)(2), 221(j), 221(m),’’.
(b) ANNUITIES FOR FORMER SPOUSES.—Sub-
paragraph (B) of section 222(b)(5) of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2032(b)(5)(B)) is amended by striking
‘‘one year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’.
(c) PRIOR SERVICE CREDIT.—Subparagraph
(A) of section 252(b)(3) of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C.
2082(b)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘Octo-
ber 1, 1990’’ both places that term appears
and inserting ‘‘March 31, 1991’’.
(d) REEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.—Sec-
tion 273 of the Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2113) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) PART-TIME REEMPLOYED ANNU-
ITANTS.—The Director shall have the author-
ity to reemploy an annuitant on a part-time
basis in accordance with section 8344(l) of
title 5, United States Code.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICATION.—The
amendments made by subsection (a)(1)(A)
and subsection (c) shall take effect as if en-
acted on October 28, 2009, and shall apply to
computations or participants, respectively,
as of such date.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
SEC. 301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTEL-
LIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
The authorization of appropriations by
this division shall not be deemed to con-
stitute authority for the conduct of any in-
telligence activity which is not otherwise
authorized by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States.
SEC. 302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSA-
TION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED
BY LAW.
Appropriations authorized by this division
for salary, pay, retirement, and other bene-
fits for Federal employees may be increased
by such additional or supplemental amounts
as may be necessary for increases in such
compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 303. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL PAY AU-
THORITY FOR SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHE-
MATICS POSITIONS AND ADDITION
OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR
CYBER POSITIONS.
Section 113B of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3049a) is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as
follows:
‘‘(a) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR POSITIONS
REQUIRING EXPERTISE IN SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHEMATICS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding part III
of title 5, United States Code, the head of
each element of the intelligence community
may, for 1 or more categories of positions in
such element that require expertise in
science, technology, engineering, or mathe-
matics—
‘‘(A) establish higher minimum rates of
pay; and
‘‘(B) make corresponding increases in all
rates of pay of the pay range for each grade
or level, subject to subsection (b) or (c), as
applicable.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT.—The special rate supple-
ments resulting from the establishment of
higher rates under paragraph (1) shall be
basic pay for the same or similar purposes as
those specified in section 5305(j) of title 5,
United States Code.’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b)
through (f) as subsections (c) through (g), re-
spectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR CYBER PO-
SITIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (c), the Director of the National Se-
curity Agency may establish a special rate of
pay—
‘‘(A) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for level II of the Executive Sched-
ule under section 5313 of title 5, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence,
in consultation with the Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Readiness, that
the rate of pay is for positions that perform
functions that execute the cyber mission of
the Agency; or
‘‘(B) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for the Vice President of the United
States under section 104 of title 3, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Secretary of Defense, by name, individuals
that have advanced skills and competencies
and that perform critical functions that exe-
cute the cyber mission of the Agency.
‘‘(2) PAY LIMITATION.—Employees receiving
a special rate under paragraph (1) shall be
subject to an aggregate pay limitation that
parallels the limitation established in sec-
tion 5307 of title 5, United States Code, ex-
cept that—
‘‘(A) any allowance, differential, bonus,
award, or other similar cash payment in ad-
dition to basic pay that is authorized under
title 10, United States Code, (or any other
applicable law in addition to title 5 of such
Code, excluding the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.)) shall also
be counted as part of aggregate compensa-
tion; and
‘‘(B) aggregate compensation may not ex-
ceed the rate established for the Vice Presi-
dent of the United States under section 104
of title 3, United States Code.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF RECIPI-
ENTS.—The number of individuals who re-
ceive basic pay established under paragraph
(1)(B) may not exceed 100 at any time.
‘‘(4) LIMITATION ON USE AS COMPARATIVE
REFERENCE.—Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, special rates of pay and the
limitation established under paragraph (1)(B)
may not be used as comparative references
for the purpose of fixing the rates of basic
pay or maximum pay limitations of qualified
positions under section 1599f of title 10,
United States Code, or section 226 of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
147).’’;
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘A minimum’’ and
inserting ‘‘Except as provided in subsection
(b), a minimum’’;
(5) in subsection (d), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or (b)’’ after ‘‘by
subsection (a)’’; and
(6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
paragraph (2)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2017’’ and inserting ‘‘Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ‘‘or
(b)’’ after ‘‘subsection (a)’’.
SEC. 304. MODIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
striking ‘‘President’’ and inserting ‘‘Direc-
tor’’.
SEC. 305. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE REVIEW OF PLACEMENT
OF POSITIONS WITHIN THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY ON THE EXEC-
UTIVE SCHEDULE.
(a) REVIEW.—The Director of National In-
telligence, in coordination with the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, shall
conduct a review of positions within the in-
telligence community regarding the place-
ment of such positions on the Executive
Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of
title 5, United States Code. In carrying out
such review, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management, shall
determine—
(1) the standards under which such review
will be conducted;
(2) which positions should or should not be
on the Executive Schedule; and
(3) for those positions that should be on the
Executive Schedule, the level of the Execu-
tive Schedule at which such positions should
be placed.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the date on which the review under sub-
section (a) is completed, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Government Reform
of the House of Representatives an
unredacted report describing the standards
by which the review was conducted and the
outcome of the review.
SEC. 306. SUPPLY CHAIN AND COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE RISK MANAGEMENT TASK
FORCE.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S502 January 23, 2019
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform of the House of Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall estab-
lish a Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force to standardize
information sharing between the intelligence
community and the acquisition community
of the United States Government with re-
spect to the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks.
(c) MEMBERS.—The Supply Chain and
Counterintelligence Risk Management Task
Force established under subsection (b) shall
be composed of—
(1) a representative of the Defense Security
Service of the Department of Defense;
(2) a representative of the General Services
Administration;
(3) a representative of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget;
(4) a representative of the Department of
Homeland Security;
(5) a representative of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation;
(6) the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center; and
(7) any other members the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence determines appropriate.
(d) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—Each member
of the Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force established
under subsection (b) shall have a security
clearance at the top secret level and be able
to access sensitive compartmented informa-
tion.
(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Supply Chain
and Counterintelligence Risk Management
Task Force established under subsection (b)
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an annual report that de-
scribes the activities of the Task Force dur-
ing the previous year, including identifica-
tion of the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks shared with the acquisition
community of the United States Government
by the intelligence community.
SEC. 307. CONSIDERATION OF ADVERSARIAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND CYBER-
SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE WHEN
SHARING INTELLIGENCE WITH FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AND ENTITIES.
Whenever the head of an element of the in-
telligence community enters into an intel-
ligence sharing agreement with a foreign
government or any other foreign entity, the
head of the element shall consider the perva-
siveness of telecommunications and cyberse-
curity infrastructure, equipment, and serv-
ices provided by adversaries of the United
States, particularly China and Russia, or en-
tities of such adversaries in the country or
region of the foreign government or other
foreign entity entering into the agreement.
SEC. 308. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR THE
PERSONNEL OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY IN POSITIONS HIGHLY
VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PERSONAL ACCOUNTS.—The term ‘‘per-
sonal accounts’’ means accounts for online
and telecommunications services, including
telephone, residential Internet access, email,
text and multimedia messaging, cloud com-
puting, social media, health care, and finan-
cial services, used by personnel of the intel-
ligence community outside of the scope of
their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community.
(2) PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY DEVICES.—The
term ‘‘personal technology devices’’ means
technology devices used by personnel of the
intelligence community outside of the scope
of their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community, including networks to
which such devices connect.
(b) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE CYBER PROTEC-
TION SUPPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to a determina-
tion by the Director of National Intelligence,
the Director may provide cyber protection
support for the personal technology devices
and personal accounts of the personnel de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(2) AT-RISK PERSONNEL.—The personnel de-
scribed in this paragraph are personnel of
the intelligence community—
(A) who the Director determines to be
highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and hos-
tile information collection activities because
of the positions occupied by such personnel
in the intelligence community; and
(B) whose personal technology devices or
personal accounts are highly vulnerable to
cyber attacks and hostile information collec-
tion activities.
(c) NATURE OF CYBER PROTECTION SUP-
PORT.—Subject to the availability of re-
sources, the cyber protection support pro-
vided to personnel under subsection (b) may
include training, advice, assistance, and
other services relating to cyber attacks and
hostile information collection activities.
(d) LIMITATION ON SUPPORT.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed—
(1) to encourage personnel of the intel-
ligence community to use personal tech-
nology devices for official business; or
(2) to authorize cyber protection support
for senior intelligence community personnel
using personal devices, networks, and per-
sonal accounts in an official capacity.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the pro-
vision of cyber protection support under sub-
section (b). The report shall include—
(1) a description of the methodology used
to make the determination under subsection
(b)(2); and
(2) guidance for the use of cyber protection
support and tracking of support requests for
personnel receiving cyber protection support
under subsection (b).
SEC. 309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY RELAT-
ING TO MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLY-
CHAIN RISK.
(a) MODIFICATION OF EFFECTIVE DATE.—
Subsection (f) of section 309 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2012 (Public Law 112–87; 50 U.S.C. 3329 note) is
amended by striking ‘‘the date that is 180
days after’’.
(b) REPEAL OF SUNSET.—Such section is
amended by striking subsection (g).
(c) REPORTS.—Such section, as amended by
subsection (b), is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (f), as
amended by subsection (a), as subsection (g);
and
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of the Damon Paul
Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years
2018 and 2019 and not less frequently than
once each calendar year thereafter, the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall, in con-
sultation with each head of a covered agen-
cy, submit to the congressional intelligence
committees (as defined in section 3 of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003)), a report that details the determina-
tions and notifications made under sub-
section (c) during the most recently com-
pleted calendar year.
‘‘(2) INITIAL REPORT.—The first report sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall detail all
the determinations and notifications made
under subsection (c) before the date of the
submittal of the report.’’.
SEC. 310. LIMITATIONS ON DETERMINATIONS RE-
GARDING CERTAIN SECURITY CLAS-
SIFICATIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—An officer of an element
of the intelligence community who has been
nominated by the President for a position
that requires the advice and consent of the
Senate may not make a classification deci-
sion with respect to information related to
such officer’s nomination.
(b) CLASSIFICATION DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), in a case in which an officer
described in subsection (a) has been nomi-
nated as described in such subsection and
classification authority rests with the officer
or another officer who reports directly to
such officer, a classification decision with
respect to information relating to the officer
shall be made by the Director of National In-
telligence.
(2) NOMINATIONS OF DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE.—In a case described in para-
graph (1) in which the officer nominated is
the Director of National Intelligence, the
classification decision shall be made by the
Principal Deputy Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) REPORTS.—Whenever the Director or
the Principal Deputy Director makes a deci-
sion under subsection (b), the Director or the
Principal Deputy Director, as the case may
be, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report detailing the
reasons for the decision.
SEC. 311. JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
COUNCIL.
(a) MEETINGS.—Section 101A(d) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3022(d))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘regular’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘as the Director considers
appropriate’’ after ‘‘Council’’.
(b) REPORT ON FUNCTION AND UTILITY OF
THE JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY COUN-
CIL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Executive Office of the
President and members of the Joint Intel-
ligence Community Council, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the function and utility of the
Joint Intelligence Community Council.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The number of physical or virtual
meetings held by the Council per year since
the Council’s inception.
(B) A description of the effect and accom-
plishments of the Council.
(C) An explanation of the unique role of
the Council relative to other entities, includ-
ing with respect to the National Security
Council and the Executive Committee of the
intelligence community.
(D) Recommendations for the future role
and operation of the Council.
(E) Such other matters relating to the
function and utility of the Council as the Di-
rector considers appropriate.
(3) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 312. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMA-
TION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CORE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘core service’’
means a capability that is available to mul-
tiple elements of the intelligence community
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S503
January 23, 2019
and required for consistent operation of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment.
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.—The term ‘‘intel-
ligence community information technology
environment’’ means all of the information
technology services across the intelligence
community, including the data sharing and
protection environment across multiple clas-
sification domains.
(b) ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(1) DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.—
The Director of National Intelligence shall
be responsible for coordinating the perform-
ance by elements of the intelligence commu-
nity of the intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment, including each
of the following:
(A) Ensuring compliance with all applica-
ble environment rules and regulations of
such environment.
(B) Ensuring measurable performance
goals exist for such environment.
(C) Documenting standards and practices
of such environment.
(D) Acting as an arbiter among elements of
the intelligence community related to any
disagreements arising out of the implemen-
tation of such environment.
(E) Delegating responsibilities to the ele-
ments of the intelligence community and
carrying out such other responsibilities as
are necessary for the effective implementa-
tion of such environment.
(2) CORE SERVICE PROVIDERS.—Providers of
core services shall be responsible for—
(A) providing core services, in coordination
with the Director of National Intelligence;
and
(B) providing the Director with informa-
tion requested and required to fulfill the re-
sponsibilities of the Director under para-
graph (1).
(3) USE OF CORE SERVICES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), each element of the intel-
ligence community shall use core services
when such services are available.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The Director of National
Intelligence may provide for a written excep-
tion to the requirement under subparagraph
(A) if the Director determines there is a com-
pelling financial or mission need for such ex-
ception.
(c) MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTABILITY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence shall designate and maintain
one or more accountable executives of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment to be responsible for—
(1) management, financial control, and in-
tegration of such environment;
(2) overseeing the performance of each core
service, including establishing measurable
service requirements and schedules;
(3) to the degree feasible, ensuring testing
of each core service of such environment, in-
cluding testing by the intended users, to
evaluate performance against measurable
service requirements and to ensure the capa-
bility meets user requirements; and
(4) coordinate transition or restructuring
efforts of such environment, including phase-
out of legacy systems.
(d) SECURITY PLAN.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall develop and maintain a security plan
for the intelligence community information
technology environment.
(e) LONG-TERM ROADMAP.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and during each of the second and
fourth fiscal quarters thereafter, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
long-term roadmap that shall include each of
the following:
(1) A description of the minimum required
and desired core service requirements, in-
cluding—
(A) key performance parameters; and
(B) an assessment of current, measured
performance.
(2) implementation milestones for the in-
telligence community information tech-
nology environment, including each of the
following:
(A) A schedule for expected deliveries of
core service capabilities during each of the
following phases:
(i) Concept refinement and technology ma-
turity demonstration.
(ii) Development, integration, and dem-
onstration.
(iii) Production, deployment, and
sustainment.
(iv) System retirement.
(B) Dependencies of such core service capa-
bilities.
(C) Plans for the transition or restruc-
turing necessary to incorporate core service
capabilities.
(D) A description of any legacy systems
and discontinued capabilities to be phased
out.
(3) Such other matters as the Director de-
termines appropriate.
(f) BUSINESS PLAN.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and during each of the second and fourth fis-
cal quarters thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a busi-
ness plan that includes each of the following:
(1) A systematic approach to identify core
service funding requests for the intelligence
community information technology environ-
ment within the proposed budget, including
multiyear plans to implement the long-term
roadmap required by subsection (e).
(2) A uniform approach by which each ele-
ment of the intelligence community shall
identify the cost of legacy information tech-
nology or alternative capabilities where
services of the intelligence community infor-
mation technology environment will also be
available.
(3) A uniform effort by which each element
of the intelligence community shall identify
transition and restructuring costs for new,
existing, and retiring services of the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, as well as services of such en-
vironment that have changed designations as
a core service.
(g) QUARTERLY PRESENTATIONS.—Beginning
not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the con-
gressional intelligence committees quarterly
updates regarding ongoing implementation
of the intelligence community information
technology environment as compared to the
requirements in the most recently submitted
security plan required by subsection (d),
long-term roadmap required by subsection
(e), and business plan required by subsection
(f).
(h) ADDITIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall provide
timely notification to the congressional in-
telligence committees regarding any policy
changes related to or affecting the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, new initiatives or strategies
related to or impacting such environment,
and changes or deficiencies in the execution
of the security plan required by subsection
(d), long-term roadmap required by sub-
section (e), and business plan required by
subsection (f)
(i) SUNSET.—The section shall have no ef-
fect on or after September 30, 2024.
SEC. 313. REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF SECURE
MOBILE VOICE SOLUTION FOR IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Director of the
National Security Agency, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
classified report on the feasibility, desir-
ability, cost, and required schedule associ-
ated with the implementation of a secure
mobile voice solution for the intelligence
community.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
(1) The benefits and disadvantages of a se-
cure mobile voice solution.
(2) Whether the intelligence community
could leverage commercially available tech-
nology for classified voice communications
that operates on commercial mobile net-
works in a secure manner and identifying
the accompanying security risks to such net-
works.
(3) A description of any policies or commu-
nity guidance that would be necessary to
govern the potential solution, such as a proc-
ess for determining the appropriate use of a
secure mobile telephone and any limitations
associated with such use.
SEC. 314. POLICY ON MINIMUM INSIDER THREAT
STANDARDS.
(a) POLICY REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall establish a policy for minimum insider
threat standards that is consistent with the
National Insider Threat Policy and Min-
imum Standards for Executive Branch In-
sider Threat Programs.
(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the head of each element of the intel-
ligence community shall implement the pol-
icy established under subsection (a).
SEC. 315. SUBMISSION OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY POLICIES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELECTRONIC REPOSITORY.—The term
‘‘electronic repository’’ means the electronic
distribution mechanism, in use as of the date
of the enactment of this Act, or any suc-
cessor electronic distribution mechanism, by
which the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the congressional intelligence
committees information.
(2) POLICY.—The term ‘‘policy’’, with re-
spect to the intelligence community, in-
cludes unclassified or classified—
(A) directives, policy guidance, and policy
memoranda of the intelligence community;
(B) executive correspondence of the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence; and
(C) any equivalent successor policy instru-
ments.
(b) SUBMISSION OF POLICIES.—
(1) CURRENT POLICY.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees using the electronic re-
pository all nonpublicly available policies
issued by the Director of National Intel-
ligence for the intelligence community that
are in effect as of the date of the submission.
(2) CONTINUOUS UPDATES.—Not later than 15
days after the date on which the Director of
National Intelligence issues, modifies, or re-
scinds a policy of the intelligence commu-
nity, the Director shall—
(A) notify the congressional intelligence
committees of such addition, modification,
or removal; and
(B) update the electronic repository with
respect to such addition, modification, or re-
moval.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S504 January 23, 2019
SEC. 316. EXPANSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY RECRUITMENT EFFORTS.
In order to further increase the diversity of
the intelligence community workforce, not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in consultation with heads of
elements of the Intelligence Community,
shall create, implement, and submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a
written plan to ensure that rural and under-
represented regions are more fully and con-
sistently represented in such elements’ em-
ployment recruitment efforts. Upon receipt
of the plan, the congressional committees
shall have 60 days to submit comments to
the Director of National Intelligence before
such plan shall be implemented.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of National
Intelligence
SEC. 401. AUTHORITY FOR PROTECTION OF CUR-
RENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF
THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
Section 5(a)(4) of the Central Intelligence
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3506(a)(4)) is
amended by striking ‘‘such personnel of the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence as the Director of National Intel-
ligence may designate;’’ and inserting ‘‘cur-
rent and former personnel of the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence and their
immediate families as the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may designate;’’.
SEC. 402. DESIGNATION OF THE PROGRAM MAN-
AGER-INFORMATION SHARING ENVI-
RONMENT.
(a) INFORMATION SHARING ENVIRONMENT.—
Section 1016(b) of the Intelligence Reform
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6
U.S.C. 485(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ and inserting ‘‘Director of National In-
telligence’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ both places that term appears and in-
serting ‘‘Director of National Intelligence’’.
(b) PROGRAM MANAGER.—Section 1016(f)(1)
of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism
Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(f)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘The individual des-
ignated as the program manager shall serve
as program manager until removed from
service or replaced by the President (at the
President’s sole discretion).’’ and inserting
‘‘Beginning on the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019, each individual
designated as the program manager shall be
appointed by the Director of National Intel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 403. TECHNICAL MODIFICATION TO THE EX-
ECUTIVE SCHEDULE.
Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Director of the National Counterintel-
ligence and Security Center.’’.
SEC. 404. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103I(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3034(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Financial Officer shall re-
port directly to the Director of National In-
telligence.’’.
SEC. 405. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Information Officer shall
report directly to the Director of National
Intelligence.’’.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
SEC. 411. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY SUB-
SISTENCE FOR PERSONNEL AS-
SIGNED TO AUSTERE LOCATIONS.
Subsection (a) of section 5 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C.
3506) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(50 U.S.C.
403–4a).,’’ and inserting ‘‘(50 U.S.C. 403–4a),’’;
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (7), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph (8):
‘‘(8) Upon the approval of the Director, pro-
vide, during any fiscal year, with or without
reimbursement, subsistence to any personnel
assigned to an overseas location designated
by the Agency as an austere location.’’.
SEC. 412. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN MONTH-
LY WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PAY-
MENTS AND OTHER PAYMENTS FOR
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
PERSONNEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Central Intelligence
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 19 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 19A. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN INDI-
VIDUALS INJURED BY REASON OF
WAR, INSURGENCY, HOSTILE ACT,
OR TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED DEPENDENT.—The term ‘cov-
ered dependent’ means a family member (as
defined by the Director) of a covered em-
ployee who, on or after September 11, 2001—
‘‘(A) accompanies the covered employee to
an assigned duty station in a foreign coun-
try; and
‘‘(B) becomes injured by reason of a quali-
fying injury.
‘‘(2) COVERED EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘cov-
ered employee’ means an officer or employee
of the Central Intelligence Agency who, on
or after September 11, 2001, becomes injured
by reason of a qualifying injury.
‘‘(3) COVERED INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘cov-
ered individual’ means an individual who—
‘‘(A)(i) is detailed to the Central Intel-
ligence Agency from other agencies of the
United States Government or from the
Armed Forces; or
‘‘(ii) is affiliated with the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, as determined by the Direc-
tor; and
‘‘(B) who, on or after September 11, 2001,
becomes injured by reason of a qualifying in-
jury.
‘‘(4) QUALIFYING INJURY.—The term ‘quali-
fying injury’ means the following:
‘‘(A) With respect to a covered dependent,
an injury incurred—
‘‘(i) during war, insurgency, hostile act, or
terrorist activities occurring during a period
in which the covered dependent is accom-
panying the covered employee to an assigned
duty station in a foreign country; and
‘‘(ii) that was not the result of the willful
misconduct of the covered dependent.
‘‘(B) With respect to a covered employee or
a covered individual, an injury incurred—
‘‘(i) during war, insurgency, hostile act, or
terrorist activities occurring during a period
of assignment to a duty station in a foreign
country; and
‘‘(ii) that was not the result of the willful
misconduct of the covered employee or the
covered individual.
‘‘(b) ADJUSTMENT OF COMPENSATION FOR
CERTAIN INJURIES.—
‘‘(1) INCREASE.—The Director may increase
the amount of monthly compensation paid to
a covered employee under section 8105 of
title 5, United States Code. Subject to para-
graph (2), the Director may determine the
amount of each such increase by taking into
account—
‘‘(A) the severity of the qualifying injury;
‘‘(B) the circumstances by which the cov-
ered employee became injured; and
‘‘(C) the seniority of the covered employee.
‘‘(2) MAXIMUM.—Notwithstanding chapter
81 of title 5, United States Code, the total
amount of monthly compensation increased
under paragraph (1) may not exceed the
monthly pay of the maximum rate of basic
pay for GS–15 of the General Schedule under
section 5332 of such title.
‘‘(c) COSTS FOR TREATING QUALIFYING INJU-
RIES.—The Director may pay the costs of
treating a qualifying injury of a covered em-
ployee, a covered individual, or a covered de-
pendent, or may reimburse a covered em-
ployee, a covered individual, or a covered de-
pendent for such costs, that are not other-
wise covered by chapter 81 of title 5, United
States Code, or other provision of Federal
law.
‘‘(d) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS.—For pur-
poses of section 104 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, amounts paid pursuant to this
section shall be treated as amounts paid
under chapter 81 of title 5, United States
Code.’’.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency shall—
(1) prescribe regulations ensuring the fair
and equitable implementation of section 19A
of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of
1949, as added by subsection (a); and
(2) submit to the congressional intelligence
committees such regulations.
(c) APPLICATION.—Section 19A of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as added
by subsection (a), shall apply with respect
to—
(1) payments made to covered employees
(as defined in such section) under section
8105 of title 5, United States Code, beginning
on or after the date of the enactment of this
Act; and
(2) treatment described in subsection (b) of
such section 19A occurring on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 413. EXPANSION OF SECURITY PROTECTIVE
SERVICE JURISDICTION OF THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
Subsection (a) of section 15 of the Central
Intelligence Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3515(a)) is
amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘POLICEMEN’’ and inserting ‘‘POLICE OFFI-
CERS’’; and
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘500
feet;’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards;’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘500
feet.’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards.’’.
SEC. 414. REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT FOR CER-
TAIN SENIOR LEVEL POSITIONS IN
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY.
(a) REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT.—Section 104A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3036)
is amended by striking subsection (g).
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL OF REPORT RE-
QUIREMENT.—Section 611 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Pub-
lic Law 108–487) is amended by striking sub-
section (c).
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence of Department of Energy
SEC. 421. CONSOLIDATION OF DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY OFFICES OF INTELLIGENCE
AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 215 of the Depart-
ment of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C.
7144b) is amended to read as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S505
January 23, 2019
‘‘OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE AND
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
‘‘SEC. 215. (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section,
the terms ‘intelligence community’ and ‘Na-
tional Intelligence Program’ have the mean-
ings given such terms in section 3 of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
‘‘(b) IN GENERAL.—There is in the Depart-
ment an Office of Intelligence and Counter-
intelligence. Such office shall be under the
National Intelligence Program.
‘‘(c) DIRECTOR.—(1) The head of the Office
shall be the Director of the Office of Intel-
ligence and Counterintelligence, who shall
be an employee in the Senior Executive
Service, the Senior Intelligence Service, the
Senior National Intelligence Service, or any
other Service that the Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the Director of National Intel-
ligence, considers appropriate. The Director
of the Office shall report directly to the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall select an indi-
vidual to serve as the Director from among
individuals who have substantial expertise in
matters relating to the intelligence commu-
nity, including foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence.
‘‘(d) DUTIES.—(1) Subject to the authority,
direction, and control of the Secretary, the
Director shall perform such duties and exer-
cise such powers as the Secretary may pre-
scribe.
‘‘(2) The Director shall be responsible for
establishing policy for intelligence and coun-
terintelligence programs and activities at
the Department.’’.
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL.—Section 216 of
the Department of Energy Organization Act
(42 U.S.C. 7144c) is hereby repealed.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents at the beginning of the Department
of Energy Organization Act is amended by
striking the items relating to sections 215
and 216 and inserting the following new item:
‘‘215. Office of Intelligence and Counterintel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 422. ESTABLISHMENT OF ENERGY INFRA-
STRUCTURE SECURITY CENTER.
Section 215 of the Department of Energy
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144b), as amend-
ed by section 421, is further amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(e) ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY
CENTER.—(1)(A) The President shall establish
an Energy Infrastructure Security Center,
taking into account all appropriate govern-
ment tools to analyze and disseminate intel-
ligence relating to the security of the energy
infrastructure of the United States.
‘‘(B) The Secretary shall appoint the head
of the Energy Infrastructure Security Cen-
ter.
‘‘(C) The Energy Infrastructure Security
Center shall be located within the Office of
Intelligence and Counterintelligence.
‘‘(2) In establishing the Energy Infrastruc-
ture Security Center, the Director of the Of-
fice of Intelligence and Counterintelligence
shall address the following missions and ob-
jectives to coordinate and disseminate intel-
ligence relating to the security of the energy
infrastructure of the United States:
‘‘(A) Establishing a primary organization
within the United States Government for
analyzing and integrating all intelligence
possessed or acquired by the United States
pertaining to the security of the energy in-
frastructure of the United States.
‘‘(B) Ensuring that appropriate depart-
ments and agencies have full access to and
receive intelligence support needed to exe-
cute the plans or activities of the agencies,
and perform independent, alternative anal-
yses.
‘‘(C) Establishing a central repository on
known and suspected foreign threats to the
energy infrastructure of the United States,
including with respect to any individuals,
groups, or entities engaged in activities tar-
geting such infrastructure, and the goals,
strategies, capabilities, and networks of such
individuals, groups, or entities.
‘‘(D) Disseminating intelligence informa-
tion relating to the security of the energy
infrastructure of the United States, includ-
ing threats and analyses, to the President, to
the appropriate departments and agencies,
and to the appropriate committees of Con-
gress.
‘‘(3) The President may waive the require-
ments of this subsection, and any parts
thereof, if the President determines that
such requirements do not materially im-
prove the ability of the United States Gov-
ernment to prevent and halt attacks against
the energy infrastructure of the United
States. Such waiver shall be made in writing
to Congress and shall include a description of
how the missions and objectives in para-
graph (2) are being met.
‘‘(4) If the President decides not to exercise
the waiver authority granted by paragraph
(3), the President shall submit to Congress
from time to time updates and plans regard-
ing the establishment of an Energy Infra-
structure Security Center.’’.
SEC. 423. REPEAL OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
INTELLIGENCE EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE AND BUDGET REPORTING
REQUIREMENT.
Section 214 of the Department of Energy
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144a) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘(a) DUTY OF SECRETARY.—
’’; and
(2) by striking subsections (b) and (c).
Subtitle D—Other Elements
SEC. 431. PLAN FOR DESIGNATION OF COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE COMPONENT OF DE-
FENSE SECURITY SERVICE AS AN
ELEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence and Under Secretary of
Defense for Intelligence, in coordination
with the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center, shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees, the Committee on Armed Services
of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives a
plan to designate the counterintelligence
component of the Defense Security Service
of the Department of Defense as an element
of the intelligence community by not later
than January 1, 2019. Such plan shall—
(1) address the implications of such des-
ignation on the authorities, governance, per-
sonnel, resources, information technology,
collection, analytic products, information
sharing, and business processes of the De-
fense Security Service and the intelligence
community; and
(2) not address the personnel security func-
tions of the Defense Security Service.
SEC. 432. NOTICE NOT REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE
ENTITIES.
Section 3553 of title 44, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (j) as sub-
section (k); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to require the
Secretary to provide notice to any private
entity before the Secretary issues a binding
operational directive under subsection
(b)(2).’’.
SEC. 433. FRAMEWORK FOR ROLES, MISSIONS,
AND FUNCTIONS OF DEFENSE IN-
TELLIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense
shall jointly establish a framework to ensure
the appropriate balance of resources for the
roles, missions, and functions of the Defense
Intelligence Agency in its capacity as an ele-
ment of the intelligence community and as a
combat support agency. The framework shall
include supporting processes to provide for
the consistent and regular reevaluation of
the responsibilities and resources of the De-
fense Intelligence Agency to prevent imbal-
anced priorities, insufficient or misaligned
resources, and the unauthorized expansion of
mission parameters.
(b) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The frame-
work required under subsection (a) shall in-
clude each of the following:
(1) A lexicon providing for consistent defi-
nitions of relevant terms used by both the
intelligence community and the Department
of Defense, including each of the following:
(A) Defense intelligence enterprise.
(B) Enterprise manager.
(C) Executive agent.
(D) Function.
(E) Functional manager.
(F) Mission.
(G) Mission manager.
(H) Responsibility.
(I) Role.
(J) Service of common concern.
(2) An assessment of the necessity of main-
taining separate designations for the intel-
ligence community and the Department of
Defense for intelligence functional or enter-
prise management constructs.
(3) A repeatable process for evaluating the
addition, transfer, or elimination of defense
intelligence missions, roles, and functions,
currently performed or to be performed in
the future by the Defense Intelligence Agen-
cy, which includes each of the following:
(A) A justification for the addition, trans-
fer, or elimination of a mission, role, or func-
tion.
(B) The identification of which, if any, ele-
ment of the Federal Government performs
the considered mission, role, or function.
(C) In the case of any new mission, role, or
function—
(i) an assessment of the most appropriate
agency or element to perform such mission,
role, or function, taking into account the re-
source profiles, scope of responsibilities, pri-
mary customers, and existing infrastructure
necessary to support such mission, role, or
function; and
(ii) a determination of the appropriate re-
source profile and an identification of the
projected resources needed and the proposed
source of such resources over the future-
years defense program, to be provided in
writing to any elements of the intelligence
community or the Department of Defense af-
fected by the assumption, transfer, or elimi-
nation of any mission, role, or function.
(D) In the case of any mission, role, or
function proposed to be assumed, trans-
ferred, or eliminated, an assessment, which
shall be completed jointly by the heads of
each element affected by such assumption,
transfer, or elimination, of the risks that
would be assumed by the intelligence com-
munity and the Department if such mission,
role, or function is assumed, transferred, or
eliminated.
(E) A description of how determinations
are made regarding the funding of programs
and activities under the National Intel-
ligence Program and the Military Intel-
ligence Program, including—
(i) which programs or activities are funded
under each such Program;
(ii) which programs or activities should be
jointly funded under both such Programs and
how determinations are made with respect to
funding allocations for such programs and
activities; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S506 January 23, 2019
(iii) the thresholds and process for chang-
ing a program or activity from being funded
under one such Program to being funded
under the other such Program.
SEC. 434. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY BOARD
FOR NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE
OFFICE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 106A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3041a) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(d) ADVISORY BOARD.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the National Reconnaissance Office an ad-
visory board (in this section referred to as
the ‘Board’).
‘‘(2) DUTIES.—The Board shall—
‘‘(A) study matters relating to the mission
of the National Reconnaissance Office, in-
cluding with respect to promoting innova-
tion, competition, and resilience in space,
overhead reconnaissance, acquisition, and
other matters; and
‘‘(B) advise and report directly to the Di-
rector with respect to such matters.
‘‘(3) MEMBERS.—
‘‘(A) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall be com-
posed of 5 members appointed by the Direc-
tor from among individuals with dem-
onstrated academic, government, business,
or other expertise relevant to the mission
and functions of the National Reconnais-
sance Office.
‘‘(ii) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Director ap-
points a member to the Board, the Director
shall notify the congressional intelligence
committees and the congressional defense
committees (as defined in section 101(a) of
title 10, United States Code) of such appoint-
ment.
‘‘(B) TERMS.—Each member shall be ap-
pointed for a term of 2 years. Except as pro-
vided by subparagraph (C), a member may
not serve more than 3 terms.
‘‘(C) VACANCY.—Any member appointed to
fill a vacancy occurring before the expira-
tion of the term for which the member’s
predecessor was appointed shall be appointed
only for the remainder of that term. A mem-
ber may serve after the expiration of that
member’s term until a successor has taken
office.
‘‘(D) CHAIR.—The Board shall have a Chair,
who shall be appointed by the Director from
among the members.
‘‘(E) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Each member
shall receive travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance
with applicable provisions under subchapter
I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(F) EXECUTIVE SECRETARY.—The Director
may appoint an executive secretary, who
shall be an employee of the National Recon-
naissance Office, to support the Board.
‘‘(4) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet not
less than quarterly, but may meet more fre-
quently at the call of the Director.
‘‘(5) REPORTS.—Not later than March 31 of
each year, the Board shall submit to the Di-
rector and to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the activities and
significant findings of the Board during the
preceding year.
‘‘(6) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the
Board.
‘‘(7) TERMINATION.—The Board shall termi-
nate on the date that is 3 years after the
date of the first meeting of the Board.’’.
(b) INITIAL APPOINTMENTS.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of the National Recon-
naissance Office shall appoint the initial 5
members to the advisory board under sub-
section (d) of section 106A of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a), as
added by subsection (a).
SEC. 435. COLLOCATION OF CERTAIN DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
PERSONNEL AT FIELD LOCATIONS.
(a) IDENTIFICATION OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
COLLOCATION.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis shall identify, in
consultation with the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, the Admin-
istrator of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, the Director of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, and the
heads of such other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security as the Under
Secretary considers appropriate, opportuni-
ties for collocation of officers of the Office of
Intelligence and Analysis in the field outside
of the greater Washington, District of Co-
lumbia, area in order to support operational
units from U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration, U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, and other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
(b) PLAN FOR COLLOCATION.—Not later than
120 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit
to the congressional intelligence committees
a report that includes a plan for collocation
as described in subsection (a).
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
SEC. 501. REPORT ON CYBER ATTACKS BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES ELECTION INFRA-
STRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(D) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate; and
(E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means any
State of the United States, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity for Intelligence and Analysis shall sub-
mit to congressional leadership and the ap-
propriate congressional committees a report
on cyber attacks and attempted cyber at-
tacks by foreign governments on United
States election infrastructure in States and
localities in connection with the 2016 Presi-
dential election in the United States and
such cyber attacks or attempted cyber at-
tacks as the Under Secretary anticipates
against such infrastructure. Such report
shall identify the States and localities af-
fected and shall include cyber attacks and
attempted cyber attacks against voter reg-
istration databases, voting machines, voting-
related computer networks, and the net-
works of Secretaries of State and other elec-
tion officials of the various States.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 502. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY’S POSTURE TO COLLECT
AGAINST AND ANALYZE RUSSIAN EF-
FORTS TO INFLUENCE THE PRESI-
DENTIAL ELECTION.
(a) REVIEW REQUIRED.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall—
(1) complete an after action review of the
posture of the intelligence community to
collect against and analyze efforts of the
Government of Russia to interfere in the 2016
Presidential election in the United States;
and
(2) submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the findings of the
Director with respect to such review.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The review required by
subsection (a) shall include, with respect to
the posture and efforts described in para-
graph (1) of such subsection, the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the resources
of the intelligence community were properly
aligned to detect and respond to the efforts
described in subsection (a)(1).
(2) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred within elements of the in-
telligence community.
(3) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred between elements of the
intelligence community.
(4) An assessment of applicable authorities
necessary to collect on any such efforts and
any deficiencies in those authorities.
(5) A review of the use of open source mate-
rial to inform analysis and warning of such
efforts.
(6) A review of the use of alternative and
predictive analysis.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (a)(2) shall be submitted to the
congressional intelligence committees in a
classified form.
SEC. 503. ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN INTEL-
LIGENCE THREATS TO FEDERAL
ELECTIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 102 of the Cyber-
security Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6
U.S.C. 1501).
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Direc-
tor of the Central Intelligence Agency, the
Director of the National Security Agency,
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, and the heads of other relevant ele-
ments of the intelligence community, shall—
(1) commence not later than 1 year before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, and com-
plete not later than 180 days before such
election, an assessment of security
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S507
January 23, 2019
vulnerabilities of State election systems;
and
(2) not later than 180 days before any regu-
larly scheduled Federal election occurring
after December 31, 2018, submit a report on
such security vulnerabilities and an assess-
ment of foreign intelligence threats to the
election to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
(c) UPDATE.—Not later than 90 days before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, the Director
of National Intelligence shall—
(1) update the assessment of foreign intel-
ligence threats to that election; and
(2) submit the updated assessment to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
SEC. 504. STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING RUSSIAN
CYBER THREATS TO UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(4) The Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
(5) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR A STRATEGY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Di-
rector of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of De-
fense, and the Secretary of the Treasury,
shall develop a whole-of-government strat-
egy for countering the threat of Russian
cyber attacks and attempted cyber attacks
against electoral systems and processes in
the United States, including Federal, State,
and local election systems, voter registra-
tion databases, voting tabulation equipment,
and equipment and processes for the secure
transmission of election results.
(c) ELEMENTS OF THE STRATEGY.—The
strategy required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude the following elements:
(1) A whole-of-government approach to pro-
tecting United States electoral systems and
processes that includes the agencies and de-
partments indicated in subsection (b) as well
as any other agencies and departments of the
United States, as determined appropriate by
the Director of National Intelligence and the
Secretary of Homeland Security.
(2) Input solicited from Secretaries of
State of the various States and the chief
election officials of the States.
(3) Technical security measures, including
auditable paper trails for voting machines,
securing wireless and Internet connections,
and other technical safeguards.
(4) Detection of cyber threats, including
attacks and attempted attacks by Russian
government or nongovernment cyber threat
actors.
(5) Improvements in the identification and
attribution of Russian government or non-
government cyber threat actors.
(6) Deterrence, including actions and meas-
ures that could or should be undertaken
against or communicated to the Government
of Russia or other entities to deter attacks
against, or interference with, United States
election systems and processes.
(7) Improvements in Federal Government
communications with State and local elec-
tion officials.
(8) Public education and communication
efforts.
(9) Benchmarks and milestones to enable
the measurement of concrete steps taken
and progress made in the implementation of
the strategy.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence and the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity shall jointly brief the appropriate con-
gressional committees on the strategy devel-
oped under subsection (b).
SEC. 505. ASSESSMENT OF SIGNIFICANT RUSSIAN
INFLUENCE CAMPAIGNS DIRECTED
AT FOREIGN ELECTIONS AND
REFERENDA.
(a) RUSSIAN INFLUENCE CAMPAIGN DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Russian
influence campaign’’ means any effort, cov-
ert or overt, and by any means, attributable
to the Russian Federation directed at an
election, referendum, or similar process in a
country other than the Russian Federation
or the United States.
(b) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
60 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report containing an
analytical assessment of the most signifi-
cant Russian influence campaigns, if any,
conducted during the 3-year period preceding
the date of the enactment of this Act, as well
as the most significant current or planned
such Russian influence campaigns, if any.
Such assessment shall include—
(1) a summary of such significant Russian
influence campaigns, including, at a min-
imum, the specific means by which such
campaigns were conducted, are being con-
ducted, or likely will be conducted, as appro-
priate, and the specific goal of each such
campaign;
(2) a summary of any defenses against or
responses to such Russian influence cam-
paigns by the foreign state holding the elec-
tions or referenda;
(3) a summary of any relevant activities by
elements of the intelligence community un-
dertaken for the purpose of assisting the
government of such foreign state in defend-
ing against or responding to such Russian in-
fluence campaigns; and
(4) an assessment of the effectiveness of
such defenses and responses described in
paragraphs (2) and (3).
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) may be submitted in classified
form, but if so submitted, shall contain an
unclassified summary.
SEC. 506. FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND
CYBERSECURITY THREATS TO FED-
ERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As provided in paragraph
(2), for each Federal election, the Director of
National Intelligence, in coordination with
the Under Secretary of Homeland Security
for Intelligence and Analysis and the Direc-
tor of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
shall make publicly available on an Internet
website an advisory report on foreign coun-
terintelligence and cybersecurity threats to
election campaigns for Federal offices. Each
such report shall include, consistent with
the protection of sources and methods, each
of the following:
(A) A description of foreign counterintel-
ligence and cybersecurity threats to election
campaigns for Federal offices.
(B) A summary of best practices that elec-
tion campaigns for Federal offices can em-
ploy in seeking to counter such threats.
(C) An identification of any publicly avail-
able resources, including United States Gov-
ernment resources, for countering such
threats.
(2) SCHEDULE FOR SUBMITTAL.—A report
under this subsection shall be made avail-
able as follows:
(A) In the case of a report regarding an
election held for the office of Senator or
Member of the House of Representatives dur-
ing 2018, not later than the date that is 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(B) In the case of a report regarding an
election for a Federal office during any sub-
sequent year, not later than the date that is
1 year before the date of the election.
(3) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED.—A report
under this subsection shall reflect the most
current information available to the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence regarding for-
eign counterintelligence and cybersecurity
threats.
(b) TREATMENT OF CAMPAIGNS SUBJECT TO
HEIGHTENED THREATS.—If the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis jointly determine
that an election campaign for Federal office
is subject to a heightened foreign counter-
intelligence or cybersecurity threat, the Di-
rector and the Under Secretary, consistent
with the protection of sources and methods,
may make available additional information
to the appropriate representatives of such
campaign.
SEC. 507. INFORMATION SHARING WITH STATE
ELECTION OFFICIALS.
(a) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ means any State of the United
States, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory
or possession of the United States.
(b) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
support the Under Secretary of Homeland
Security for Intelligence and Analysis, and
any other official of the Department of
Homeland Security designated by the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, in sponsoring a
security clearance up to the top secret level
for each eligible chief election official of a
State or the District of Columbia, and addi-
tional eligible designees of such election offi-
cial as appropriate, at the time that such
election official assumes such position.
(2) INTERIM CLEARANCES.—Consistent with
applicable policies and directives, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence may issue in-
terim clearances, for a period to be deter-
mined by the Director, to a chief election of-
ficial as described in paragraph (1) and up to
1 designee of such official under such para-
graph.
(c) INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall assist the Under Secretary
of Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis and the Under Secretary respon-
sible for overseeing critical infrastructure
protection, cybersecurity, and other related
programs of the Department (as specified in
section 103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 113(a)(1)(H))) with shar-
ing any appropriate classified information
related to threats to election systems and to
the integrity of the election process with
chief election officials and such designees
who have received a security clearance under
subsection (b).
(2) COORDINATION.—The Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis shall coordinate with the Director
of National Intelligence and the Under Sec-
retary responsible for overseeing critical in-
frastructure protection, cybersecurity, and
other related programs of the Department
(as specified in section 103(a)(1)(H) of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S508 January 23, 2019
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
113(a)(1)(H))) to facilitate the sharing of in-
formation to the affected Secretaries of
State or States.
SEC. 508. NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND AC-
TIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGNS DI-
RECTED AT ELECTIONS FOR FED-
ERAL OFFICES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGN.—The term
‘‘active measures campaign’’ means a foreign
semi-covert or covert intelligence operation.
(2) CANDIDATE, ELECTION, AND POLITICAL
PARTY.—The terms ‘‘candidate’’, ‘‘election’’,
and ‘‘political party’’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 301 of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101).
(3) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(4) CYBER INTRUSION.—The term ‘‘cyber in-
trusion’’ means an electronic occurrence
that actually or imminently jeopardizes,
without lawful authority, electronic election
infrastructure, or the integrity, confiden-
tiality, or availability of information within
such infrastructure.
(5) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUC-
TURE.—The term ‘‘electronic election infra-
structure’’ means an electronic information
system of any of the following that is related
to an election for Federal office:
(A) The Federal Government.
(B) A State or local government.
(C) A political party.
(D) The election campaign of a candidate.
(6) FEDERAL OFFICE.—The term ‘‘Federal
office’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
(7) HIGH CONFIDENCE.—The term ‘‘high con-
fidence’’, with respect to a determination,
means that the determination is based on
high-quality information from multiple
sources.
(8) MODERATE CONFIDENCE.—The term
‘‘moderate confidence’’, with respect to a de-
termination, means that a determination is
credibly sourced and plausible but not of suf-
ficient quality or corroborated sufficiently
to warrant a higher level of confidence.
(9) OTHER APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL
COMMITTEES.—The term ‘‘other appropriate
congressional committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
(b) DETERMINATIONS OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGNS.—The Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall jointly carry out
subsection (c) if such Directors and the Sec-
retary jointly determine—
(1) that on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, a significant foreign cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign in-
tended to influence an upcoming election for
any Federal office has occurred or is occur-
ring; and
(2) with moderate or high confidence, that
such intrusion or campaign can be attributed
to a foreign state or to a foreign nonstate
person, group, or other entity.
(c) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 14 days
after making a determination under sub-
section (b), the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall jointly provide a briefing
to the congressional leadership, the congres-
sional intelligence committees and, con-
sistent with the protection of sources and
methods, the other appropriate congres-
sional committees. The briefing shall be
classified and address, at a minimum, the
following:
(A) A description of the significant foreign
cyber intrusion or active measures cam-
paign, as the case may be, covered by the de-
termination.
(B) An identification of the foreign state or
foreign nonstate person, group, or other enti-
ty, to which such intrusion or campaign has
been attributed.
(C) The desirability and feasibility of the
public release of information about the cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign.
(D) Any other information such Directors
and the Secretary jointly determine appro-
priate.
(2) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
BRIEFINGS.—With respect to a significant for-
eign cyber intrusion covered by a determina-
tion under subsection (b), the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Director of National Intelligence and the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall offer to the owner or operator of
any electronic election infrastructure di-
rectly affected by such intrusion, a briefing
on such intrusion, including steps that may
be taken to mitigate such intrusion. Such
briefing may be classified and made avail-
able only to individuals with appropriate se-
curity clearances.
(3) PROTECTION OF SOURCES AND METHODS.—
This subsection shall be carried out in a
manner that is consistent with the protec-
tion of sources and methods.
SEC. 509. DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER TO LEAD ELEC-
TION SECURITY MATTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall designate a national coun-
terintelligence officer within the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center to
lead, manage, and coordinate counterintel-
ligence matters relating to election security.
(b) ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.—The per-
son designated under subsection (a) shall
also lead, manage, and coordinate counter-
intelligence matters relating to risks posed
by interference from foreign powers (as de-
fined in section 101 of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C.
1801)) to the following:
(1) The Federal Government election secu-
rity supply chain.
(2) Election voting systems and software.
(3) Voter registration databases.
(4) Critical infrastructure related to elec-
tions.
(5) Such other Government goods and serv-
ices as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(E) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(F) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives;
(G) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives; and
(H) the Committee on Oversight and Gov-
ernment Reform of the House of Representa-
tives.
(2) APPROPRIATE INDUSTRY PARTNERS.—The
term ‘‘appropriate industry partner’’ means
a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined
in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to National Indus-
trial Security Program)) that is partici-
pating in the National Industrial Security
Program established by such Executive
Order.
(3) CONTINUOUS VETTING.—The term ‘‘con-
tinuous vetting’’ has the meaning given such
term in Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information).
(4) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing
Performance Accountability Council estab-
lished pursuant to such Executive Order, or
any successor entity.
(5) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘‘Security Executive Agent’’ means the offi-
cer serving as the Security Executive Agent
pursuant to section 803 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947, as added by section 605.
(6) SUITABILITY AND CREDENTIALING EXECU-
TIVE AGENT.—The term ‘‘Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent’’ means the
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment acting as the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent in accordance
with Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information), or any successor entity.
SEC. 602. REPORTS AND PLANS RELATING TO SE-
CURITY CLEARANCES AND BACK-
GROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) ensuring the trustworthiness and secu-
rity of the workforce, facilities, and informa-
tion of the Federal Government is of the
highest priority to national security and
public safety;
(2) the President and Congress should
prioritize the modernization of the personnel
security framework to improve its effi-
ciency, effectiveness, and accountability;
(3) the current system for security clear-
ance, suitability and fitness for employment,
and credentialing lacks efficiencies and ca-
pabilities to meet the current threat envi-
ronment, recruit and retain a trusted work-
force, and capitalize on modern technologies;
and
(4) changes to policies or processes to im-
prove this system should be vetted through
the Council to ensure standardization, port-
ability, and reciprocity in security clear-
ances across the Federal Government.
(b) ACCOUNTABILITY PLANS AND REPORTS.—
(1) PLANS.—Not later than 90 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners the following:
(A) A plan, with milestones, to reduce the
background investigation inventory to
200,000, or an otherwise sustainable steady-
level, by the end of year 2020. Such plan shall
include notes of any required changes in in-
vestigative and adjudicative standards or re-
sources.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S509
January 23, 2019
(B) A plan to consolidate the conduct of
background investigations associated with
the processing for security clearances in the
most effective and efficient manner between
the National Background Investigation Bu-
reau and the Defense Security Service, or a
successor organization. Such plan shall ad-
dress required funding, personnel, contracts,
information technology, field office struc-
ture, policy, governance, schedule, transition
costs, and effects on stakeholders.
(2) REPORT ON THE FUTURE OF PERSONNEL
SECURITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chairman of the Council, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report on the future of
personnel security to reflect changes in
threats, the workforce, and technology.
(B) CONTENTS.—The report submitted
under subparagraph (A) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(i) A risk framework for granting and re-
newing access to classified information.
(ii) A discussion of the use of technologies
to prevent, detect, and monitor threats.
(iii) A discussion of efforts to address reci-
procity and portability.
(iv) A discussion of the characteristics of
effective insider threat programs.
(v) An analysis of how to integrate data
from continuous evaluation, insider threat
programs, and human resources data.
(vi) Recommendations on interagency gov-
ernance.
(3) PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Chairman of the Council, in
coordination with the members of the Coun-
cil, shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to imple-
ment the report’s framework and rec-
ommendations submitted under paragraph
(2)(A).
(4) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—Not less
frequently than quarterly, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall make available to the
public a report regarding the status of the
disposition of requests received from depart-
ments and agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment for a change to, or approval under, the
Federal investigative standards, the national
adjudicative guidelines, continuous evalua-
tion, or other national policy regarding per-
sonnel security.
SEC. 603. IMPROVING THE PROCESS FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES.
(a) REVIEWS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that includes the
following:
(1) A review of whether the information re-
quested on the Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (Standard Form 86) and
by the Federal Investigative Standards pre-
scribed by the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment and the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence appropriately supports
the adjudicative guidelines under Security
Executive Agent Directive 4 (known as the
‘‘National Security Adjudicative Guide-
lines’’). Such review shall include identifica-
tion of whether any such information cur-
rently collected is unnecessary to support
the adjudicative guidelines.
(2) An assessment of whether such Ques-
tionnaire, Standards, and guidelines should
be revised to account for the prospect of a
holder of a security clearance becoming an
insider threat.
(3) Recommendations to improve the back-
ground investigation process by—
(A) simplifying the Questionnaire for Na-
tional Security Positions (Standard Form 86)
and increasing customer support to appli-
cants completing such Questionnaire;
(B) using remote techniques and central-
ized locations to support or replace field in-
vestigation work;
(C) using secure and reliable digitization of
information obtained during the clearance
process;
(D) building the capacity of the back-
ground investigation labor sector; and
(E) replacing periodic reinvestigations
with continuous evaluation techniques in all
appropriate circumstances.
(b) POLICY, STRATEGY, AND IMPLEMENTA-
TION.—Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Security
Executive Agent shall, in coordination with
the members of the Council, establish the
following:
(1) A policy and implementation plan for
the issuance of interim security clearances.
(2) A policy and implementation plan to
ensure contractors are treated consistently
in the security clearance process across
agencies and departments of the United
States as compared to employees of such
agencies and departments. Such policy shall
address—
(A) prioritization of processing security
clearances based on the mission the contrac-
tors will be performing;
(B) standardization in the forms that agen-
cies issue to initiate the process for a secu-
rity clearance;
(C) digitization of background investiga-
tion-related forms;
(D) use of the polygraph;
(E) the application of the adjudicative
guidelines under Security Executive Agent
Directive 4 (known as the ‘‘National Secu-
rity Adjudicative Guidelines’’);
(F) reciprocal recognition of clearances
across agencies and departments of the
United States, regardless of status of peri-
odic reinvestigation;
(G) tracking of clearance files as individ-
uals move from employment with an agency
or department of the United States to em-
ployment in the private sector;
(H) collection of timelines for movement of
contractors across agencies and depart-
ments;
(I) reporting on security incidents and job
performance, consistent with section 552a of
title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Privacy Act of 1974’’), that
may affect the ability to hold a security
clearance;
(J) any recommended changes to the Fed-
eral Acquisition Regulations (FAR) nec-
essary to ensure that information affecting
contractor clearances or suitability is appro-
priately and expeditiously shared between
and among agencies and contractors; and
(K) portability of contractor security
clearances between or among contracts at
the same agency and between or among con-
tracts at different agencies that require the
same level of clearance.
(3) A strategy and implementation plan
that—
(A) provides for periodic reinvestigations
as part of a security clearance determination
only on an as-needed, risk-based basis;
(B) includes actions to assess the extent to
which automated records checks and other
continuous evaluation methods may be used
to expedite or focus reinvestigations; and
(C) provides an exception for certain popu-
lations if the Security Executive Agent—
(i) determines such populations require re-
investigations at regular intervals; and
(ii) provides written justification to the
appropriate congressional committees for
any such determination.
(4) A policy and implementation plan for
agencies and departments of the United
States, as a part of the security clearance
process, to accept automated records checks
generated pursuant to a security clearance
applicant’s employment with a prior em-
ployer.
(5) A policy for the use of certain back-
ground materials on individuals collected by
the private sector for background investiga-
tion purposes.
(6) Uniform standards for agency contin-
uous evaluation programs to ensure quality
and reciprocity in accepting enrollment in a
continuous vetting program as a substitute
for a periodic investigation for continued ac-
cess to classified information.
SEC. 604. GOALS FOR PROMPTNESS OF DETER-
MINATIONS REGARDING SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) RECIPROCITY DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘reciprocity’’ means reciprocal rec-
ognition by Federal departments and agen-
cies of eligibility for access to classified in-
formation.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Council shall reform
the security clearance process with the ob-
jective that, by December 31, 2021, 90 percent
of all determinations, other than determina-
tions regarding populations identified under
section 603(b)(3)(C), regarding—
(1) security clearances—
(A) at the secret level are issued in 30 days
or fewer; and
(B) at the top secret level are issued in 90
days or fewer; and
(2) reciprocity of security clearances at the
same level are recognized in 2 weeks or
fewer.
(c) CERTAIN REINVESTIGATIONS.—The Coun-
cil shall reform the security clearance proc-
ess with the goal that by December 31, 2021,
reinvestigation on a set periodicity is not re-
quired for more than 10 percent of the popu-
lation that holds a security clearance.
(d) EQUIVALENT METRICS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Council develops a
set of performance metrics that it certifies
to the appropriate congressional committees
should achieve substantially equivalent out-
comes as those outlined in subsections (b)
and (c), the Council may use those metrics
for purposes of compliance within this provi-
sion.
(2) NOTICE.—If the Council uses the author-
ity provided by paragraph (1) to use metrics
as described in such paragraph, the Council
shall, not later than 30 days after commu-
nicating such metrics to departments and
agencies, notify the appropriate congres-
sional committees that it is using such au-
thority.
(e) PLAN.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to carry
out this section. Such plan shall include rec-
ommended interim milestones for the goals
set forth in subsections (b) and (c) for 2019,
2020, and 2021.
SEC. 605. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VIII of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 803 and 804 as
sections 804 and 805, respectively; and
(2) by inserting after section 802 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 803. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, or such other officer of the
United States as the President may des-
ignate, shall serve as the Security Executive
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S510 January 23, 2019
Agent for all departments and agencies of
the United States.
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The duties of the Security
Executive Agent are as follows:
‘‘(1) To direct the oversight of investiga-
tions, reinvestigations, adjudications, and,
as applicable, polygraphs for eligibility for
access to classified information or eligibility
to hold a sensitive position made by any
Federal agency.
‘‘(2) To review the national security back-
ground investigation and adjudication pro-
grams of Federal agencies to determine
whether such programs are being imple-
mented in accordance with this section.
‘‘(3) To develop and issue uniform and con-
sistent policies and procedures to ensure the
effective, efficient, timely, and secure com-
pletion of investigations, polygraphs, and ad-
judications relating to determinations of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position.
‘‘(4) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to conduct inves-
tigations of persons who are proposed for ac-
cess to classified information or for eligi-
bility to hold a sensitive position to ascer-
tain whether such persons satisfy the cri-
teria for obtaining and retaining access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, as applicable.
‘‘(5) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to determine eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position in
accordance with Executive Order 12968 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to access to classi-
fied information).
‘‘(6) To ensure reciprocal recognition of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position
among Federal agencies, including acting as
the final authority to arbitrate and resolve
disputes among such agencies involving the
reciprocity of investigations and adjudica-
tions of eligibility.
‘‘(7) To execute all other duties assigned to
the Security Executive Agent by law.
‘‘(c) AUTHORITIES.—The Security Executive
Agent shall—
‘‘(1) issue guidelines and instructions to
the heads of Federal agencies to ensure ap-
propriate uniformity, centralization, effi-
ciency, effectiveness, timeliness, and secu-
rity in processes relating to determinations
by such agencies of eligibility for access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, including such matters as
investigations, polygraphs, adjudications,
and reciprocity;
‘‘(2) have the authority to grant exceptions
to, or waivers of, national security investiga-
tive requirements, including issuing imple-
menting or clarifying guidance, as necessary;
‘‘(3) have the authority to assign, in whole
or in part, to the head of any Federal agency
(solely or jointly) any of the duties of the Se-
curity Executive Agent described in sub-
section (b) or the authorities described in
paragraphs (1) and (2), provided that the ex-
ercise of such assigned duties or authorities
is subject to the oversight of the Security
Executive Agent, including such terms and
conditions (including approval by the Secu-
rity Executive Agent) as the Security Execu-
tive Agent determines appropriate; and
‘‘(4) define and set standards for contin-
uous evaluation for continued access to clas-
sified information and for eligibility to hold
a sensitive position.’’.
(b) REPORT ON RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RE-
VISING AUTHORITIES.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Chairman of the
Council submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees the report required by
section 602(b)(2)(A), the Chairman shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees such recommendations as the Chair-
man may have for revising the authorities of
the Security Executive Agent.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
103H(j)(4)(A) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
3033(j)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘in sec-
tion 804’’ and inserting ‘‘in section 805’’.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
such Act (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by strik-
ing the items relating to sections 803 and 804
and inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 803. Security Executive Agent.
‘‘Sec. 804. Exceptions.
‘‘Sec. 805. Definitions.’’.
SEC. 606. REPORT ON UNIFIED, SIMPLIFIED, GOV-
ERNMENTWIDE STANDARDS FOR PO-
SITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Security Execu-
tive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent, in coordina-
tion with the other members of the Council,
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a report re-
garding the advisability and the risks, bene-
fits, and costs to the Government and to in-
dustry of consolidating to not more than 3
tiers for positions of trust and security
clearances.
SEC. 607. REPORT ON CLEARANCE IN PERSON
CONCEPT.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that to reflect the greater mobility
of the modern workforce, alternative meth-
odologies merit analysis to allow greater
flexibility for individuals moving in and out
of positions that require access to classified
information, while still preserving security.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that describes the
requirements, feasibility, and advisability of
implementing a clearance in person concept
described in subsection (c).
(c) CLEARANCE IN PERSON CONCEPT.—The
clearance in person concept—
(1) permits an individual who once held a
security clearance to maintain his or her eli-
gibility for access to classified information,
networks, and facilities for up to 3 years
after the individual’s eligibility for access to
classified information would otherwise lapse;
and
(2) recognizes, unless otherwise directed by
the Security Executive Agent, an individ-
ual’s security clearance and background in-
vestigation as current, regardless of employ-
ment status, contingent on enrollment in a
continuous vetting program.
(d) CONTENTS.—The report required under
subsection (b) shall address—
(1) requirements for an individual to volun-
tarily remain in a continuous evaluation
program validated by the Security Executive
Agent even if the individual is not in a posi-
tion requiring access to classified informa-
tion;
(2) appropriate safeguards for privacy;
(3) advantages to government and indus-
try;
(4) the costs and savings associated with
implementation;
(5) the risks of such implementation, in-
cluding security and counterintelligence
risks;
(6) an appropriate funding model; and
(7) fairness to small companies and inde-
pendent contractors.
SEC. 608. BUDGET REQUEST DOCUMENTATION
ON FUNDING FOR BACKGROUND IN-
VESTIGATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—As part of the fiscal year
2020 budget request submitted to Congress
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United
States Code, the President shall include ex-
hibits that identify the resources expended
by each agency during the prior fiscal year
for processing background investigations and
continuous evaluation programs,
disaggregated by tier and whether the indi-
vidual was a Government employee or con-
tractor.
(b) CONTENTS.—Each exhibit submitted
under subsection (a) shall include details
on—
(1) the costs of background investigations
or reinvestigations;
(2) the costs associated with background
investigations for Government or contract
personnel;
(3) costs associated with continuous eval-
uation initiatives monitoring for each person
for whom a background investigation or re-
investigation was conducted, other than
costs associated with adjudication;
(4) the average per person cost for each
type of background investigation; and
(5) a summary of transfers and
reprogrammings that were executed in the
previous year to support the processing of se-
curity clearances.
SEC. 609. REPORTS ON RECIPROCITY FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES INSIDE OF DE-
PARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.
(a) RECIPROCALLY RECOGNIZED DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘reciprocally recog-
nized’’ means reciprocal recognition by Fed-
eral departments and agencies of eligibility
for access to classified information.
(b) REPORTS TO SECURITY EXECUTIVE
AGENT.—The head of each Federal depart-
ment or agency shall submit an annual re-
port to the Security Executive Agent that—
(1) identifies the number of individuals
whose security clearances take more than 2
weeks to be reciprocally recognized after
such individuals move to another part of
such department or agency; and
(2) breaks out the information described in
paragraph (1) by type of clearance and the
reasons for any delays.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not less frequently
than once each year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
industry partners an annual report that sum-
marizes the information received pursuant
to subsection (b) during the period covered
by such report.
SEC. 610. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS
ON SECURITY CLEARANCES.
Section 506H of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3104) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by adding
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a period; and
(C) by striking subparagraph (C);
(2) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c);
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS.—
(1)(A) Not later than March 1 of each year,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit a report to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate, the Committee on Home-
land Security of the House of Representa-
tives, and the Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform of the House of Rep-
resentatives regarding the security clear-
ances processed by each element of the intel-
ligence community during the preceding fis-
cal year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S511
January 23, 2019
‘‘(B) The Director shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives such portions of
the report submitted under subparagraph (A)
as the Director determines address elements
of the intelligence community that are with-
in the Department of Defense.
‘‘(C) Each report submitted under this
paragraph shall separately identify security
clearances processed for Federal employees
and contractor employees sponsored by each
such element.
‘‘(2) Each report submitted under para-
graph (1)(A) shall include, for each element
of the intelligence community for the fiscal
year covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(A) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations spon-
sored for new applicants.
‘‘(B) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic reinvestigations sponsored for
existing employees.
‘‘(C) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations for new
applicants that were adjudicated with notice
of a determination provided to the prospec-
tive applicant, including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably and granted
access to classified information; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(D) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic background investigations
that were adjudicated with notice of a deter-
mination provided to the existing employee,
including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(E) The total number of pending security
clearance background investigations, includ-
ing initial applicant investigations and peri-
odic reinvestigations, that were not adju-
dicated as of the last day of such year and
that remained pending, categorized as fol-
lows:
‘‘(i) For 180 days or shorter.
‘‘(ii) For longer than 180 days, but shorter
than 12 months.
‘‘(iii) For 12 months or longer, but shorter
than 18 months.
‘‘(iv) For 18 months or longer, but shorter
than 24 months.
‘‘(v) For 24 months or longer.
‘‘(F) For any security clearance determina-
tions completed or pending during the year
preceding the year for which the report is
submitted that have taken longer than 12
months to complete—
‘‘(i) an explanation of the causes for the
delays incurred during the period covered by
the report; and
‘‘(ii) the number of such delays involving a
polygraph requirement.
‘‘(G) The percentage of security clearance
investigations, including initial and periodic
reinvestigations, that resulted in a denial or
revocation of a security clearance.
‘‘(H) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that resulted in incomplete
information.
‘‘(I) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that did not result in enough
information to make a decision on poten-
tially adverse information.
‘‘(3) The report required under this sub-
section shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.’’;
and
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by
striking ‘‘subsection (a)(1)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsections (a)(1) and (b)’’.
SEC. 611. PERIODIC REPORT ON POSITIONS IN
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
THAT CAN BE CONDUCTED WITHOUT
ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION, NETWORKS, OR FACILITIES.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act and not less fre-
quently than once every 5 years thereafter,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report that reviews the intel-
ligence community for which positions can
be conducted without access to classified in-
formation, networks, or facilities, or may
only require a security clearance at the se-
cret level.
SEC. 612. INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM FOR
POSITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall establish and implement a program to
share between and among agencies of the
Federal Government and industry partners
of the Federal Government relevant back-
ground information regarding individuals ap-
plying for and currently occupying national
security positions and positions of trust, in
order to ensure the Federal Government
maintains a trusted workforce.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The program established
under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
‘‘Trusted Information Provider Program’’ (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Program’’).
(b) PRIVACY SAFEGUARDS.—The Security
Executive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent shall ensure
that the Program includes such safeguards
for privacy as the Security Executive Agent
and the Suitability and Credentialing Execu-
tive Agent consider appropriate.
(c) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO THE FED-
ERAL GOVERNMENT.—The Program shall in-
clude requirements that enable investigative
service providers and agencies of the Federal
Government to leverage certain pre-employ-
ment information gathered during the em-
ployment or military recruiting process, and
other relevant security or human resources
information obtained during employment
with or for the Federal Government, that
satisfy Federal investigative standards,
while safeguarding personnel privacy.
(d) INFORMATION AND RECORDS.—The infor-
mation and records considered under the
Program shall include the following:
(1) Date and place of birth.
(2) Citizenship or immigration and natu-
ralization information.
(3) Education records.
(4) Employment records.
(5) Employment or social references.
(6) Military service records.
(7) State and local law enforcement
checks.
(8) Criminal history checks.
(9) Financial records or information.
(10) Foreign travel, relatives, or associa-
tions.
(11) Social media checks.
(12) Such other information or records as
may be relevant to obtaining or maintaining
national security, suitability, fitness, or
credentialing eligibility.
(e) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of the Program.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the Pro-
gram.
(f) PLAN FOR PILOT PROGRAM ON TWO-WAY
INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of a pilot program to assess
the feasibility and advisability of expanding
the Program to include the sharing of infor-
mation held by the Federal Government re-
lated to contract personnel with the security
office of the employers of those contractor
personnel.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the pilot
program.
(g) REVIEW.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a review of the
plans submitted under subsections (e)(1) and
(f)(1) and utility and effectiveness of the pro-
grams described in such plans.
SEC. 613. REPORT ON PROTECTIONS FOR CON-
FIDENTIALITY OF WHISTLEBLOWER-
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall, in coordination with the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity, submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report detailing the
controls employed by the intelligence com-
munity to ensure that continuous vetting
programs, including those involving user ac-
tivity monitoring, protect the confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related communica-
tions.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
SEC. 701. LIMITATION RELATING TO ESTABLISH-
MENT OR SUPPORT OF CYBERSECU-
RITY UNIT WITH THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(b) LIMITATION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S512 January 23, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—No amount may be ex-
pended by the Federal Government, other
than the Department of Defense, to enter
into or implement any bilateral agreement
between the United States and the Russian
Federation regarding cybersecurity, includ-
ing the establishment or support of any cy-
bersecurity unit, unless, at least 30 days
prior to the conclusion of any such agree-
ment, the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on such agreement that
includes the elements required by subsection
(c).
(2) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AGREEMENTS.—
Any agreement between the Department of
Defense and the Russian Federation regard-
ing cybersecurity shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 1232 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 114–328), as amended by sec-
tion 1231 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91).
(c) ELEMENTS.—If the Director submits a
report under subsection (b) with respect to
an agreement, such report shall include a de-
scription of each of the following:
(1) The purpose of the agreement.
(2) The nature of any intelligence to be
shared pursuant to the agreement.
(3) The expected value to national security
resulting from the implementation of the
agreement.
(4) Such counterintelligence concerns asso-
ciated with the agreement as the Director
may have and such measures as the Director
expects to be taken to mitigate such con-
cerns.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This section
shall not be construed to affect any existing
authority of the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, or another head of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community, to
share or receive foreign intelligence on a
case-by-case basis.
SEC. 702. REPORT ON RETURNING RUSSIAN COM-
POUNDS.
(a) COVERED COMPOUNDS DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘covered compounds’’
means the real property in New York, the
real property in Maryland, and the real prop-
erty in San Francisco, California, that were
under the control of the Government of Rus-
sia in 2016 and were removed from such con-
trol in response to various transgressions by
the Government of Russia, including the in-
terference by the Government of Russia in
the 2016 election in the United States.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees, and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
of Representatives (only with respect to the
unclassified report), a report on the intel-
ligence risks of returning the covered com-
pounds to Russian control.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by this section shall be submitted in classi-
fied and unclassified forms.
SEC. 703. ASSESSMENT OF THREAT FINANCE RE-
LATING TO RUSSIA.
(a) THREAT FINANCE DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘threat finance’’ means—
(1) the financing of cyber operations, glob-
al influence campaigns, intelligence service
activities, proliferation, terrorism, or
transnational crime and drug organizations;
(2) the methods and entities used to spend,
store, move, raise, conceal, or launder money
or value, on behalf of threat actors;
(3) sanctions evasion; and
(4) other forms of threat finance activity
domestically or internationally, as defined
by the President.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis,
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report containing an
assessment of Russian threat finance. The
assessment shall be based on intelligence
from all sources, including from the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence of the
Department of the Treasury.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) A summary of leading examples from
the 3-year period preceding the date of the
submittal of the report of threat finance ac-
tivities conducted by, for the benefit of, or at
the behest of—
(A) officials of the Government of Russia;
(B) persons subject to sanctions under any
provision of law imposing sanctions with re-
spect to Russia;
(C) Russian nationals subject to sanctions
under any other provision of law; or
(D) Russian oligarchs or organized crimi-
nals.
(2) An assessment with respect to any
trends or patterns in threat finance activi-
ties relating to Russia, including common
methods of conducting such activities and
global nodes of money laundering used by
Russian threat actors described in paragraph
(1) and associated entities.
(3) An assessment of any connections be-
tween Russian individuals involved in money
laundering and the Government of Russia.
(4) A summary of engagement and coordi-
nation with international partners on threat
finance relating to Russia, especially in Eu-
rope, including examples of such engagement
and coordination.
(5) An identification of any resource and
collection gaps.
(6) An identification of—
(A) entry points of money laundering by
Russian and associated entities into the
United States;
(B) any vulnerabilities within the United
States legal and financial system, including
specific sectors, which have been or could be
exploited in connection with Russian threat
finance activities; and
(C) the counterintelligence threat posed by
Russian money laundering and other forms
of threat finance, as well as the threat to the
United States financial system and United
States efforts to enforce sanctions and com-
bat organized crime.
(7) Any other matters the Director deter-
mines appropriate.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) may be submitted in
classified form.
SEC. 704. NOTIFICATION OF AN ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGN.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR NOTIFICATION.—The
Director of National Intelligence, in coopera-
tion with the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the head of any other
relevant agency, shall notify the congres-
sional leadership and the Chairman and Vice
Chairman or Ranking Member of each of the
appropriate congressional committees, and
of other relevant committees of jurisdiction,
each time the Director of National Intel-
ligence determines there is credible informa-
tion that a foreign power has, is, or will at-
tempt to employ a covert influence or active
measures campaign with regard to the mod-
ernization, employment, doctrine, or force
posture of the nuclear deterrent or missile
defense.
(c) CONTENT OF NOTIFICATION.—Each notifi-
cation required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude information concerning actions taken
by the United States to expose or halt an at-
tempt referred to in subsection (b).
SEC. 705. NOTIFICATION OF TRAVEL BY ACCRED-
ITED DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR
PERSONNEL OF THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION IN THE UNITED STATES.
In carrying out the advance notification
requirements set out in section 502 of the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (division N of Public Law 115–31; 131
Stat. 825; 22 U.S.C. 254a note), the Secretary
of State shall—
(1) ensure that the Russian Federation pro-
vides notification to the Secretary of State
at least 2 business days in advance of all
travel that is subject to such requirements
by accredited diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federation in the
United States, and take necessary action to
secure full compliance by Russian personnel
and address any noncompliance; and
(2) provide notice of travel described in
paragraph (1) to the Director of National In-
telligence and the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation within 1 hour of re-
ceiving notice of such travel.
SEC. 706. REPORT ON OUTREACH STRATEGY AD-
DRESSING THREATS FROM UNITED
STATES ADVERSARIES TO THE
UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGY SEC-
TOR.
(a) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(3) the Committee on Armed Services,
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform of the House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report detailing outreach by
the intelligence community and the Defense
Intelligence Enterprise to United States in-
dustrial, commercial, scientific, technical,
and academic communities on matters relat-
ing to the efforts of adversaries of the United
States to acquire critical United States
technology, intellectual property, and re-
search and development information.
(c) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A review of the current outreach efforts
of the intelligence community and the De-
fense Intelligence Enterprise described in
subsection (b), including the type of informa-
tion conveyed in the outreach.
(2) A determination of the appropriate ele-
ment of the intelligence community to lead
such outreach efforts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S513
January 23, 2019
(3) An assessment of potential methods for
improving the effectiveness of such out-
reach, including an assessment of the fol-
lowing:
(A) Those critical technologies, infrastruc-
ture, or related supply chains that are at
risk from the efforts of adversaries described
in subsection (b).
(B) The necessity and advisability of grant-
ing security clearances to company or com-
munity leadership, when necessary and ap-
propriate, to allow for tailored classified
briefings on specific targeted threats.
(C) The advisability of partnering with en-
tities of the Federal Government that are
not elements of the intelligence community
and relevant regulatory and industry groups
described in subsection (b), to convey key
messages across sectors targeted by United
States adversaries.
(D) Strategies to assist affected elements
of the communities described in subpara-
graph (C) in mitigating, deterring, and pro-
tecting against the broad range of threats
from the efforts of adversaries described in
subsection (b), with focus on producing infor-
mation that enables private entities to jus-
tify business decisions related to national se-
curity concerns.
(E) The advisability of the establishment
of a United States Government-wide task
force to coordinate outreach and activities
to combat the threats from efforts of adver-
saries described in subsection (b).
(F) Such other matters as the Director of
National Intelligence may consider nec-
essary.
(d) CONSULTATION ENCOURAGED.—In pre-
paring the report required by subsection (b),
the Director is encouraged to consult with
other government agencies, think tanks,
academia, representatives of the financial
industry, or such other entities as the Direc-
tor considers appropriate.
(e) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex as
necessary.
SEC. 707. REPORT ON IRANIAN SUPPORT OF
PROXY FORCES IN SYRIA AND LEB-
ANON.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
(2) ARMS OR RELATED MATERIAL.—The term
‘‘arms or related material’’ means—
(A) nuclear, biological, chemical, or radio-
logical weapons or materials or components
of such weapons;
(B) ballistic or cruise missile weapons or
materials or components of such weapons;
(C) destabilizing numbers and types of ad-
vanced conventional weapons;
(D) defense articles or defense services, as
those terms are defined in paragraphs (3) and
(4), respectively, of section 47 of the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794);
(E) defense information, as that term is de-
fined in section 644 of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403); or
(F) items designated by the President for
purposes of the United States Munitions List
under section 38(a)(1) of the Arms Export
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on Iranian support of
proxy forces in Syria and Lebanon and the
threat posed to Israel, other United States
regional allies, and other specified interests
of the United States as a result of such sup-
port.
(c) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The report
required under subsection (b) shall include
information relating to the following mat-
ters with respect to both the strategic and
tactical implications for the United States
and its allies:
(1) A description of arms or related mate-
riel transferred by Iran to Hizballah since
March 2011, including the number of such
arms or related materiel and whether such
transfer was by land, sea, or air, as well as fi-
nancial and additional technological capa-
bilities transferred by Iran to Hizballah.
(2) A description of Iranian and Iranian-
controlled personnel, including Hizballah,
Shiite militias, and Iran’s Revolutionary
Guard Corps forces, operating within Syria,
including the number and geographic dis-
tribution of such personnel operating within
30 kilometers of the Israeli borders with
Syria and Lebanon.
(3) An assessment of Hizballah’s oper-
ational lessons learned based on its recent
experiences in Syria.
(4) A description of any rocket-producing
facilities in Lebanon for nonstate actors, in-
cluding whether such facilities were assessed
to be built at the direction of Hizballah lead-
ership, Iranian leadership, or in consultation
between Iranian leadership and Hizballah
leadership.
(5) An analysis of the foreign and domestic
supply chains that significantly facilitate,
support, or otherwise aid Hizballah’s acquisi-
tion or development of missile production fa-
cilities, including the geographic distribu-
tion of such foreign and domestic supply
chains.
(6) An assessment of the provision of goods,
services, or technology transferred by Iran
or its affiliates to Hizballah to indigenously
manufacture or otherwise produce missiles.
(7) An identification of foreign persons
that are based on credible information, fa-
cilitating the transfer of significant finan-
cial support or arms or related materiel to
Hizballah.
(8) A description of the threat posed to
Israel and other United States allies in the
Middle East by the transfer of arms or re-
lated material or other support offered to
Hizballah and other proxies from Iran.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) shall be submitted in
unclassified form, but may include a classi-
fied annex.
SEC. 708. ANNUAL REPORT ON IRANIAN EXPENDI-
TURES SUPPORTING FOREIGN MILI-
TARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to Congress
a report describing Iranian expenditures in
the previous calendar year on military and
terrorist activities outside the country, in-
cluding each of the following:
(1) The amount spent in such calendar year
on activities by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, including activities providing
support for—
(A) Hizballah;
(B) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
(C) Hamas;
(D) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
(E) any other entity or country the Direc-
tor determines to be relevant.
(2) The amount spent in such calendar year
for ballistic missile research and testing or
other activities that the Director determines
are destabilizing to the Middle East region.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 709. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF COMMITTEE
TO COUNTER ACTIVE MEASURES
AND REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT
OF FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE
CENTER.
(a) SCOPE OF COMMITTEE TO COUNTER AC-
TIVE MEASURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 501 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 115–31; 50 U.S.C. 3001 note) is
amended—
(A) in subsections (a) through (h)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, the People’s Republic of
China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or
other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russian Federa-
tion’’ each place it appears; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, China, Iran, North
Korea, or other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russia’’
each place it appears; and
(B) in the section heading, by inserting ‘‘,
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, THE ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF IRAN, THE DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S
REPUBLIC OF KOREA, OR OTHER NATION STATE’’
after ‘‘RUSSIAN FEDERATION’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of such Act is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 501 and inserting the following new
item:
‘‘Sec. 501. Committee to counter active
measures by the Russian Fed-
eration, the People’s Republic
of China, the Islamic Republic
of Iran, the Democratic Peo-
ple’s Republic of Korea, and
other nation states to exert
covert influence over peoples
and governments.’’.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with such elements of the intel-
ligence community as the Director considers
relevant, shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the fea-
sibility and advisability of establishing a
center, to be known as the ‘‘Foreign Malign
Influence Response Center’’, that—
(A) is comprised of analysts from all appro-
priate elements of the intelligence commu-
nity, including elements with related diplo-
matic and law enforcement functions;
(B) has access to all intelligence and other
reporting acquired by the United States Gov-
ernment on foreign efforts to influence,
through overt and covert malign activities,
United States political processes and elec-
tions;
(C) provides comprehensive assessment,
and indications and warning, of such activi-
ties; and
(D) provides for enhanced dissemination of
such assessment to United States policy
makers.
(2) CONTENTS.—The Report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A discussion of the desirability of the
establishment of such center and any bar-
riers to such establishment.
(B) Such recommendations and other mat-
ters as the Director considers appropriate.
Subtitle B—Reports
SEC. 711. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO INSPEC-
TOR GENERAL STUDY.
Section 11001(d) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘AUDIT’’ and inserting ‘‘REVIEW’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S514 January 23, 2019
SEC. 712. REPORTS ON AUTHORITIES OF THE
CHIEF INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) HOMELAND SECURITY INTELLIGENCE EN-
TERPRISE.—The term ‘‘Homeland Security
Intelligence Enterprise’’ has the meaning
given such term in Department of Homeland
Security Instruction Number 264–01–001, or
successor authority.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis, shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the au-
thorities of the Under Secretary.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) An analysis of whether the Under Sec-
retary has the legal and policy authority
necessary to organize and lead the Homeland
Security Intelligence Enterprise, with re-
spect to intelligence, and, if not, a descrip-
tion of—
(A) the obstacles to exercising the authori-
ties of the Chief Intelligence Officer of the
Department and the Homeland Security In-
telligence Council, of which the Chief Intel-
ligence Officer is the chair; and
(B) the legal and policy changes necessary
to effectively coordinate, organize, and lead
intelligence activities of the Department of
Homeland Security.
(2) A description of the actions that the
Secretary has taken to address the inability
of the Under Secretary to require compo-
nents of the Department, other than the Of-
fice of Intelligence and Analysis of the De-
partment to—
(A) coordinate intelligence programs; and
(B) integrate and standardize intelligence
products produced by such other compo-
nents.
SEC. 713. REPORT ON CYBER EXCHANGE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a report on the potential establish-
ment of a fully voluntary exchange program
between elements of the intelligence commu-
nity and private technology companies under
which—
(1) an employee of an element of the intel-
ligence community with demonstrated ex-
pertise and work experience in cybersecurity
or related disciplines may elect to be tempo-
rarily detailed to a private technology com-
pany that has elected to receive the detailee;
and
(2) an employee of a private technology
company with demonstrated expertise and
work experience in cybersecurity or related
disciplines may elect to be temporarily de-
tailed to an element of the intelligence com-
munity that has elected to receive the
detailee.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the feasibility of es-
tablishing the exchange program described
in such subsection.
(2) Identification of any challenges in es-
tablishing the exchange program.
(3) An evaluation of the benefits to the in-
telligence community that would result
from the exchange program.
SEC. 714. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.
(a) REVIEW OF WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.—
The Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community, in consultation with the inspec-
tors general for the Central Intelligence
Agency, the National Security Agency, the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the
Defense Intelligence Agency, and the Na-
tional Reconnaissance Office, shall conduct a
review of the authorities, policies, investiga-
tory standards, and other practices and pro-
cedures relating to intelligence community
whistleblower matters, with respect to such
inspectors general.
(b) OBJECTIVE OF REVIEW.—The objective of
the review required under subsection (a) is to
identify any discrepancies, inconsistencies,
or other issues, which frustrate the timely
and effective reporting of intelligence com-
munity whistleblower matters to appro-
priate inspectors general and to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, and the fair
and expeditious investigation and resolution
of such matters.
(c) CONDUCT OF REVIEW.—The Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community shall
take such measures as the Inspector General
determines necessary in order to ensure that
the review required by subsection (a) is con-
ducted in an independent and objective fash-
ion.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a written report con-
taining the results of the review required
under subsection (a), along with rec-
ommendations to improve the timely and ef-
fective reporting of intelligence community
whistleblower matters to inspectors general
and to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees and the fair and expeditious inves-
tigation and resolution of such matters.
SEC. 715. REPORT ON ROLE OF DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE WITH RE-
SPECT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENTS.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community determined ap-
propriate by the Director, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the role of the Director in pre-
paring analytic materials in connection with
the evaluation by the Federal Government of
national security risks associated with po-
tential foreign investments into the United
States.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of the current process for
the provision of the analytic materials de-
scribed in subsection (a);
(2) an identification of the most significant
benefits and drawbacks of such process with
respect to the role of the Director, including
the sufficiency of resources and personnel to
prepare such materials; and
(3) recommendations to improve such proc-
ess.
SEC. 716. REPORT ON SURVEILLANCE BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS NETWORKS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, the Director of the Na-
tional Security Agency, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
report describing—
(1) any attempts known to the intelligence
community by foreign governments to ex-
ploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities in United
States telecommunications networks (in-
cluding Signaling System No. 7) to target for
surveillance United States persons, includ-
ing employees of the Federal Government;
and
(2) any actions, as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, taken by the intelligence
community to protect agencies and per-
sonnel of the United States Government
from surveillance conducted by foreign gov-
ernments.
SEC. 717. BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENT RISKS.
(a) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INTERAGENCY
WORKING GROUP.—
(1) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall establish
an intelligence community interagency
working group to prepare the biennial re-
ports required by subsection (b).
(2) CHAIRPERSON.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall serve as the chairperson of
such interagency working group.
(3) MEMBERSHIP.—Such interagency work-
ing group shall be composed of representa-
tives of each element of the intelligence
community that the Director of National In-
telligence determines appropriate.
(b) BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN INVEST-
MENT RISKS.—
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
2 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives a report on foreign invest-
ment risks prepared by the interagency
working group established under subsection
(a).
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include identification,
analysis, and explanation of the following:
(A) Any current or projected major threats
to the national security of the United States
with respect to foreign investment.
(B) Any strategy used by a foreign country
that such interagency working group has
identified to be a country of special concern
to use foreign investment to target the ac-
quisition of critical technologies, critical
materials, or critical infrastructure.
(C) Any economic espionage efforts di-
rected at the United States by a foreign
country, particularly such a country of spe-
cial concern.
SEC. 718. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORT-
ING REQUIREMENT ON TRAVEL OF
FOREIGN DIPLOMATS.
Section 502(d)(2) of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 115–31) is amended by striking ‘‘the
number’’ and inserting ‘‘a best estimate’’.
SEC. 719. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGA-
TIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DISCLO-
SURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title XI of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S515
January 23, 2019
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 1105. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVES-
TIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DIS-
CLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFOR-
MATION.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED OFFICIAL.—The term ‘covered
official’ means—
‘‘(A) the heads of each element of the intel-
ligence community; and
‘‘(B) the inspectors general with oversight
responsibility for an element of the intel-
ligence community.
‘‘(2) INVESTIGATION.—The term ‘investiga-
tion’ means any inquiry, whether formal or
informal, into the existence of an unauthor-
ized public disclosure of classified informa-
tion.
‘‘(3) UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF CLASSI-
FIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unauthorized
disclosure of classified information’ means
any unauthorized disclosure of classified in-
formation to any recipient.
‘‘(4) UNAUTHORIZED PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation’ means the unauthorized disclosure
of classified information to a journalist or
media organization.
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT-
ING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, each covered official
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on investiga-
tions of unauthorized public disclosures of
classified information.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, with re-
spect to the preceding 6-month period, the
following:
‘‘(A) The number of investigations opened
by the covered official regarding an unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation.
‘‘(B) The number of investigations com-
pleted by the covered official regarding an
unauthorized public disclosure of classified
information.
‘‘(C) Of the number of such completed in-
vestigations identified under subparagraph
(B), the number referred to the Attorney
General for criminal investigation.
‘‘(c) DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REPORTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, the Assistant Attorney
General for National Security of the Depart-
ment of Justice, in consultation with the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on the
Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee
on the Judiciary of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the status of each referral
made to the Department of Justice from any
element of the intelligence community re-
garding an unauthorized disclosure of classi-
fied information made during the most re-
cent 365-day period or any referral that has
not yet been closed, regardless of the date
the referral was made.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, for each
referral covered by the report, at a min-
imum, the following:
‘‘(A) The date the referral was received.
‘‘(B) A statement indicating whether the
alleged unauthorized disclosure described in
the referral was substantiated by the Depart-
ment of Justice.
‘‘(C) A statement indicating the highest
level of classification of the information
that was revealed in the unauthorized disclo-
sure.
‘‘(D) A statement indicating whether an
open criminal investigation related to the
referral is active.
‘‘(E) A statement indicating whether any
criminal charges have been filed related to
the referral.
‘‘(F) A statement indicating whether the
Department of Justice has been able to at-
tribute the unauthorized disclosure to a par-
ticular entity or individual.
‘‘(d) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this section shall be submitted
in unclassified form, but may have a classi-
fied annex.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the first section of the National
Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 1104 the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 1105. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified informa-
tion.’’.
SEC. 720. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF
DESIGNATION OF COVERED INTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER AS PERSONA NON
GRATA.
(a) COVERED INTELLIGENCE OFFICER DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘covered
intelligence officer’’ means—
(1) a United States intelligence officer
serving in a post in a foreign country; or
(2) a known or suspected foreign intel-
ligence officer serving in a United States
post.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS.—Not later
than 72 hours after a covered intelligence of-
ficer is designated as a persona non grata,
the Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees, the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations of the Senate, and the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives a notification of that designation. Each
such notification shall include—
(1) the date of the designation;
(2) the basis for the designation; and
(3) a justification for the expulsion.
SEC. 721. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY PARTICIPATION IN
VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROC-
ESS OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS DOCUMENT.—The term
‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document’’ means the executive branch doc-
ument entitled ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities
Policy and Process’’ dated November 15, 2017.
(2) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROCESS.—
The term ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Process’’
means the interagency review of
vulnerabilities, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document or any successor document.
(3) VULNERABILITY.—The term ‘‘vulner-
ability’’ means a weakness in an information
system or its components (for example, sys-
tem security procedures, hardware design,
and internal controls) that could be ex-
ploited or could affect confidentiality, integ-
rity, or availability of information.
(b) REPORTS ON PROCESS AND CRITERIA
UNDER VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a written report describing—
(A) with respect to each element of the in-
telligence community—
(i) the title of the official or officials re-
sponsible for determining whether, pursuant
to criteria contained in the Vulnerabilities
Equities Policy and Process document or any
successor document, a vulnerability must be
submitted for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(ii) the process used by such element to
make such determination; and
(B) the roles or responsibilities of that ele-
ment during a review of a vulnerability sub-
mitted to the Vulnerabilities Equities Proc-
ess.
(2) CHANGES TO PROCESS OR CRITERIA.—Not
later than 30 days after any significant
change is made to the process and criteria
used by any element of the intelligence com-
munity for determining whether to submit a
vulnerability for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process, such ele-
ment shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report describing such
change.
(3) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this subsection shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each calendar year, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a classi-
fied report containing, with respect to the
previous year—
(A) the number of vulnerabilities sub-
mitted for review under the Vulnerabilities
Equities Process;
(B) the number of vulnerabilities described
in subparagraph (A) disclosed to each vendor
responsible for correcting the vulnerability,
or to the public, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(C) the aggregate number, by category, of
the vulnerabilities excluded from review
under the Vulnerabilities Equities Process,
as described in paragraph 5.4 of the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document.
(2) UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an unclassified appendix that con-
tains—
(A) the aggregate number of
vulnerabilities disclosed to vendors or the
public pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equi-
ties Process; and
(B) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities
disclosed to vendors or the public pursuant
to the Vulnerabilities Equities Process
known to have been patched.
(3) NON-DUPLICATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may forgo submission of
an annual report required under this sub-
section for a calendar year, if the Director
notifies the intelligence committees in writ-
ing that, with respect to the same calendar
year, an annual report required by paragraph
4.3 of the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and
Process document already has been sub-
mitted to Congress, and such annual report
contains the information that would other-
wise be required to be included in an annual
report under this subsection.
SEC. 722. INSPECTORS GENERAL REPORTS ON
CLASSIFICATION.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than Oc-
tober 1, 2019, each Inspector General listed in
subsection (b) shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report that
includes, with respect to the department or
agency of the Inspector General, analyses of
the following:
(1) The accuracy of the application of clas-
sification and handling markers on a rep-
resentative sample of finished reports, in-
cluding such reports that are compart-
mented.
(2) Compliance with declassification proce-
dures.
(3) The effectiveness of processes for iden-
tifying topics of public or historical impor-
tance that merit prioritization for a declas-
sification review.
(b) INSPECTORS GENERAL LISTED.—The In-
spectors General listed in this subsection are
as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S516 January 23, 2019
(1) The Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community.
(2) The Inspector General of the Central In-
telligence Agency.
(3) The Inspector General of the National
Security Agency.
(4) The Inspector General of the Defense
Intelligence Agency.
(5) The Inspector General of the National
Reconnaissance Office.
(6) The Inspector General of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
SEC. 723. REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECU-
RITY AND NATIONAL SECURITY IM-
PLICATIONS AND BRIEFING ON
EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASE
AND PANDEMICS.
(a) REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECURITY
AND NATIONAL SECURITY IMPLICATIONS.—
(1) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
5 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report on
the implications of water insecurity on the
national security interest of the United
States, including consideration of social,
economic, agricultural, and environmental
factors.
(2) ASSESSMENT SCOPE AND FOCUS.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an assessment of water insecurity de-
scribed in such subsection with a global
scope, but focus on areas of the world—
(A) of strategic, economic, or humani-
tarian interest to the United States—
(i) that are, as of the date of the report, at
the greatest risk of instability, conflict,
human insecurity, or mass displacement; or
(ii) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to emerge and become
significant during the 5-year or the 20-year
period beginning on the date of the report;
and
(B) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to imperil the national
security interests of the United States or al-
lies of the United States.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In researching a report
required by paragraph (1), the Director shall
consult with—
(A) such stakeholders within the intel-
ligence community, the Department of De-
fense, and the Department of State as the
Director considers appropriate; and
(B) such additional Federal agencies and
persons in the private sector as the Director
considers appropriate.
(4) FORM.—Each report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(b) BRIEFING ON EMERGING INFECTIOUS DIS-
EASE AND PANDEMICS.—
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives; and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 120 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall pro-
vide to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a briefing on the anticipated geo-
political effects of emerging infectious dis-
ease (including deliberate, accidental, and
naturally occurring infectious disease
threats) and pandemics, and their implica-
tions on the national security of the United
States.
(3) CONTENT.—The briefing under para-
graph (2) shall include an assessment of—
(A) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of emerging
infectious diseases on the United States and
the international political and economic sys-
tem;
(B) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of a major
transnational pandemic on the United States
and the international political and economic
system; and
(C) contributing trends and factors to the
matters assessed under subparagraphs (A)
and (B).
(4) EXAMINATION OF RESPONSE CAPACITY.—In
examining the risks, costs, and impacts of
emerging infectious disease and a possible
transnational pandemic under paragraph (3),
the Director of National Intelligence shall
also examine in the briefing under paragraph
(2) the response capacity within affected
countries and the international system. In
considering response capacity, the Director
shall include—
(A) the ability of affected nations to effec-
tively detect and manage emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic;
(B) the role and capacity of international
organizations and nongovernmental organi-
zations to respond to emerging infectious
disease and a possible pandemic, and their
ability to coordinate with affected and donor
nations; and
(C) the effectiveness of current inter-
national frameworks, agreements, and
health systems to respond to emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic.
(5) FORM.—The briefing under paragraph (2)
may be classified.
SEC. 724. ANNUAL REPORT ON MEMORANDA OF
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN ELE-
MENTS OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY AND OTHER ENTITIES OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT RE-
GARDING SIGNIFICANT OPER-
ATIONAL ACTIVITIES OR POLICY.
Section 311 of the Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (50 U.S.C. 3313)
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Each year, concurrent
with the annual budget request submitted by
the President to Congress under section 1105
of title 31, United States Code, each head of
an element of the intelligence community
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report that lists each
memorandum of understanding or other
agreement regarding significant operational
activities or policy entered into during the
most recently completed fiscal year between
or among such element and any other entity
of the United States Government.
‘‘(b) PROVISION OF DOCUMENTS.—Each head
of an element of an intelligence community
who receives a request from the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate or the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives for a copy of
a memorandum of understanding or other
document listed in a report submitted by the
head under subsection (a) shall submit to
such committee the requested copy as soon
as practicable after receiving such request.’’.
SEC. 725. STUDY ON THE FEASIBILITY OF
ENCRYPTING UNCLASSIFIED
WIRELINE AND WIRELESS TELE-
PHONE CALLS.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall complete a study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline and wireless
telephone calls between personnel in the in-
telligence community.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date on which the Director completes the
study required by subsection (a), the Direc-
tor shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the Direc-
tor’s findings with respect to such study.
SEC. 726. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR
ANNUAL REPORT ON HIRING AND
RETENTION OF MINORITY EMPLOY-
EES.
(a) EXPANSION OF PERIOD OF REPORT.—Sub-
section (a) of section 114 of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3050) is amended
by inserting ‘‘and the preceding 5 fiscal
years’’ after ‘‘fiscal year’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION ON DISAGGREGATION OF
DATA.—Subsection (b) of such section is
amended, in the matter before paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘disaggregated data by category
of covered person from each element of the
intelligence community’’ and inserting
‘‘data, disaggregated by category of covered
person and by element of the intelligence
community,’’.
SEC. 727. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY LOAN REPAYMENT AND RE-
LATED PROGRAMS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) there should be established, through the
issuing of an Intelligence Community Direc-
tive or otherwise, an intelligence commu-
nity-wide program for student loan repay-
ment, student loan forgiveness, financial
counseling, and related matters, for employ-
ees of the intelligence community;
(2) creating such a program would enhance
the ability of the elements of the intel-
ligence community to recruit, hire, and re-
tain highly qualified personnel, including
with respect to mission-critical and hard-to-
fill positions;
(3) such a program, including with respect
to eligibility requirements, should be de-
signed so as to maximize the ability of the
elements of the intelligence community to
recruit, hire, and retain highly qualified per-
sonnel, including with respect to mission-
critical and hard-to-fill positions; and
(4) to the extent possible, such a program
should be uniform throughout the intel-
ligence community and publicly promoted
by each element of the intelligence commu-
nity to both current employees of the ele-
ment as well as to prospective employees of
the element.
(b) REPORT ON POTENTIAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY-WIDE PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
operation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community and the heads of
any other appropriate department or agency
of the Federal Government, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on potentially establishing and car-
rying out an intelligence community-wide
program for student loan repayment, student
loan forgiveness, financial counseling, and
related matters, as described in subsection
(a).
(2) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
(A) A description of the financial resources
that the elements of the intelligence com-
munity would require to establish and ini-
tially carry out the program specified in
paragraph (1).
(B) A description of the practical steps to
establish and carry out such a program.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S517
January 23, 2019
(C) The identification of any legislative ac-
tion the Director determines necessary to es-
tablish and carry out such a program.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ESTABLISHED PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) COVERED PROGRAMS DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘covered programs’’
means any loan repayment program, loan
forgiveness program, financial counseling
program, or similar program, established
pursuant to title X of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) or any
other provision of law that may be adminis-
tered or used by an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(2) ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not less
frequently than once each year, the Director
of National Intelligence shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on the covered programs. Each such re-
port shall include, with respect to the period
covered by the report, the following:
(A) The number of personnel from each ele-
ment of the intelligence community who
used each covered program.
(B) The total amount of funds each ele-
ment expended for each such program.
(C) A description of the efforts made by
each element to promote each covered pro-
gram pursuant to both the personnel of the
element of the intelligence community and
to prospective personnel.
SEC. 728. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.
(a) CORRECTING LONG-STANDING MATERIAL
WEAKNESSES.—Section 368 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub-
lic Law 110–259; 50 U.S.C. 3051 note) is hereby
repealed.
(b) INTERAGENCY THREAT ASSESSMENT AND
COORDINATION GROUP.—Section 210D of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k)
is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (c); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (d)
through (i) as subsections (c) through (h), re-
spectively; and
(3) in subsection (c), as so redesignated—
(A) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a period; and
(B) by striking paragraph (9).
(c) INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.—Section
8H of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (g); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i)
as subsections (g) and (h), respectively.
SEC. 729. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT ON
SENIOR EXECUTIVES OF THE OF-
FICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
(a) SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE POSITION
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Senior
Executive Service position’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 3132(a)(2) of title
5, United States Code, and includes any posi-
tion above the GS–15, step 10, level of the
General Schedule under section 5332 of such
title.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the number
of Senior Executive Service positions in the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
subsection (b) shall include the following:
(1) The number of required Senior Execu-
tive Service positions for the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence.
(2) Whether such requirements are reason-
ably based on the mission of the Office.
(3) A discussion of how the number of the
Senior Executive Service positions in the Of-
fice compare to the number of senior posi-
tions at comparable organizations.
(d) COOPERATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity any information requested by the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity that is necessary to carry out this sec-
tion by not later than 14 calendar days after
the date on which the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community makes such re-
quest.
SEC. 730. BRIEFING ON FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN-
VESTIGATION OFFERING PERMA-
NENT RESIDENCE TO SOURCES AND
COOPERATORS.
Not later than 30 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation shall pro-
vide to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a briefing on the ability of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation to offer, as an
inducement to assisting the Bureau, perma-
nent residence within the United States to
foreign individuals who are sources or co-
operators in counterintelligence or other na-
tional security-related investigations. The
briefing shall address the following:
(1) The extent to which the Bureau may
make such offers, whether independently or
in conjunction with other agencies and de-
partments of the United States Government,
including a discussion of the authorities pro-
vided by section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(S)), section 7 of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Act (50 U.S.C. 3508), and any
other provision of law under which the Bu-
reau may make such offers.
(2) An overview of the policies and oper-
ational practices of the Bureau with respect
to making such offers.
(3) The sufficiency of such policies and
practices with respect to inducing individ-
uals to cooperate with, serve as sources for
such investigations, or both.
(4) Whether the Director recommends any
legislative actions to improve such policies
and practices, particularly with respect to
the counterintelligence efforts of the Bu-
reau.
SEC. 731. INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF NORTH
KOREA REVENUE SOURCES.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Assistant
Secretary of State for Intelligence and Re-
search and the Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis, shall
produce an intelligence assessment of the
revenue sources of the North Korean regime.
Such assessment shall include revenue from
the following sources:
(1) Trade in coal, iron, and iron ore.
(2) The provision of fishing rights to North
Korean territorial waters.
(3) Trade in gold, titanium ore, vanadium
ore, copper, silver, nickel, zinc, or rare earth
minerals, and other stores of value.
(4) Trade in textiles.
(5) Sales of conventional defense articles
and services.
(6) Sales of controlled goods, ballistic mis-
siles, and other associated items.
(7) Other types of manufacturing for ex-
port, as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
(8) The exportation of workers from North
Korea in a manner intended to generate sig-
nificant revenue, directly or indirectly, for
use by the government of North Korea.
(9) The provision of nonhumanitarian
goods (such as food, medicine, and medical
devices) and services by other countries.
(10) The provision of services, including
banking and other support, including by en-
tities located in the Russian Federation,
China, and Iran.
(11) Online commercial activities of the
Government of North Korea, including on-
line gambling.
(12) Criminal activities, including cyber-
enabled crime and counterfeit goods.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
under subsection (a) shall include an identi-
fication of each of the following:
(1) The sources of North Korea’s funding.
(2) Financial and non-financial networks,
including supply chain management, trans-
portation, and facilitation, through which
North Korea accesses the United States and
international financial systems and repatri-
ates and exports capital, goods, and services;
and
(3) the global financial institutions, money
services business, and payment systems that
assist North Korea with financial trans-
actions.
(c) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Upon com-
pletion of the assessment required under sub-
section (a), the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a copy of such assess-
ment.
SEC. 732. REPORT ON POSSIBLE EXPLOITATION
OF VIRTUAL CURRENCIES BY TER-
RORIST ACTORS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Stop Terrorist Use of Virtual
Currencies Act’’.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, shall submit to Congress a report on the
possible exploitation of virtual currencies by
terrorist actors. Such report shall include
the following elements:
(1) An assessment of the means and meth-
ods by which international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism use
virtual currencies.
(2) An assessment of the use by terrorist
organizations and State sponsors of ter-
rorism of virtual currencies compared to the
use by such organizations and States of
other forms of financing to support oper-
ations, including an assessment of the collec-
tion posture of the intelligence community
on the use of virtual currencies by such orga-
nizations and States.
(3) A description of any existing legal im-
pediments that inhibit or prevent the intel-
ligence community from collecting informa-
tion on or helping prevent the use of virtual
currencies by international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism and
an identification of any gaps in existing law
that could be exploited for illicit funding by
such organizations and States.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (b) shall be submitted in un-
classified form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 733. INCLUSION OF DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
IN ANNUAL REPORT RELATING TO
SECTION 702 OF THE FOREIGN IN-
TELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT OF
1978.
Section 707(b)(1)(G)(ii) of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C.
1881f(b)(1)(G)(ii)) is amended by inserting be-
fore the semicolon the following: ‘‘, includ-
ing whether disciplinary actions were taken
as a result of such an incident of noncompli-
ance and the extent of such disciplinary ac-
tions’’.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
SEC. 741. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION
BOARD.
Section 710(b) of the Public Interest De-
classification Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–567;
50 U.S.C. 3161 note) is amended by striking
‘‘December 31, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2028’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S518 January 23, 2019
SEC. 742. SECURING ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources of
the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives.
(2) COVERED ENTITY.—The term ‘‘covered
entity’’ means an entity identified pursuant
to section 9(a) of Executive Order 13636 of
February 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 11742), relat-
ing to identification of critical infrastruc-
ture where a cybersecurity incident could
reasonably result in catastrophic regional or
national effects on public health or safety,
economic security, or national security.
(3) EXPLOIT.—The term ‘‘exploit’’ means a
software tool designed to take advantage of
a security vulnerability.
(4) INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEM.—The term
‘‘industrial control system’’ means an oper-
ational technology used to measure, control,
or manage industrial functions, and includes
supervisory control and data acquisition sys-
tems, distributed control systems, and pro-
grammable logic or embedded controllers.
(5) NATIONAL LABORATORY.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Laboratory’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
(6) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the pilot program established under sub-
section (b).
(7) SECRETARY.—Except as otherwise spe-
cifically provided, the term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Energy.
(8) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ means any at-
tribute of hardware, software, process, or
procedure that could enable or facilitate the
defeat of a security control.
(b) PILOT PROGRAM FOR SECURING ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish a 2-year control
systems implementation pilot program with-
in the National Laboratories for the pur-
poses of—
(1) partnering with covered entities in the
energy sector (including critical component
manufacturers in the supply chain) that vol-
untarily participate in the Program to iden-
tify new classes of security vulnerabilities of
the covered entities; and
(2) evaluating technology and standards, in
partnership with covered entities, to isolate
and defend industrial control systems of cov-
ered entities from security vulnerabilities
and exploits in the most critical systems of
the covered entities, including—
(A) analog and nondigital control systems;
(B) purpose-built control systems; and
(C) physical controls.
(c) WORKING GROUP TO EVALUATE PROGRAM
STANDARDS AND DEVELOP STRATEGY.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish a working group—
(A) to evaluate the technology and stand-
ards used in the Program under subsection
(b)(2); and
(B) to develop a national cyber-informed
engineering strategy to isolate and defend
covered entities from security
vulnerabilities and exploits in the most crit-
ical systems of the covered entities.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The working group es-
tablished under paragraph (1) shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 10 members, to be ap-
pointed by the Secretary, at least 1 member
of which shall represent each of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The Department of Energy.
(B) The energy industry, including electric
utilities and manufacturers recommended by
the Energy Sector coordinating councils.
(C)(i) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity; or
(ii) the Industrial Control Systems Cyber
Emergency Response Team.
(D) The North American Electric Reli-
ability Corporation.
(E) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(F)(i) The Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence; or
(ii) the intelligence community (as defined
in section 3 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)).
(G)(i) The Department of Defense; or
(ii) the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Homeland Security and America’s Security
Affairs.
(H) A State or regional energy agency.
(I) A national research body or academic
institution.
(J) The National Laboratories.
(d) REPORTS ON THE PROGRAM.—
(1) INTERIM REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date on which funds are first
disbursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an interim report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 2 years
after the date on which funds are first dis-
bursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a final report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(e) EXEMPTION FROM DISCLOSURE.—Infor-
mation shared by or with the Federal Gov-
ernment or a State, Tribal, or local govern-
ment under this section—
(1) shall be deemed to be voluntarily
shared information;
(2) shall be exempt from disclosure under
section 552 of title 5, United States Code, or
any provision of any State, Tribal, or local
freedom of information law, open govern-
ment law, open meetings law, open records
law, sunshine law, or similar law requiring
the disclosure of information or records; and
(3) shall be withheld from the public, with-
out discretion, under section 552(b)(3) of title
5, United States Code, and any provision of
any State, Tribal, or local law requiring the
disclosure of information or records.
(f) PROTECTION FROM LIABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A cause of action against
a covered entity for engaging in the vol-
untary activities authorized under sub-
section (b)—
(A) shall not lie or be maintained in any
court; and
(B) shall be promptly dismissed by the ap-
plicable court.
(2) VOLUNTARY ACTIVITIES.—Nothing in this
section subjects any covered entity to liabil-
ity for not engaging in the voluntary activi-
ties authorized under subsection (b).
(g) NO NEW REGULATORY AUTHORITY FOR
FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Nothing in this section
authorizes the Secretary or the head of any
other department or agency of the Federal
Government to issue new regulations.
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM.—There is authorized to
be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out sub-
section (b).
(2) WORKING GROUP AND REPORT.—There is
authorized to be appropriated $1,500,000 to
carry out subsections (c) and (d).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall re-
main available until expended.
SEC. 743. BUG BOUNTY PROGRAMS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(2) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘bug
bounty program’’ means a program under
which an approved computer security spe-
cialist or security researcher is temporarily
authorized to identify and report
vulnerabilities within the information sys-
tem of an agency or department of the
United States in exchange for compensation.
(3) INFORMATION SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘infor-
mation system’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 3502 of title 44, United States
Code.
(b) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM PLAN.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit to appropriate committees of
Congress a strategic plan for appropriate
agencies and departments of the United
States to implement bug bounty programs.
(2) CONTENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment of—
(i) the ‘‘Hack the Pentagon’’ pilot program
carried out by the Department of Defense in
2016 and subsequent bug bounty programs in
identifying and reporting vulnerabilities
within the information systems of the De-
partment of Defense; and
(ii) private sector bug bounty programs, in-
cluding such programs implemented by lead-
ing technology companies in the United
States; and
(B) recommendations on the feasibility of
initiating bug bounty programs at appro-
priate agencies and departments of the
United States.
SEC. 744. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RE-
LATING TO THE NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE UNIVERSITY.
(a) CIVILIAN FACULTY MEMBERS; EMPLOY-
MENT AND COMPENSATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1595(c) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(5) The National Intelligence Univer-
sity.’’.
(2) COMPENSATION PLAN.—The Secretary of
Defense shall provide each person employed
as a full-time professor, instructor, or lec-
turer at the National Intelligence University
on the date of the enactment of this Act an
opportunity to elect to be paid under the
compensation plan in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act
(with no reduction in pay) or under the au-
thority of section 1595 of title 10, United
States Code, as amended by paragraph (1).
(b) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—Section 2161 of such title is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S519
January 23, 2019
‘‘(d) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—The Secretary of Defense may au-
thorize the President of the National Intel-
ligence University to accept qualifying re-
search grants in the same manner and to the
same degree as the President of the National
Defense University under section 2165(e) of
this title.’’.
(c) PILOT PROGRAM ON ADMISSION OF PRI-
VATE SECTOR CIVILIANS TO RECEIVE INSTRUC-
TION.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall commence
carrying out a pilot program to assess the
feasability and advisability of permitting el-
igible private sector employees who work in
organizations relevant to national security
to receive instruction at the National Intel-
ligence University.
(B) DURATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the pilot program during the 3-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the commence-
ment of the pilot program.
(C) EXISTING PROGRAM.—The Secretary
shall carry out the pilot program in a man-
ner that is consistent with section 2167 of
title 10, United States Code.
(D) NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS.—No more
than the equivalent of 35 full-time student
positions may be filled at any one time by
private sector employees enrolled under the
pilot program.
(E) DIPLOMAS AND DEGREES.—Upon success-
ful completion of the course of instruction in
which enrolled, any such private sector em-
ployee may be awarded an appropriate di-
ploma or degree under section 2161 of title 10,
United States Code.
(2) ELIGIBLE PRIVATE SECTOR EMPLOYEES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, an eligible private sector employee
is an individual employed by a private firm
that is engaged in providing to the Depart-
ment of Defense, the intelligence commu-
nity, or other Government departments or
agencies significant and substantial intel-
ligence or defense-related systems, products,
or services or whose work product is relevant
to national security policy or strategy.
(B) LIMITATION.—Under this subsection, a
private sector employee admitted for in-
struction at the National Intelligence Uni-
versity remains eligible for such instruction
only so long as that person remains em-
ployed by the same firm, holds appropriate
security clearances, and complies with any
other applicable security protocols.
(3) ANNUAL CERTIFICATION BY SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.—Under the pilot program, private
sector employees may receive instruction at
the National Intelligence University during
any academic year only if, before the start of
that academic year, the Secretary of Defense
determines, and certifies to the Committee
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
Committee on Armed Services of the House
of Representatives, that providing instruc-
tion to private sector employees under this
section during that year will further the na-
tional security interests of the United
States.
(4) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—The
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—
(A) the curriculum in which private sector
employees may be enrolled under the pilot
program is not readily available through
other schools and concentrates on national
security-relevant issues; and
(B) the course offerings at the National In-
telligence University are determined by the
needs of the Department of Defense and the
intelligence community.
(5) TUITION.—The President of the National
Intelligence University shall charge students
enrolled under the pilot program a rate
that—
(A) is at least the rate charged for employ-
ees of the United States outside the Depart-
ment of Defense, less infrastructure costs;
and
(B) considers the value to the school and
course of the private sector student.
(6) STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.—While receiv-
ing instruction at the National Intelligence
University, students enrolled under the pilot
program, to the extent practicable, are sub-
ject to the same regulations governing aca-
demic performance, attendance, norms of be-
havior, and enrollment as apply to Govern-
ment civilian employees receiving instruc-
tion at the university.
(7) USE OF FUNDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts received by the
National Intelligence University for instruc-
tion of students enrolled under the pilot pro-
gram shall be retained by the university to
defray the costs of such instruction.
(B) RECORDS.—The source, and the disposi-
tion, of such funds shall be specifically iden-
tified in records of the university.
(8) REPORTS.—
(A) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Each academic year
in which the pilot program is carried out,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate, and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
number of eligible private sector employees
participating in the pilot program.
(B) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the conclusion of the pilot
program, the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees, the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate,
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
findings of the Secretary with respect to the
pilot program. Such report shall include—
(i) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the feasability and advisability of
permitting eligible private sector employees
who work in organizations relevant to na-
tional security to receive instruction at the
National Intelligence University; and
(ii) a recommendation as to whether the
pilot program should be extended.
SEC. 745. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMEND-
MENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ACT OF 1947.
(a) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents at the beginning of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by inserting after the item relating to
section 2 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 3. Definitions.’’;
(2) by striking the item relating to section
107;
(3) by striking the item relating to section
113B and inserting the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 113B. Special pay authority for
science, technology, engineer-
ing, or mathematics posi-
tions.’’;
(4) by striking the items relating to sec-
tions 202, 203, 204, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213,
and 214; and
(5) by inserting after the item relating to
section 311 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 312. Repealing and saving provisions.’’.
(b) OTHER TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Such
Act is further amended—
(1) in section 102A—
(A) in subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) of
subsection (g), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (3) of subsection (v), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left;
(2) in section 106—
(A) by inserting ‘‘SEC. 106’’ before ‘‘(a)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of
subsection (b), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left;
(3) by striking section 107;
(4) in section 108(c), by striking ‘‘in both a
classified and an unclassified form’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to Congress in classified form, but
may include an unclassified summary’’;
(5) in section 112(c)(1), by striking ‘‘section
103(c)(7)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 102A(i)’’;
(6) by amending section 201 to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘SEC. 201. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
‘‘Except to the extent inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or other provisions
of law, the provisions of title 5, United
States Code, shall be applicable to the De-
partment of Defense.’’;
(7) in section 205, by redesignating sub-
sections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b),
respectively;
(8) in section 206, by striking ‘‘(a)’’;
(9) in section 207, by striking ‘‘(c)’’;
(10) in section 308(a), by striking ‘‘this
Act’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 2, 101, 102, 103,
and 303 of this Act’’;
(11) by redesignating section 411 as section
312;
(12) in section 503—
(A) in paragraph (5) of subsection (c)—
(i) by moving the margins of such para-
graph 2 ems to the left; and
(ii) by moving the margins of subparagraph
(B) of such paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left; and
(13) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) of section 504, by moving the
margins of such subparagraph 2 ems to the
right.
SEC. 746. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATED TO
THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
(a) NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINIS-
TRATION ACT.—
(1) CLARIFICATION OF FUNCTIONS OF THE AD-
MINISTRATOR FOR NUCLEAR SECURITY.—Sub-
section (b) of section 3212 of the National Nu-
clear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C.
2402(b)) is amended—
(A) by striking paragraphs (11) and (12);
and
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (13)
through (19) as paragraphs (11) through (17),
respectively.
(2) COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS.—Sec-
tion 3233(b) of the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2423(b)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Administration’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Department’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘Intelligence and’’ after
‘‘the Office of’’.
(b) ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.—Section
4524(b)(2) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(50 U.S.C. 2674(b)(2)) is amended by inserting
‘‘Intelligence and’’ after ‘‘The Director of’’.
(c) NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947.—Para-
graph (2) of section 106(b) of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041(b)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ‘‘and
Counterintelligence’’ after ‘‘Office of Intel-
ligence’’;
(2) by striking subparagraph (F);
(3) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H),
and (I) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), re-
spectively; and
(4) in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated,
by realigning the margin of such subpara-
graph 2 ems to the left.
SEC. 747. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NOTIFICATION
OF CERTAIN DISCLOSURES OF CLAS-
SIFIED INFORMATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADVERSARY FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.—The
term ‘‘adversary foreign government’’ means
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S520 January 23, 2019
the government of any of the following for-
eign countries:
(A) North Korea.
(B) Iran.
(C) China.
(D) Russia.
(E) Cuba.
(2) COVERED CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The
term ‘‘covered classified information’’ means
classified information that was—
(A) collected by an element of the intel-
ligence community; or
(B) provided by the intelligence service or
military of a foreign country to an element
of the intelligence community.
(3) ESTABLISHED INTELLIGENCE CHANNELS.—
The term ‘‘established intelligence chan-
nels’’ means methods to exchange intel-
ligence to coordinate foreign intelligence re-
lationships, as established pursuant to law
by the Director of National Intelligence, the
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Director of the National Security Agen-
cy, or other head of an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(4) INDIVIDUAL IN THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.—
The term ‘‘individual in the executive
branch’’ means any officer or employee of
the executive branch, including individuals—
(A) occupying a position specified in arti-
cle II of the Constitution;
(B) appointed to a position by an indi-
vidual described in subparagraph (A); or
(C) serving in the civil service or the Sen-
ior Executive Service (or similar service for
senior executives of particular departments
or agencies).
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that section
502 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3092) requires elements of the intel-
ligence community to keep the congres-
sional intelligence committees ‘‘fully and
currently informed’’ about all ‘‘intelligence
activities’’ of the United States, and to ‘‘fur-
nish to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees any information or material con-
cerning intelligence activities * * * which is
requested by either of the congressional in-
telligence committees in order to carry out
its authorized responsibilities.’’.
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) section 502 of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3092), together with other
intelligence community authorities, obli-
gates an element of the intelligence commu-
nity to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees written notification, by
not later than 7 days after becoming aware,
that an individual in the executive branch
has disclosed covered classified information
to an official of an adversary foreign govern-
ment using methods other than established
intelligence channels; and
(2) each such notification should include—
(A) the date and place of the disclosure of
classified information covered by the notifi-
cation;
(B) a description of such classified infor-
mation;
(C) identification of the individual who
made such disclosure and the individual to
whom such disclosure was made; and
(D) a summary of the circumstances of
such disclosure.
SEC. 748. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONSIDER-
ATION OF ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES
WHEN CONSIDERING WHETHER OR
NOT TO PROVIDE VISAS TO FOREIGN
INDIVIDUALS TO BE ACCREDITED
TO A UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN
THE UNITED STATES.
It is the sense of the Congress that the
Secretary of State, in considering whether or
not to provide a visa to a foreign individual
to be accredited to a United Nations mission
in the United States, should consider—
(1) known and suspected intelligence ac-
tivities, espionage activities, including ac-
tivities constituting precursors to espionage,
carried out by the individual against the
United States, foreign allies of the United
States, or foreign partners of the United
States; and
(2) the status of an individual as a known
or suspected intelligence officer for a foreign
adversary.
SEC. 749. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON WIKILEAKS.
It is the sense of Congress that WikiLeaks
and the senior leadership of WikiLeaks re-
semble a nonstate hostile intelligence serv-
ice often abetted by state actors and should
be treated as such a service by the United
States.
SA 8. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
The provisions in this Act shall go into ef-
fect 1 day after enactment.
SA 9. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 1, line 1, strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert
‘‘2 days’’.
SA 10. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
The provisions in this Act shall go into ef-
fect 3 days after enactment.
SA 11. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 1, line 1, strike ‘‘3’’ and insert ‘‘4’’.
SA 12. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
The provisions in this Act shall go into ef-
fect 5 days after enactment.
SA 13. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 1, line 1, strike ‘‘5’’ and insert ‘‘6’’.
SA 14. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SEC. 101. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 8, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Operations and Support’ for nec-
essary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection for operations and support, in-
cluding the transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens; the provision of air and marine
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in the enforcement or administration of laws
enforced by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity; at the discretion of the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the provision of such
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in other law enforcement and emergency hu-
manitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of
up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) po-
lice-type vehicles; the purchase, mainte-
nance, or operation of marine vessels, air-
craft, and unmanned aerial systems; and
contracting with individuals for personal
services abroad; $12,289,046,000; of which
$3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative
expenses related to the collection of the Har-
bor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section
9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and notwith-
standing section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of
which $1,555,887,000 shall be available until
September 30, 2020; and of which such sums
as become available in the Customs User Fee
Account, except sums subject to section
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budg-
et Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account:
Provided, That not to exceed $34,425 shall be
for official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That not to exceed
$150,000 shall be available for payment for
rental space in connection with preclearance
operations: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards of com-
pensation to informants, to be accounted for
solely under the certificate of the Secretary
of Homeland Security: Provided further, That
of the amount provided in this section,
$325,465,000 is designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 138. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Procurement, Construction, and
Improvements’ for necessary expenses of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for pro-
curement, construction, and improvements,
including procurements to buy marine ves-
sels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems,
$7,334,672,000, of which $193,326,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021, and
of which $7,141,346,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which
$5,700,000,000 shall be available for purposes
authorized by section 102 of the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–208) as
amended by section 564 of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–
161), to include activities authorized under
section 1103(b) of title 8, United States Code:
Provided, That the conditions set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 230 of divi-
sion F of the Consolidated Appropriations
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.011 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S521
January 23, 2019
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141) shall apply
during fiscal year 2019 to the amounts made
available in the clause preceding this pro-
viso: Provided further, That not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Comptroller General of the
United States an updated risk-based plan for
improving security along the borders of the
United States that includes the elements re-
quired under subsection (a) of section 231 of
division F of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141), which
shall be evaluated in accordance with sub-
section (b) of such section: Provided further,
That funds provided in this section may be
used for roads, lighting, cameras, and sen-
sors: Provided further, That of the amount
provided in this section, $4,332,374,000 is des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 139. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement—Operations and Sup-
port’ for necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for oper-
ations and support, including the purchase
and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement
only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted
units; and maintenance, minor construction,
and minor leasehold improvements at owned
and leased facilities; $8,447,855,000; of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended to enforce laws against forced child
labor; of which $13,700,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not
less than $15,000,000 shall be available for in-
vestigation of intellectual property rights
violations, including operation of the Na-
tional Intellectual Property Rights Coordi-
nation Center; of which not less than
$9,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects; of which not
less than $84,000,000 shall be available for ve-
hicle fleet recapitalization; and of which not
less than $4,989,158,000 shall be for enforce-
ment, detention, and removal operations, in-
cluding transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens: Provided, That not to exceed
$11,475 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available
until expended for conducting special oper-
ations under section 3131 of the Customs En-
forcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or
reimburse other Federal agencies for the
costs associated with the care, maintenance,
and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlaw-
fully present in the United States: Provided
further, That of the amount provided in this
section, $902,936,000 is designated by the Con-
gress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 140. Each amount designated in sec-
tions 137, 138, and 139 of this Act by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or
transferred, if applicable) only if the Presi-
dent subsequently so designates all such
amounts and transmits such designations to
the Congress.
‘‘SEC. 141. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. 1341.
‘‘SEC. 142. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 143. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.’’.
SEC. 102. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Further Ad-
ditional Continuing Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
SA 15. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
DIVISION A—FURTHER ADDITIONAL
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
SEC. 101. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 8, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Operations and Support’ for nec-
essary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection for operations and support, in-
cluding the transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens; the provision of air and marine
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in the enforcement or administration of laws
enforced by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity; at the discretion of the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the provision of such
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in other law enforcement and emergency hu-
manitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of
up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) po-
lice-type vehicles; the purchase, mainte-
nance, or operation of marine vessels, air-
craft, and unmanned aerial systems; and
contracting with individuals for personal
services abroad; $12,289,046,000; of which
$3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative
expenses related to the collection of the Har-
bor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section
9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and notwith-
standing section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of
which $1,555,887,000 shall be available until
September 30, 2020; and of which such sums
as become available in the Customs User Fee
Account, except sums subject to section
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budg-
et Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account:
Provided, That not to exceed $34,425 shall be
for official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That not to exceed
$150,000 shall be available for payment for
rental space in connection with preclearance
operations: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards of com-
pensation to informants, to be accounted for
solely under the certificate of the Secretary
of Homeland Security: Provided further, That
of the amount provided in this section,
$325,465,000 is designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 138. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Procurement, Construction, and
Improvements’ for necessary expenses of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for pro-
curement, construction, and improvements,
including procurements to buy marine ves-
sels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems,
$7,334,672,000, of which $193,326,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021, and
of which $7,141,346,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which
$5,700,000,000 shall be available for purposes
authorized by section 102 of the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–208) as
amended by section 564 of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–
161), to include activities authorized under
section 1103(b) of title 8, United States Code:
Provided, That the conditions set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 230 of divi-
sion F of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141) shall apply
during fiscal year 2019 to the amounts made
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.022 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S522 January 23, 2019
available in the clause preceding this pro-
viso: Provided further, That not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Comptroller General of the
United States an updated risk-based plan for
improving security along the borders of the
United States that includes the elements re-
quired under subsection (a) of section 231 of
division F of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141), which
shall be evaluated in accordance with sub-
section (b) of such section: Provided further,
That funds provided in this section may be
used for roads, lighting, cameras, and sen-
sors: Provided further, That of the amount
provided in this section, $4,332,374,000 is des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 139. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement—Operations and Sup-
port’ for necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for oper-
ations and support, including the purchase
and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement
only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted
units; and maintenance, minor construction,
and minor leasehold improvements at owned
and leased facilities; $8,447,855,000; of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended to enforce laws against forced child
labor; of which $13,700,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not
less than $15,000,000 shall be available for in-
vestigation of intellectual property rights
violations, including operation of the Na-
tional Intellectual Property Rights Coordi-
nation Center; of which not less than
$9,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects; of which not
less than $84,000,000 shall be available for ve-
hicle fleet recapitalization; and of which not
less than $4,989,158,000 shall be for enforce-
ment, detention, and removal operations, in-
cluding transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens: Provided, That not to exceed
$11,475 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available
until expended for conducting special oper-
ations under section 3131 of the Customs En-
forcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or
reimburse other Federal agencies for the
costs associated with the care, maintenance,
and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlaw-
fully present in the United States: Provided
further, That of the amount provided in this
section, $902,936,000 is designated by the Con-
gress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 140. Each amount designated in sec-
tions 137, 138, and 139 of this Act by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or
transferred, if applicable) only if the Presi-
dent subsequently so designates all such
amounts and transmits such designations to
the Congress.
‘‘SEC. 141. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. 1341.
‘‘SEC. 142. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 143. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.’’.
SEC. 102. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Further
Additional Continuing Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
DIVISION B—ADDITIONAL SUPPLE-
MENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DIS-
ASTER RELIEF, 2019
The following sums in this division are ap-
propriated, out of any money in the Treas-
ury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael or Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, typhoons, volcanic
activity, or wildfires occurring in calendar
year 2018 under such terms and conditions as
determined by the Secretary: Provided, That
the Secretary may provide assistance for
such losses in the form of block grants to eli-
gible states and territories and such assist-
ance may include compensation to pro-
ducers, as determined by the Secretary, for
past or future crop insurance premiums, for-
est restoration, and poultry and livestock
losses: Provided further, That of the amounts
provided under this heading, tree assistance
payments may be made under section 1501(e)
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nursery
tree growers (as defined in such section) of
pecan trees with a tree mortality rate that
exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality) and is less than 15 percent (adjusted
for normal mortality), to be available until
expended, for losses incurred during the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in
the case of producers impacted by volcanic
activity that resulted in the loss of crop
land, or access to crop land, the Secretary
shall consider all measures available, as ap-
propriate, to bring replacement land into
production: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading and applicable policies of crop insur-
ance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop
Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under
section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C.
7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance
for an insurable commodity for the applica-
ble crop year under the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the re-
quired paperwork and pay the service fee by
the applicable State filing deadline for a
noninsurable commodity for the applicable
crop year under NAP for the crop incurring
the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That producers receiving payments
under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop
insurance where crop insurance is available
for the next two available crop years, exclud-
ing tree insurance policies, and producers re-
ceiving payments under this heading shall be
required to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S523
January 23, 2019
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to provide a grant to the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
for disaster nutrition assistance in response
to the Presidentially declared major disas-
ters and emergencies: Provided, That funds
made available to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands under this section
shall remain available for obligation by the
Commonwealth until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
incurred from Tropical Storm Cindy and
losses of peach and blueberry crops in cal-
endar year 2017 due to extreme cold: Pro-
vided, That the amounts provided by this
section are designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018 under
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.), $600,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That within the amount appro-
priated, up to 2 percent of funds may be
transferred to the ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’
account for administration and oversight ac-
tivities: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for carrying out investigations
and audits related to the funding provided
under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this divi-
sion.
FISHERIES DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fisheries
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S524 January 23, 2019
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, and calendar year 2018
wildfires, volcanic eruptions, and earth-
quakes, $15,000,000: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this division to the
Legal Services Corporation shall be expended
for any purpose prohibited or limited by, or
contrary to any of the provisions of, sections
501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law
105–119, and all funds appropriated in this di-
vision to the Legal Services Corporation
shall be subject to the same terms and condi-
tions set forth in such sections, except that
all references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997
and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead to
2018 and 2019, respectively, and except that
sections 501 and 503 of Public Law 104–134
(referenced by Public Law 105–119) shall not
apply to the amount made available under
this heading: Provided further, That, for the
purposes of this division, the Legal Services
Corporation shall be considered an agency of
the United States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$200,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this division, to reduce
risk from future floods and hurricanes, at
full Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for high priority
studies of projects in States and insular
areas that were impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical Storm
Gita: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House and the Sen-
ate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, including new studies selected
to be initiated using funds provided under
this heading, beginning not later than 60
days after the date of enactment of this divi-
sion.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this division,
and flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which
have signed Chief’s Reports as of the date of
enactment of this division or which are stud-
ied using funds provided under the heading
‘‘Investigations’’ if the Secretary determines
such projects to be technically feasible, eco-
nomically justified, and environmentally ac-
ceptable, in States and insular areas that
were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita: Provided,
That projects receiving funds provided under
the first proviso in ‘‘Title IV—Corps of Engi-
neers—Civil—Department of the Army—Con-
struction’’ in Public Law 115–123 shall not be
eligible for funding provided under this head-
ing: Provided further, That for projects re-
ceiving funds provided under this heading,
the provisions of Section 902 of the Water
Resources Act of 1986 shall not apply to these
funds: Provided further, That the completion
of ongoing construction projects receiving
funds provided under this heading shall be at
full Federal expense with respect to such
funds: Provided further, That using funds pro-
vided under this heading, the non-Federal
cash contribution for projects other than on-
going construction projects shall be financed
in accordance with the provisions of section
103(k) of Public Law 99–662 over a period of 30
years from the date of completion of the
project or separable element: Provided fur-
ther, That up to $25,000,000 of the funds made
available under this heading shall be used for
continuing authorities projects to reduce the
risk of flooding and storm damage: Provided
further, That any projects using funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be initiated
only after non-Federal interests have en-
tered into binding agreements with the Sec-
retary requiring, where applicable, the non-
Federal interests to pay 100 percent of the
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement,
and rehabilitation costs of the project and to
hold and save the United States free from
damages due to the construction or oper-
ation and maintenance of the project, except
for damages due to the fault or negligence of
the United States or its contractors: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$225,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $245,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this division.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S525
January 23, 2019
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Compliance and Restoration’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, $2,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this division, the Survey
shall submit a report to the Committees on
Appropriations that describes the potential
options to replace the facility damaged by
the 2018 volcano disaster along with cost es-
timates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States in EPA Regions 4, 9,
and 10 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater treatment works and
drinking water facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and calendar year 2018 wildfires and earth-
quakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each
State shall use not less than 20 percent but
not more than 30 percent amount of its cap-
italization grants to provide additional sub-
sidization to eligible recipients in the form
of forgiveness of principal, negative interest
loans or grants or any combination of these:
Provided further, That the Administrator
shall retain $10,400,000 of the funds appro-
priated herein for grants for drinking water
facilities and waste water treatment plants
impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided further,
That the funds appropriated herein shall be
used for eligible projects whose purpose is to
reduce flood or fire damage risk and vulner-
ability or to enhance resiliency to rapid hy-
drologic change or natural disaster at treat-
ment works as defined by section 212 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act or any
eligible facilities under section 1452 of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other eligi-
ble tasks at such treatment works or facili-
ties necessary to further such purposes: Pro-
vided further, That the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency may re-
tain up to $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated
herein for management and oversight: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S526 January 23, 2019
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this division, the agen-
cies receiving funds appropriated by this
title shall provide a detailed operating plan
of anticipated uses of funds made available
in this title by State and Territory, and by
program, project, and activity, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and wildfires or earth-
quakes occurring in 2018 (referred to under
this heading as ‘‘covered disaster or emer-
gency’’), to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the Secretary
of Labor may transfer up to $1,000,000 of such
funds to any other Department of Labor ac-
count for reconstruction and recovery needs,
including worker protection activities: Pro-
vided further, That these sums may be used
to replace grant funds previously obligated
to the impacted areas: Provided further, That
of the amount provided, up to $500,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
transferred to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’
for oversight of activities responding to such
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $80,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2021, for Head Start programs, for necessary
expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut and Super Ty-
phoon Yutu, and wildfires or earthquakes oc-
curring in 2018 in those areas for which a
major disaster or emergency has been de-
clared under section 401 or 501 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191), in-
cluding making payments under the Head
Start Act: Provided, That none of the funds
appropriated in this paragraph shall be in-
cluded in the calculation of the ‘‘base grant’’
in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is
defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A), 641A(h)(1)(B),
or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start Act: Provided
further, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph are not subject to the allocation re-
quirements of section 640(a) of the Head
Start Act: Provided further, That funds ap-
propriated in this paragraph shall not be
available for costs that are reimbursed by
the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, under a contract for insurance, or by self-
insurance: Provided further, That up to
$2,000,000 shall be available for Federal ad-
ministrative expenses: Provided further, That
obligations incurred for the purposes pro-
vided herein prior to the date of enactment
of this division may be charged to funds ap-
propriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
EMERGENCY FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Health and Social Services Emergency
Fund’’, $166,000,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2020, for necessary ex-
penses directly related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut and Super Typhoon Yutu,
and wildfires or earthquakes occurring in
2018 in those areas for which a major disaster
or emergency has been declared under sec-
tions 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to under
this heading as ‘‘covered disaster or emer-
gency’’), including activities authorized
under section 319(a) of the Public Health
Service Act (referred to in this division as
the ‘‘PHS Act’’): Provided, That of the
amount provided, $45,000,000 shall be trans-
ferred to ‘‘Health Resources and Services Ad-
ministration—Primary Health Care’’ for ex-
penses directly related to a covered disaster
or emergency for disaster response and re-
covery, for the Health Centers Program
under section 330 of the PHS Act, including
alteration, renovation, construction, equip-
ment, and other capital improvement costs
as necessary to meet the needs of areas af-
fected by a covered disaster or emergency:
Provided further, That the time limitation in
section 330(e)(3) of the PHS Act shall not
apply to funds made available under the pre-
ceding proviso: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, not less than $20,000,000
shall be transferred to ‘‘Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention—CDC-Wide Activi-
ties and Program Support’’ for response, re-
covery, mitigation, and other expenses di-
rectly related to a covered disaster or emer-
gency: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $100,000,000 shall be
transferred to ‘‘Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration—Health
Surveillance and Program Support’’ for
grants, contracts, and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, treatment of substance use dis-
orders, and other related helplines, and for
other similar programs to provide support to
individuals impacted by a covered disaster or
emergency: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of the Secretary—Office of Inspec-
tor General’’ for oversight of activities re-
sponding to such hurricanes, typhoons, and
wildfires: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
HURRICANE EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Hurricane
Education Recovery’’ for necessary expenses
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S527
January 23, 2019
directly related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
wildfires, earthquakes, or volcanic eruptions
in 2018 in those areas for which a major dis-
aster or emergency has been declared under
section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to
under this heading as a ‘‘covered disaster or
emergency’’), $165,000,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2021: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That such as-
sistance may be provided through any of the
programs authorized under this heading in
division B of title VIII of Public Law 115–123
(as amended by Public Law 115–141), as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Education, and
subject to the terms and conditions that ap-
plied to those programs, except that ref-
erences to dates and school years in Public
Law 115–123 shall be deemed to be the cor-
responding dates and school years for the
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary of Education may
determine the amounts to be used for each
such program and shall notify the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate of these
amounts not later than 7 days prior to obli-
gation: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading, to
remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Education for
oversight of activities supported with funds
appropriated under this heading, and up to
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be for program adminis-
tration.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this division, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
SEC. 702. Unless otherwise provided for by
this title, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this title to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this division, the Government
Accountability Office shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a spend
plan specifying funding estimates for audits
and investigations of any such declared dis-
asters occurring in 2018 and identifying fund-
ing estimates or carryover balances, if any,
that may be available for audits and inves-
tigations of any other such declared disas-
ters: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations
and a form 1391 for each specific project: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this division, the Sec-
retary of the Navy, or his designee, shall
submit to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate a detailed expenditure plan for funds pro-
vided under this heading: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this division, the Secretary of the
Air Force, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this division, the Director
of the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S528 January 23, 2019
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,060,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.): Provided, That funds shall be
awarded directly to the State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974) at the discretion of the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That any funds made available
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254 that remain avail-
able, after the funds under such headings
have been allocated for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under such head-
ings, shall be allocated to grantees, for miti-
gation activities in the most impacted and
distressed areas resulting from a major dis-
aster that occurred in 2018: Provided further,
That such allocations shall be made in the
same proportion that the amount of funds
each grantee received under this division and
the same heading in division I of Public Law
115–254 bears to the amount of all funds pro-
vided to all grantees that received alloca-
tions for disasters that occurred in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under the text preceding the first
proviso under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, the Sec-
retary shall allocate to all such grantees an
aggregate amount not less than 33 percent of
the sum of such amounts of funds within 120
days after the enactment of this division
based on the best available data, and shall
allocate no less than 100 percent of such
funds by no later than 180 days after the en-
actment of this division: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall not prohibit the use
of funds made available under this heading
and the same heading in Public Law 115–254
for non-Federal share as authorized by sec-
tion 105(a)(9) of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)):
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, grantees may
establish grant programs to assist small
businesses for working capital purposes to
aid in recovery: Provided further, That as a
condition of making any grant, the Sec-
retary shall certify in advance that such
grantee has in place proficient financial con-
trols and procurement processes and has es-
tablished adequate procedures to prevent
any duplication of benefits as defined by sec-
tion 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure of
funds, to maintain comprehensive websites
regarding all disaster recovery activities as-
sisted with these funds, and to detect and
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to any such
duplication of benefits, the Secretary shall
act in accordance with section 1210 of Public
Law 115–254 (132 Stat. 3442) and section 312 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):
Provided further, That the Secretary shall re-
quire grantees to maintain on a public
website information containing common re-
porting criteria established by the Depart-
ment that permits individuals and entities
awaiting assistance and the general public to
see how all grant funds are used, including
copies of all relevant procurement docu-
ments, grantee administrative contracts and
details of ongoing procurement processes, as
determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to the obligation of funds a
grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary
for approval detailing the proposed use of all
funds, including criteria for eligibility and
how the use of these funds will address long-
term recovery and restoration of infrastruc-
ture and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas: Provided further, That such
funds may not be used for activities reim-
bursed by, or for which funds have been made
available by, the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency or the Army Corps of Engi-
neers, in excess of the authorized amount of
the project or its components: Provided fur-
ther, That funds allocated under this heading
shall not be considered relevant to the non-
disaster formula allocations made pursuant
to section 106 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Pro-
vided further, That a State, unit of general
local government, or Indian tribe may use up
to 5 percent of its allocation for administra-
tive costs: Provided further, That the first
proviso under this heading in the Supple-
mental Appropriations for Disaster Relief
Requirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public
Law 115–254) is amended by striking ‘‘State
or unit of general local government’’ and in-
serting ‘‘State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe (as such term is defined
in section 102 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’:
Provided further, That the sixth proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or sub-
division thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit
of general local government, or Indian tribe
(as such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this divi-
sion or in division I of Public Law 115–254
that are allocated in response to Hurricane
Florence may be used interchangeably and
without limitation for the same activities in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
lated to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD pub-
lishes the Federal Register Notice imple-
menting this provision, grantees may submit
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S529
January 23, 2019
for HUD approval revised plans for the use of
funds related to Hurricane Matthew that ex-
pand the eligible beneficiaries of existing
programs contained in such previously ap-
proved plans to include those impacted by
Hurricane Florence. Approval of any such re-
vised plans shall include the execution of re-
vised grant terms and conditions as nec-
essary. Once the implementing Notice is
published, any additional action plan revi-
sions shall follow the requirements con-
tained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this division or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS DIVISION
SEC. 1101. Each amount appropriated or
made available by this division is in addition
to amounts otherwise appropriated for the
fiscal year involved.
SEC. 1102. No part of any appropriation
contained in this division shall remain avail-
able for obligation beyond the current fiscal
year unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 1103. Unless otherwise provided for by
this division, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this division to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 1104. Each amount designated in this
division by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
SEC. 1105. For purposes of this division, the
consequences or impacts of any hurricane
shall include damages caused by the storm
at any time during the entirety of its dura-
tion as a cyclone, as defined by the National
Hurricane Center.
SEC. 1106. Any amount appropriated by this
division, designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and
subsequently so designated by the President,
and transferred pursuant to transfer authori-
ties provided by this division shall retain
such designation.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Addi-
tional Supplemental Appropriations for Dis-
aster Relief, 2019’’.
SA 16. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after section 1101 and insert the
following:
TITLE XII—FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 1201. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 8, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Operations and Support’ for nec-
essary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection for operations and support, in-
cluding the transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens; the provision of air and marine
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in the enforcement or administration of laws
enforced by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity; at the discretion of the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the provision of such
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in other law enforcement and emergency hu-
manitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of
up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) po-
lice-type vehicles; the purchase, mainte-
nance, or operation of marine vessels, air-
craft, and unmanned aerial systems; and
contracting with individuals for personal
services abroad; $12,289,046,000; of which
$3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative
expenses related to the collection of the Har-
bor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section
9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and notwith-
standing section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of
which $1,555,887,000 shall be available until
September 30, 2020; and of which such sums
as become available in the Customs User Fee
Account, except sums subject to section
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budg-
et Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account:
Provided, That not to exceed $34,425 shall be
for official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That not to exceed
$150,000 shall be available for payment for
rental space in connection with preclearance
operations: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards of com-
pensation to informants, to be accounted for
solely under the certificate of the Secretary
of Homeland Security: Provided further, That
of the amount provided in this section,
$325,465,000 is designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 138. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Procurement, Construction, and
Improvements’ for necessary expenses of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for pro-
curement, construction, and improvements,
including procurements to buy marine ves-
sels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems,
$7,334,672,000, of which $193,326,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021, and
of which $7,141,346,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which
$5,700,000,000 shall be available for purposes
authorized by section 102 of the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–208) as
amended by section 564 of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–
161), to include activities authorized under
section 1103(b) of title 8, United States Code:
Provided, That the conditions set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 230 of divi-
sion F of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141) shall apply
during fiscal year 2019 to the amounts made
available in the clause preceding this pro-
viso: Provided further, That not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Comptroller General of the
United States an updated risk-based plan for
improving security along the borders of the
United States that includes the elements re-
quired under subsection (a) of section 231 of
division F of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141), which
shall be evaluated in accordance with sub-
section (b) of such section: Provided further,
That funds provided in this section may be
used for roads, lighting, cameras, and sen-
sors: Provided further, That of the amount
provided in this section, $4,332,374,000 is des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 139. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement—Operations and Sup-
port’ for necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for oper-
ations and support, including the purchase
and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement
only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted
units; and maintenance, minor construction,
and minor leasehold improvements at owned
and leased facilities; $8,447,855,000; of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended to enforce laws against forced child
labor; of which $13,700,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not
less than $15,000,000 shall be available for in-
vestigation of intellectual property rights
violations, including operation of the Na-
tional Intellectual Property Rights Coordi-
nation Center; of which not less than
$9,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects; of which not
less than $84,000,000 shall be available for ve-
hicle fleet recapitalization; and of which not
less than $4,989,158,000 shall be for enforce-
ment, detention, and removal operations, in-
cluding transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens: Provided, That not to exceed
$11,475 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available
until expended for conducting special oper-
ations under section 3131 of the Customs En-
forcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or
reimburse other Federal agencies for the
costs associated with the care, maintenance,
and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlaw-
fully present in the United States: Provided
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.023 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S530 January 23, 2019
further, That of the amount provided in this
section, $902,936,000 is designated by the Con-
gress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
‘‘SEC. 140. Each amount designated in sec-
tions 137, 138, and 139 of this Act by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or
transferred, if applicable) only if the Presi-
dent subsequently so designates all such
amounts and transmits such designations to
the Congress.
‘‘SEC. 141. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. 1341.
‘‘SEC. 142. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 143. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.’’.
SEC. 1202. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
SA 17. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SEC. 101. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 8, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Operations and Support’ for nec-
essary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection for operations and support, in-
cluding the transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens; the provision of air and marine
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in the enforcement or administration of laws
enforced by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity; at the discretion of the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the provision of such
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in other law enforcement and emergency hu-
manitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of
up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) po-
lice-type vehicles; the purchase, mainte-
nance, or operation of marine vessels, air-
craft, and unmanned aerial systems; and
contracting with individuals for personal
services abroad; $12,289,046,000; of which
$3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative
expenses related to the collection of the Har-
bor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section
9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and notwith-
standing section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of
which $1,555,887,000 shall be available until
September 30, 2020; and of which such sums
as become available in the Customs User Fee
Account, except sums subject to section
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budg-
et Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account:
Provided, That not to exceed $34,425 shall be
for official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That not to exceed
$150,000 shall be available for payment for
rental space in connection with preclearance
operations: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards of com-
pensation to informants, to be accounted for
solely under the certificate of the Secretary
of Homeland Security.
‘‘SEC. 138. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Procurement, Construction, and
Improvements’ for necessary expenses of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for pro-
curement, construction, and improvements,
including procurements to buy marine ves-
sels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems,
$7,334,672,000, of which $193,326,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021, and
of which $7,141,346,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which
$5,700,000,000 shall be available for purposes
authorized by section 102 of the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–208) as
amended by section 564 of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–
161), to include activities authorized under
section 1103(b) of title 8, United States Code:
Provided, That the conditions set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 230 of divi-
sion F of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141) shall apply
during fiscal year 2019 to the amounts made
available in the clause preceding this pro-
viso: Provided further, That not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Comptroller General of the
United States an updated risk-based plan for
improving security along the borders of the
United States that includes the elements re-
quired under subsection (a) of section 231 of
division F of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141), which
shall be evaluated in accordance with sub-
section (b) of such section: Provided further,
That funds provided in this section may be
used for roads, lighting, cameras, and sen-
sors.
‘‘SEC. 139. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement—Operations and Sup-
port’ for necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for oper-
ations and support, including the purchase
and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement
only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted
units; and maintenance, minor construction,
and minor leasehold improvements at owned
and leased facilities; $8,447,855,000; of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended to enforce laws against forced child
labor; of which $13,700,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not
less than $15,000,000 shall be available for in-
vestigation of intellectual property rights
violations, including operation of the Na-
tional Intellectual Property Rights Coordi-
nation Center; of which not less than
$9,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects; of which not
less than $84,000,000 shall be available for ve-
hicle fleet recapitalization; and of which not
less than $4,989,158,000 shall be for enforce-
ment, detention, and removal operations, in-
cluding transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens: Provided, That not to exceed
$11,475 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available
until expended for conducting special oper-
ations under section 3131 of the Customs En-
forcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or
reimburse other Federal agencies for the
costs associated with the care, maintenance,
and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlaw-
fully present in the United States.
‘‘SEC. 140. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. 1341.
‘‘SEC. 141. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 142. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.025 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S531
January 23, 2019
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.’’.
SEC. 102. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Further Ad-
ditional Continuing Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
SA 18. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after section 1101 and insert the
following:
TITLE XII—FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 1201. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 8, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Operations and Support’ for nec-
essary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection for operations and support, in-
cluding the transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens; the provision of air and marine
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in the enforcement or administration of laws
enforced by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity; at the discretion of the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the provision of such
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in other law enforcement and emergency hu-
manitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of
up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) po-
lice-type vehicles; the purchase, mainte-
nance, or operation of marine vessels, air-
craft, and unmanned aerial systems; and
contracting with individuals for personal
services abroad; $12,289,046,000; of which
$3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative
expenses related to the collection of the Har-
bor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section
9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and notwith-
standing section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of
which $1,555,887,000 shall be available until
September 30, 2020; and of which such sums
as become available in the Customs User Fee
Account, except sums subject to section
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budg-
et Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account:
Provided, That not to exceed $34,425 shall be
for official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That not to exceed
$150,000 shall be available for payment for
rental space in connection with preclearance
operations: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards of com-
pensation to informants, to be accounted for
solely under the certificate of the Secretary
of Homeland Security.
‘‘SEC. 138. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Procurement, Construction, and
Improvements’ for necessary expenses of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for pro-
curement, construction, and improvements,
including procurements to buy marine ves-
sels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems,
$7,334,672,000, of which $193,326,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021, and
of which $7,141,346,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which
$5,700,000,000 shall be available for purposes
authorized by section 102 of the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–208) as
amended by section 564 of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–
161), to include activities authorized under
section 1103(b) of title 8, United States Code:
Provided, That the conditions set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 230 of divi-
sion F of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141) shall apply
during fiscal year 2019 to the amounts made
available in the clause preceding this pro-
viso: Provided further, That not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Comptroller General of the
United States an updated risk-based plan for
improving security along the borders of the
United States that includes the elements re-
quired under subsection (a) of section 231 of
division F of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141), which
shall be evaluated in accordance with sub-
section (b) of such section: Provided further,
That funds provided in this section may be
used for roads, lighting, cameras, and sen-
sors.
‘‘SEC. 139. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement—Operations and Sup-
port’ for necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for oper-
ations and support, including the purchase
and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement
only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted
units; and maintenance, minor construction,
and minor leasehold improvements at owned
and leased facilities; $8,447,855,000; of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended to enforce laws against forced child
labor; of which $13,700,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not
less than $15,000,000 shall be available for in-
vestigation of intellectual property rights
violations, including operation of the Na-
tional Intellectual Property Rights Coordi-
nation Center; of which not less than
$9,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects; of which not
less than $84,000,000 shall be available for ve-
hicle fleet recapitalization; and of which not
less than $4,989,158,000 shall be for enforce-
ment, detention, and removal operations, in-
cluding transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens: Provided, That not to exceed
$11,475 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available
until expended for conducting special oper-
ations under section 3131 of the Customs En-
forcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or
reimburse other Federal agencies for the
costs associated with the care, maintenance,
and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlaw-
fully present in the United States.
‘‘SEC. 140. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. 1341.
‘‘SEC. 141. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 142. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.026 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S532 January 23, 2019
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.’’.
SEC. 1202. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
SA 19. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
DIVISION A—FURTHER ADDITIONAL
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
SEC. 101. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended—
(1) by striking the date specified in section
105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 8, 2019’’; and
(2) by adding after section 136 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 137. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Operations and Support’ for nec-
essary expenses of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection for operations and support, in-
cluding the transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens; the provision of air and marine
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in the enforcement or administration of laws
enforced by the Department of Homeland Se-
curity; at the discretion of the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the provision of such
support to Federal, State, and local agencies
in other law enforcement and emergency hu-
manitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of
up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) po-
lice-type vehicles; the purchase, mainte-
nance, or operation of marine vessels, air-
craft, and unmanned aerial systems; and
contracting with individuals for personal
services abroad; $12,289,046,000; of which
$3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative
expenses related to the collection of the Har-
bor Maintenance Fee pursuant to section
9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and notwith-
standing section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of
which $1,555,887,000 shall be available until
September 30, 2020; and of which such sums
as become available in the Customs User Fee
Account, except sums subject to section
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budg-
et Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account:
Provided, That not to exceed $34,425 shall be
for official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That not to exceed
$150,000 shall be available for payment for
rental space in connection with preclearance
operations: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards of com-
pensation to informants, to be accounted for
solely under the certificate of the Secretary
of Homeland Security.
‘‘SEC. 138. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Procurement, Construction, and
Improvements’ for necessary expenses of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection for pro-
curement, construction, and improvements,
including procurements to buy marine ves-
sels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems,
$7,334,672,000, of which $193,326,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021, and
of which $7,141,346,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2023, of which
$5,700,000,000 shall be available for purposes
authorized by section 102 of the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–208) as
amended by section 564 of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–
161), to include activities authorized under
section 1103(b) of title 8, United States Code:
Provided, That the conditions set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 230 of divi-
sion F of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141) shall apply
during fiscal year 2019 to the amounts made
available in the clause preceding this pro-
viso: Provided further, That not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2019, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Comptroller General of the
United States an updated risk-based plan for
improving security along the borders of the
United States that includes the elements re-
quired under subsection (a) of section 231 of
division F of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141), which
shall be evaluated in accordance with sub-
section (b) of such section: Provided further,
That funds provided in this section may be
used for roads, lighting, cameras, and sen-
sors.
‘‘SEC. 139. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this Act, there is appropriated for
fiscal year 2019 for ‘U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement—Operations and Sup-
port’ for necessary expenses of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement for oper-
ations and support, including the purchase
and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement
only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted
units; and maintenance, minor construction,
and minor leasehold improvements at owned
and leased facilities; $8,447,855,000; of which
$6,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended to enforce laws against forced child
labor; of which $13,700,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020; of which not
less than $15,000,000 shall be available for in-
vestigation of intellectual property rights
violations, including operation of the Na-
tional Intellectual Property Rights Coordi-
nation Center; of which not less than
$9,000,000 shall be available for facilities re-
pair and maintenance projects; of which not
less than $84,000,000 shall be available for ve-
hicle fleet recapitalization; and of which not
less than $4,989,158,000 shall be for enforce-
ment, detention, and removal operations, in-
cluding transportation of unaccompanied
minor aliens: Provided, That not to exceed
$11,475 shall be for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available
until expended for conducting special oper-
ations under section 3131 of the Customs En-
forcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000
shall be for awards of compensation to in-
formants, to be accounted for solely under
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland
Security: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or
reimburse other Federal agencies for the
costs associated with the care, maintenance,
and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlaw-
fully present in the United States.
‘‘SEC. 140. Amounts made available in this
Act for personnel pay, allowances, and bene-
fits in each department and agency shall be
available for obligations incurred pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. 1341.
‘‘SEC. 141. All obligations incurred and in
anticipation of the appropriations made and
authority granted by this Act for the pur-
poses of maintaining the essential level of
activity to protect life and property and
bringing about orderly termination of Gov-
ernment function, and for purposes as other-
wise authorized by law, are hereby ratified
and approved if otherwise in accord with the
provisions of this Act.
‘‘SEC. 142. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
‘‘(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
‘‘(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
‘‘(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘State’ and the term ‘grantee’ shall have the
meaning as such term is defined under the
applicable Federal program under subsection
(a). In addition, ‘to continue carrying out a
Federal program’ means the continued per-
formance by a State or other Federal grant-
ee, during the period of a lapse in appropria-
tions, of a Federal program that the State or
such other grantee had been carrying out
prior to the period of the lapse in appropria-
tions.
‘‘(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government which,
but for such lapse in appropriations, would
have paid, or made reimbursement relating
to, any of the expenses referred to in this
section with respect to the program in-
volved. Payments and reimbursements under
this authority shall be made only to the ex-
tent and in amounts provided in advance in
appropriations Acts.’’.
SEC. 102. For the purposes of division C of
Public Law 115–245, the time covered by such
division shall be considered to include the
period which began on or about December 22,
2018, during which there occurred a lapse in
appropriations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.024 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S533
January 23, 2019
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Further
Additional Continuing Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
DIVISION B—ADDITIONAL SUPPLE-
MENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DIS-
ASTER RELIEF, 2019
The following sums in this division are ap-
propriated, out of any money in the Treas-
ury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael or Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, typhoons, volcanic
activity, or wildfires occurring in calendar
year 2018 under such terms and conditions as
determined by the Secretary: Provided, That
the Secretary may provide assistance for
such losses in the form of block grants to eli-
gible states and territories and such assist-
ance may include compensation to pro-
ducers, as determined by the Secretary, for
past or future crop insurance premiums, for-
est restoration, and poultry and livestock
losses: Provided further, That of the amounts
provided under this heading, tree assistance
payments may be made under section 1501(e)
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nursery
tree growers (as defined in such section) of
pecan trees with a tree mortality rate that
exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality) and is less than 15 percent (adjusted
for normal mortality), to be available until
expended, for losses incurred during the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in
the case of producers impacted by volcanic
activity that resulted in the loss of crop
land, or access to crop land, the Secretary
shall consider all measures available, as ap-
propriate, to bring replacement land into
production: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading and applicable policies of crop insur-
ance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop
Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under
section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C.
7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance
for an insurable commodity for the applica-
ble crop year under the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the re-
quired paperwork and pay the service fee by
the applicable State filing deadline for a
noninsurable commodity for the applicable
crop year under NAP for the crop incurring
the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That producers receiving payments
under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop
insurance where crop insurance is available
for the next two available crop years, exclud-
ing tree insurance policies, and producers re-
ceiving payments under this heading shall be
required to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to provide a grant to the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
for disaster nutrition assistance in response
to the Presidentially declared major disas-
ters and emergencies: Provided, That funds
made available to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands under this section
shall remain available for obligation by the
Commonwealth until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
incurred from Tropical Storm Cindy and
losses of peach and blueberry crops in cal-
endar year 2017 due to extreme cold: Pro-
vided, That the amounts provided by this
section are designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018 under
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.), $600,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That within the amount appro-
priated, up to 2 percent of funds may be
transferred to the ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’
account for administration and oversight ac-
tivities: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for carrying out investigations
and audits related to the funding provided
under this heading.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.027 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S534 January 23, 2019
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this divi-
sion.
FISHERIES DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fisheries
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, and calendar year 2018
wildfires, volcanic eruptions, and earth-
quakes, $15,000,000: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this division to the
Legal Services Corporation shall be expended
for any purpose prohibited or limited by, or
contrary to any of the provisions of, sections
501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law
105–119, and all funds appropriated in this di-
vision to the Legal Services Corporation
shall be subject to the same terms and condi-
tions set forth in such sections, except that
all references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997
and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead to
2018 and 2019, respectively, and except that
sections 501 and 503 of Public Law 104–134
(referenced by Public Law 105–119) shall not
apply to the amount made available under
this heading: Provided further, That, for the
purposes of this division, the Legal Services
Corporation shall be considered an agency of
the United States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$200,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this division, to reduce
risk from future floods and hurricanes, at
full Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for high priority
studies of projects in States and insular
areas that were impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical Storm
Gita: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House and the Sen-
ate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, including new studies selected
to be initiated using funds provided under
this heading, beginning not later than 60
days after the date of enactment of this divi-
sion.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this division,
and flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which
have signed Chief’s Reports as of the date of
enactment of this division or which are stud-
ied using funds provided under the heading
‘‘Investigations’’ if the Secretary determines
such projects to be technically feasible, eco-
nomically justified, and environmentally ac-
ceptable, in States and insular areas that
were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita: Provided,
That projects receiving funds provided under
the first proviso in ‘‘Title IV—Corps of Engi-
neers—Civil—Department of the Army—Con-
struction’’ in Public Law 115–123 shall not be
eligible for funding provided under this head-
ing: Provided further, That for projects re-
ceiving funds provided under this heading,
the provisions of Section 902 of the Water
Resources Act of 1986 shall not apply to these
funds: Provided further, That the completion
of ongoing construction projects receiving
funds provided under this heading shall be at
full Federal expense with respect to such
funds: Provided further, That using funds pro-
vided under this heading, the non-Federal
cash contribution for projects other than on-
going construction projects shall be financed
in accordance with the provisions of section
103(k) of Public Law 99–662 over a period of 30
years from the date of completion of the
project or separable element: Provided fur-
ther, That up to $25,000,000 of the funds made
available under this heading shall be used for
continuing authorities projects to reduce the
risk of flooding and storm damage: Provided
further, That any projects using funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be initiated
only after non-Federal interests have en-
tered into binding agreements with the Sec-
retary requiring, where applicable, the non-
Federal interests to pay 100 percent of the
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement,
and rehabilitation costs of the project and to
hold and save the United States free from
damages due to the construction or oper-
ation and maintenance of the project, except
for damages due to the fault or negligence of
the United States or its contractors: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.027 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S535
January 23, 2019
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$225,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this division.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $245,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this division.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Compliance and Restoration’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, $2,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this division, the Survey
shall submit a report to the Committees on
Appropriations that describes the potential
options to replace the facility damaged by
the 2018 volcano disaster along with cost es-
timates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.027 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S536 January 23, 2019
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States in EPA Regions 4, 9,
and 10 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater treatment works and
drinking water facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and calendar year 2018 wildfires and earth-
quakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each
State shall use not less than 20 percent but
not more than 30 percent amount of its cap-
italization grants to provide additional sub-
sidization to eligible recipients in the form
of forgiveness of principal, negative interest
loans or grants or any combination of these:
Provided further, That the Administrator
shall retain $10,400,000 of the funds appro-
priated herein for grants for drinking water
facilities and waste water treatment plants
impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided further,
That the funds appropriated herein shall be
used for eligible projects whose purpose is to
reduce flood or fire damage risk and vulner-
ability or to enhance resiliency to rapid hy-
drologic change or natural disaster at treat-
ment works as defined by section 212 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act or any
eligible facilities under section 1452 of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other eligi-
ble tasks at such treatment works or facili-
ties necessary to further such purposes: Pro-
vided further, That the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency may re-
tain up to $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated
herein for management and oversight: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this division, the agen-
cies receiving funds appropriated by this
title shall provide a detailed operating plan
of anticipated uses of funds made available
in this title by State and Territory, and by
program, project, and activity, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and wildfires or earth-
quakes occurring in 2018 (referred to under
this heading as ‘‘covered disaster or emer-
gency’’), to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the Secretary
of Labor may transfer up to $1,000,000 of such
funds to any other Department of Labor ac-
count for reconstruction and recovery needs,
including worker protection activities: Pro-
vided further, That these sums may be used
to replace grant funds previously obligated
to the impacted areas: Provided further, That
of the amount provided, up to $500,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
transferred to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’
for oversight of activities responding to such
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $80,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2021, for Head Start programs, for necessary
expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut and Super Ty-
phoon Yutu, and wildfires or earthquakes oc-
curring in 2018 in those areas for which a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.027 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S537
January 23, 2019
major disaster or emergency has been de-
clared under section 401 or 501 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191), in-
cluding making payments under the Head
Start Act: Provided, That none of the funds
appropriated in this paragraph shall be in-
cluded in the calculation of the ‘‘base grant’’
in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is
defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A), 641A(h)(1)(B),
or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start Act: Provided
further, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph are not subject to the allocation re-
quirements of section 640(a) of the Head
Start Act: Provided further, That funds ap-
propriated in this paragraph shall not be
available for costs that are reimbursed by
the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, under a contract for insurance, or by self-
insurance: Provided further, That up to
$2,000,000 shall be available for Federal ad-
ministrative expenses: Provided further, That
obligations incurred for the purposes pro-
vided herein prior to the date of enactment
of this division may be charged to funds ap-
propriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
EMERGENCY FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Health and Social Services Emergency
Fund’’, $166,000,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2020, for necessary ex-
penses directly related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut and Super Typhoon Yutu,
and wildfires or earthquakes occurring in
2018 in those areas for which a major disaster
or emergency has been declared under sec-
tions 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to under
this heading as ‘‘covered disaster or emer-
gency’’), including activities authorized
under section 319(a) of the Public Health
Service Act (referred to in this division as
the ‘‘PHS Act’’): Provided, That of the
amount provided, $45,000,000 shall be trans-
ferred to ‘‘Health Resources and Services Ad-
ministration—Primary Health Care’’ for ex-
penses directly related to a covered disaster
or emergency for disaster response and re-
covery, for the Health Centers Program
under section 330 of the PHS Act, including
alteration, renovation, construction, equip-
ment, and other capital improvement costs
as necessary to meet the needs of areas af-
fected by a covered disaster or emergency:
Provided further, That the time limitation in
section 330(e)(3) of the PHS Act shall not
apply to funds made available under the pre-
ceding proviso: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, not less than $20,000,000
shall be transferred to ‘‘Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention—CDC-Wide Activi-
ties and Program Support’’ for response, re-
covery, mitigation, and other expenses di-
rectly related to a covered disaster or emer-
gency: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $100,000,000 shall be
transferred to ‘‘Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration—Health
Surveillance and Program Support’’ for
grants, contracts, and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, treatment of substance use dis-
orders, and other related helplines, and for
other similar programs to provide support to
individuals impacted by a covered disaster or
emergency: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of the Secretary—Office of Inspec-
tor General’’ for oversight of activities re-
sponding to such hurricanes, typhoons, and
wildfires: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
HURRICANE EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Hurricane
Education Recovery’’ for necessary expenses
directly related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
wildfires, earthquakes, or volcanic eruptions
in 2018 in those areas for which a major dis-
aster or emergency has been declared under
section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to
under this heading as a ‘‘covered disaster or
emergency’’), $165,000,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2021: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That such as-
sistance may be provided through any of the
programs authorized under this heading in
division B of title VIII of Public Law 115–123
(as amended by Public Law 115–141), as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Education, and
subject to the terms and conditions that ap-
plied to those programs, except that ref-
erences to dates and school years in Public
Law 115–123 shall be deemed to be the cor-
responding dates and school years for the
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary of Education may
determine the amounts to be used for each
such program and shall notify the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate of these
amounts not later than 7 days prior to obli-
gation: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading, to
remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Education for
oversight of activities supported with funds
appropriated under this heading, and up to
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be for program adminis-
tration.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this division, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
SEC. 702. Unless otherwise provided for by
this title, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this title to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this division, the Government
Accountability Office shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a spend
plan specifying funding estimates for audits
and investigations of any such declared dis-
asters occurring in 2018 and identifying fund-
ing estimates or carryover balances, if any,
that may be available for audits and inves-
tigations of any other such declared disas-
ters: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations
and a form 1391 for each specific project: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this division, the Sec-
retary of the Navy, or his designee, shall
submit to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate a detailed expenditure plan for funds pro-
vided under this heading: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this division, the Secretary of the
Air Force, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.027 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S538 January 23, 2019
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this division, the Director
of the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,060,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.): Provided, That funds shall be
awarded directly to the State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974) at the discretion of the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That any funds made available
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254 that remain avail-
able, after the funds under such headings
have been allocated for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under such head-
ings, shall be allocated to grantees, for miti-
gation activities in the most impacted and
distressed areas resulting from a major dis-
aster that occurred in 2018: Provided further,
That such allocations shall be made in the
same proportion that the amount of funds
each grantee received under this division and
the same heading in division I of Public Law
115–254 bears to the amount of all funds pro-
vided to all grantees that received alloca-
tions for disasters that occurred in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under the text preceding the first
proviso under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, the Sec-
retary shall allocate to all such grantees an
aggregate amount not less than 33 percent of
the sum of such amounts of funds within 120
days after the enactment of this division
based on the best available data, and shall
allocate no less than 100 percent of such
funds by no later than 180 days after the en-
actment of this division: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall not prohibit the use
of funds made available under this heading
and the same heading in Public Law 115–254
for non-Federal share as authorized by sec-
tion 105(a)(9) of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)):
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, grantees may
establish grant programs to assist small
businesses for working capital purposes to
aid in recovery: Provided further, That as a
condition of making any grant, the Sec-
retary shall certify in advance that such
grantee has in place proficient financial con-
trols and procurement processes and has es-
tablished adequate procedures to prevent
any duplication of benefits as defined by sec-
tion 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure of
funds, to maintain comprehensive websites
regarding all disaster recovery activities as-
sisted with these funds, and to detect and
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to any such
duplication of benefits, the Secretary shall
act in accordance with section 1210 of Public
Law 115–254 (132 Stat. 3442) and section 312 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):
Provided further, That the Secretary shall re-
quire grantees to maintain on a public
website information containing common re-
porting criteria established by the Depart-
ment that permits individuals and entities
awaiting assistance and the general public to
see how all grant funds are used, including
copies of all relevant procurement docu-
ments, grantee administrative contracts and
details of ongoing procurement processes, as
determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to the obligation of funds a
grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary
for approval detailing the proposed use of all
funds, including criteria for eligibility and
how the use of these funds will address long-
term recovery and restoration of infrastruc-
ture and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas: Provided further, That such
funds may not be used for activities reim-
bursed by, or for which funds have been made
available by, the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency or the Army Corps of Engi-
neers, in excess of the authorized amount of
the project or its components: Provided fur-
ther, That funds allocated under this heading
shall not be considered relevant to the non-
disaster formula allocations made pursuant
to section 106 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Pro-
vided further, That a State, unit of general
local government, or Indian tribe may use up
to 5 percent of its allocation for administra-
tive costs: Provided further, That the first
proviso under this heading in the Supple-
mental Appropriations for Disaster Relief
Requirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public
Law 115–254) is amended by striking ‘‘State
or unit of general local government’’ and in-
serting ‘‘State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe (as such term is defined
in section 102 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’:
Provided further, That the sixth proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or sub-
division thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit
of general local government, or Indian tribe
(as such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.027 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S539
January 23, 2019
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this divi-
sion or in division I of Public Law 115–254
that are allocated in response to Hurricane
Florence may be used interchangeably and
without limitation for the same activities in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
lated to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD pub-
lishes the Federal Register Notice imple-
menting this provision, grantees may submit
for HUD approval revised plans for the use of
funds related to Hurricane Matthew that ex-
pand the eligible beneficiaries of existing
programs contained in such previously ap-
proved plans to include those impacted by
Hurricane Florence. Approval of any such re-
vised plans shall include the execution of re-
vised grant terms and conditions as nec-
essary. Once the implementing Notice is
published, any additional action plan revi-
sions shall follow the requirements con-
tained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this division or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS DIVISION
SEC. 1101. Each amount appropriated or
made available by this division is in addition
to amounts otherwise appropriated for the
fiscal year involved.
SEC. 1102. No part of any appropriation
contained in this division shall remain avail-
able for obligation beyond the current fiscal
year unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 1103. Unless otherwise provided for by
this division, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this division to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 1104. Each amount designated in this
division by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
SEC. 1105. For purposes of this division, the
consequences or impacts of any hurricane
shall include damages caused by the storm
at any time during the entirety of its dura-
tion as a cyclone, as defined by the National
Hurricane Center.
SEC. 1106. Any amount appropriated by this
division, designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and
subsequently so designated by the President,
and transferred pursuant to transfer authori-
ties provided by this division shall retain
such designation.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Addi-
tional Supplemental Appropriations for Dis-
aster Relief, 2019’’.
SA 20. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Beginning on page 1, line, 3, strike ‘‘the
following sums’’ and all that follows through
page 66, line 17, and insert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Shutdown
Fairness Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
(1) the term ‘‘agency’’—
(A) means each authority of the legislative
and judicial branch of the Government of the
United States; and
(B) with respect to the executive branch of
the Government of the United States, has
the meaning given the term ‘‘Executive
agency’’ in section 105 of title 5, United
States Code, except that the term shall in-
clude the United States Postal Service and
the Postal Regulatory Commission;
(2) the term ‘‘covered individual’’ means—
(A) an excepted employee; and
(B) a qualified contract employee;
(3) the term ‘‘excepted employee’’ means
an employee, as that term is defined in sec-
tion 2105 of title 5, United States Code, who,
during a specified period of time, the head of
the agency that employs the employee deter-
mines to be performing work as an excepted
employee or an employee performing emer-
gency work, as those terms are defined by
the Office of Personnel Management; and
(4) the term ‘‘qualified contract employee’’
means an individual performing work under
a contract who—
(A) provides support to an excepted em-
ployee; and
(B) is required to perform work during a
lapse in appropriations, as determined by the
head of the agency with respect to which the
contractor provides support.
SEC. 3. APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There are appropriated
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
out of any money in the Treasury not other-
wise appropriated, for any period during
which interim or full-year appropriations for
that fiscal year are not in effect, such sums
as are necessary to provide pay, allowances,
and benefits for which a covered individual is
otherwise eligible.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—Paragraphs (2) and (3)
of section 1341(c) of title 31, United States
Code, shall not apply with respect to a cov-
ered individual that is covered under sub-
section (a).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.027 S23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S540 January 23, 2019
(c) PARTIAL HOURS.—If a covered individual
performs work covered under subsection (a)
for some, but not all, hours in the estab-
lished work schedule of the covered indi-
vidual in a pay period, the covered individual
shall be placed in a furlough status or other
appropriate nonpay status for all hours in
that schedule that are not covered under
that subsection.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
subsection (a) may be construed to permit a
covered individual to which that subsection
applies to be placed in paid leave or other
paid time off status during an applicable
lapse in appropriations.
SEC. 4. RETROACTIVITY AND TERMINATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b),
appropriations and funds made available and
authority granted under this Act shall be
available until whichever of the following
first occurs:
(1) The enactment into law of an appro-
priation (including a continuing appropria-
tion) for any purpose for which amounts are
made available under section 3.
(2) The enactment into law of the applica-
ble regular or continuing appropriations res-
olution or other Act without any appropria-
tion for such purpose.
(3) September 30, 2019.
(b) SUBSEQUENT LAPSES.—Appropriations
made available under section 3 may not be
obligated during any period during which
continuing appropriations for any purpose
for which amounts are made available under
section 3 are in effect.
SEC. 5. APPLICABILITY TO APPROPRIATION
ACTS.
Appropriations made available under sec-
tion 3 shall be available to the extent and in
the manner that would be provided by the
pertinent appropriations Act.
SEC. 6. CHARGE TO FUTURE APPROPRIATIONS.
Expenditures made pursuant to this Act
shall be charged to the applicable appropria-
tion, fund, or authorization whenever a bill
in which such applicable appropriation, fund,
or authorization is contained is enacted into
law.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 24, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 11 a.m., Thursday, Janu-
ary 24; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; finally, that following
leader remarks, the time until 12:30
p.m. be equally divided between the
two leaders or their designees.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 11 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 2:05 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
January 24, 2019, at 11 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
LISA M. SCHENCK, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A JUDGE OF THE
UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION RE-
VIEW. (NEW POSITION)
THE JUDICIARY
ROSSIE DAVID ALSTON, JR., OF VIRGINIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA, VICE GERALD BRUCE LEE, RE-
TIRED.
ROY KALMAN ALTMAN, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF FLORIDA, VICE JOAN A. LENARD, RETIRED.
RAUL M. ARIAS–MARXUACH, OF PUERTO RICO, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF
PUERTO RICO, VICE JOSE ANTONIO FUSTE, RETIRED.
BRIDGET S. BADE, OF ARIZONA, TO BE UNITED STATES
CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT, VICE BARRY G.
SILVERMAN, RETIRED.
M. MILLER BAKER, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE A JUDGE OF
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE,
VICE DONALD C. POGUE, RETIRED.
THOMAS P. BARBER, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF
FLORIDA, VICE JAMES D. WHITTEMORE, RETIRED.
PAMELA A. BARKER, OF OHIO, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO,
VICE DONALD C. NUGENT, RETIRED.
J. CAMPBELL BARKER, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS, VICE LEONARD E. DAVIS, RETIRED.
KENNETH D. BELL, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT
OF NORTH CAROLINA, VICE RICHARD L. VOORHEES, RE-
TIRED.
WENDY WILLIAMS BERGER, OF FLORIDA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE MIDDLE DIS-
TRICT OF FLORIDA, VICE JOHN E. STEELE, RETIRED.
JOSEPH F. BIANCO, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT, VICE
REENA RAGGI, RETIRED.
JEAN–PAUL BOULEE, OF GEORGIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF GEORGIA, VICE WILLIAM S. DUFFEY, JR., RETIRED.
HOLLY A. BRADY, OF INDIANA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDI-
ANA, VICE JOSEPH S. VAN BOKKELEN, RETIRED.
ANDREW LYNN BRASHER, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF
ALABAMA, VICE MARK E. FULLER, RESIGNED.
BRIAN C. BUESCHER, OF NEBRASKA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF NE-
BRASKA, VICE LAURIE SMITH CAMP, RETIRED.
JAMES DAVID CAIN, JR., OF LOUISIANA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT
OF LOUISIANA, VICE PATRICIA HEAD MINALDI, RETIRED.
STEPHEN R. CLARK, SR., OF MISSOURI, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF MISSOURI, VICE CAROL E. JACKSON, RETIRED.
CLIFTON L. CORKER, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF TENNESSEE, VICE J. RONNIE GREER, RETIRED.
DANIEL DESMOND DOMENICO, OF COLORADO, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLORADO, VICE ROBERT E. BLACKBURN, RETIRED.
PHILIP M. HALPERN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK, VICE P. KEVIN CASTEL, RETIRED.
RICHARD A. HERTLING, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A JUDGE
OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS
FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS, VICE GEORGE W. MIL-
LER, DECEASED.
RYAN T. HOLTE, OF OHIO, TO BE A JUDGE OF THE
UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS FOR A
TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS, VICE NANCY B. FIRESTONE,
TERM EXPIRED.
KARIN J. IMMERGUT, OF OREGON, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON,
VICE ANNA J. BROWN, RETIRED.
MATTHEW J. KACSMARYK, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS, VICE MARY LOU ROBINSON, RETIRED.
DAMON RAY LEICHTY, OF INDIANA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF INDIANA, VICE ROBERT L. MILLER, JR., RETIRED.
THOMAS MARCELLE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK, VICE GARY L. SHARPE, RETIRED.
PAUL B. MATEY, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT, VICE
JULIO M. FUENTES, RETIRED.
COREY LANDON MAZE, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF ALABAMA, VICE VIRGINIA EMERSON HOPKINS, RE-
TIRED.
MATTHEW WALDEN MCFARLAND, OF OHIO, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF OHIO, VICE THOMAS M. ROSE, RETIRED.
ERIC D. MILLER, OF WASHINGTON, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT, VICE
RICHARD C. TALLMAN, RETIRED.
DAVID STEVEN MORALES, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS, VICE JANIS GRAHAM JACK, RETIRED.
SARAH DAGGETT MORRISON, OF OHIO, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF OHIO, VICE GREGORY L. FROST, RETIRED.
ERIC E. MURPHY, OF OHIO, TO BE UNITED STATES CIR-
CUIT JUDGE FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT, VICE ALICE M.
BATCHELDER, RETIRED.
CARL J. NICHOLS, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA, VICE RICHARD W. ROBERTS, RETIRED.
HOWARD C. NIELSON, JR., OF UTAH, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF UTAH,
VICE BRIAN THEADORE STEWART, RETIRED.
MICHAEL H. PARK, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT, VICE
GERARD E. LYNCH, RETIRED.
J. NICHOLAS RANJAN, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, VICE KIM R. GIBSON, RE-
TIRED.
NEOMI J. RAO, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA CIRCUIT, VICE BRETT M. KAVANAUGH, ELE-
VATED.
CHAD A. READLER, OF OHIO, TO BE UNITED STATES
CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT, VICE DEBORAH
L. COOK, RETIRING.
TIMOTHY M. REIF, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE A JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF INTER-
NATIONAL TRADE, VICE RICHARD K. EATON, RETIRED.
RODOLFO ARMANDO RUIZ II, OF FLORIDA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, VICE WILLIAM J. ZLOCH, RE-
TIRED.
ALLISON JONES RUSHING, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE
UNITED STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE FOURTH CIR-
CUIT, VICE ALLYSON K. DUNCAN, RETIRING.
RODNEY SMITH, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
FLORIDA, VICE ROBIN S. ROSENBAUM, ELEVATED.
MICHAEL J. TRUNCALE, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS, VICE RONALD H. CLARK, RETIRED.
WENDY VITTER, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOU-
ISIANA, VICE HELEN G. BERRIGAN, RETIRED.
T. KENT WETHERELL II, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF FLORIDA, VICE JOHN RICHARD SMOAK, RETIRED.
ALLEN COTHREL WINSOR, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF FLORIDA, VICE ROBERT L. HINKLE, RETIRED.
JOSHUA WOLSON, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF PENNSYLVANIA, VICE JAMES KNOLL GARDNER, RE-
TIRED.
PATRICK R. WYRICK, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT
OF OKLAHOMA, VICE DAVID L. RUSSELL, RETIRED.
JOHN MILTON YOUNGE, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, VICE MARY A.
MCLAUGHLIN, RETIRED.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:27 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23JA6.028 S23JAPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E75
January 23, 2019
MARKING THE PASSING OF
THOMAS DUNCAN
HON. NANCY PELOSI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I rise to rec-
ognize and honor the life of a dedicated
former House employee, Thomas G. Duncan,
who passed away on January 16, 2019 in
Fairfax, Virginia.
Tom was born June 10, 1952, in Long
Beach, California, to Thomas Owen Duncan
and Keith Anne Gamble Duncan and grew up
in Dallas, Texas and Birmingham, Michigan.
He graduated from the College of William and
Mary in 1974 and the University of Virginia
School of Law in 1978. Following his gradua-
tion from law school, Tom began a distin-
guished thirty-year career in public service in
the House of Representatives. He began his
work in the House in 1979 as an Assistant
Parliamentarian and rose to serve as a Deputy
Parliamentarian for ten years. He went on to
serve with distinction as a staff member on the
House Committee on Financial Services, serv-
ing as general counsel to chairman from both
parties, where he consistently demonstrated
his deep commitment to upholding the integrity
of our institution, and advancing progress for
the American people.
In his more than three decades of non-
partisan service to the House, Tom always
brought the highest level of professionalism
and dedication to the table. He earned the re-
spect of Members and staff alike for his ency-
clopedic memory of facts and dates, and his
great intellect and critical willingness to hear
arguments from all sides. His unflappable de-
meanor delivered calm to many hard-fought
battles waged by the House’s most energetic
and colorful Members.
Tom’s many friends will always remember
his great love of sports, especially his fond-
ness for the Tigers, the Wahoos and the
Washington Nationals. One never wanted to
be on the opposite side of a sports trivia con-
test with Tom, but all will remember him as a
gentleman who allowed his opponents to lose
with grace. Tom could reveal a mischievous
streak when it was needed most by his col-
leagues, best and most memorably displayed
in his creation of the Hershberger Award dur-
ing his days at the College of William and
Mary.
Tom is survived by his beloved wife of 37
years, Alison, his two daughters, Katharine
Duncan (Brent DePuy) and Taylor Duncan,
and his granddaughter, Elizabeth DePuy.
The House is grateful for Tom’s contribu-
tions over his thirty-year career in our institu-
tion. May it be a comfort to Tom’s loved ones
that so many grieve with and pray for them at
this sad time.
HONORING THE LIFE OF DIONNE
BAGSBY
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I would
like to honor the life of a dear friend and true
role model, Dionne Bagsby. Her advocacy and
public service to Fort Worth pioneered the
growth and development that we see in the
community today.
Dionne was a trailblazer for minorities and
women in the city of Fort Worth. With her dy-
namic personality and straight talk, she was
able to break unprecedented racial and gen-
der barriers throughout her life and career.
Dionne was the first woman and African-
American to be elected to the Tarrant County
Commissioners Court. During her tenure on
the court, she hired the first Tarrant County
African-American precinct administrator and
greatly enhanced minority employment and
participation at the county level. When she re-
tired from the commissioner’s court in 2005,
the Texas Legislature honored her community
service in a resolution stating, ‘‘a distinguished
16-year tenure that has been characterized by
integrity and excellence.’’
Even after her retirement, she refused to
stand on the sidelines. She always encour-
aged young women to speak with confidence
and helped them aspire to careers that chal-
lenged the norm. Dionne served with a pur-
pose, making it her mission to leave Fort
Worth a better place than she found it.
Dionne Bagsby leaves behind a legacy that
will impact and empower not only the Fort
Worth community but the state of Texas for
generations to come. I am lucky to have
known someone as inspirational and dynamic
as Dionne.
My thoughts are with her family during this
difficult time.
f
COMMEMORATING ‘‘BLACK
JANUARY’’
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the 29th anniversary of the
‘‘Black January’’ killings which is one of the
most tragic events in Azerbaijan’s history.
On the night of January 20, 1990, approxi-
mately 26,000 Soviet troops stormed Azer-
baijan’s capital city of Baku in tanks and ar-
mored vehicles. That night, the Soviet military
bulldozed innocent Azerbaijanis and opened
indiscriminate fire on peaceful demonstrators,
including women and children. As a result of
these merciless acts 147 people were killed,
around 800 were injured, 841 were arrested,
and 5 went missing.
The Human Rights Watch report ‘‘Black
January in Azerbaijan’’ states that ‘‘among the
most heinous violations of human rights during
the Baku incursion were the numerous attacks
on medical personnel, ambulances, and even
hospitals.’’ The report concludes that the vio-
lence used by the Soviet Army constituted an
exercise in collective punishment and that the
punishment inflicted on Baku by Soviet sol-
diers may have been intended as a warning to
nationalists, not only in Azerbaijan, but in
other Republics of the Soviet Union. I offer my
thoughts and prayers to the families of those
who gave their lives for the independence of
Azerbaijan.
The United States and Azerbaijan are stra-
tegic allies and share common interests in the
region and globally. I commend Azerbaijan’s
contributions to the security of the United
States.
As the co-chairman of the Congressional
Azerbaijan Caucus, I urge my colleagues to
recognize the sacrifices of the Azerbaijani
people in their steps toward a free market
economy and encourage a recommitment to
the democratic values for which many
Azerbaijanis sacrificed their lives.
f
HONORING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE MERAMEC RE-
GIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the 50th Anniversary of the
Meramec Regional Planning Commission
(MRPC), officially established on January 23,
1969, by Governor Warren E. Hearnes. The
first Board of Directors elected by MRPC were
Salem Mayor Jack Masters as chairman; Leon
Camillo, representative from Potosi, as vice
chairman; Cuba Mayor John Brummet as sec-
retary; and Vienna Mayor Travis John as
treasurer. The scope of work has changed
over the years, but the overall mission re-
mains the same: To enhance the quality of life
for the Meramec Region.
The MRPC, currently serving the counties of
Crawford, Dent, Gasconade, Maries, Osage,
Phelps and Pulaski, built a strong reputation
throughout the area for its work in grant writ-
ing, economic development, community and
emergency planning, small business loan as-
sistance, housing rental assistance, and legis-
lative advocacy on behalf of the region. These
services are especially vital to small commu-
nities that often do not have the resources to
compete with larger cities for grant funding.
I congratulate MRPC on this milestone anni-
versary and appreciate the vital role they play
in the quality of life in the Meramec Region.
Today, it is my great privilege to recognize the
Meramec Regional Planning Commission be-
fore the United States House of Representa-
tives.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.001 E23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E76 January 23, 2019
IN HONOR OF MS. FRANCES
TANKERSLEY
HON. LANCE GOODEN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Frances Tankersley as the oldest ac-
tive member of First United Methodist Church
of Terrell, Texas celebrating her seventy-sec-
ond year at the age of 97.
Born to Charles and Leah Deen of Emory,
Texas on November 22, 1921, Frances was
raised in Sweetwater and received a bach-
elor’s degree from Texas Tech University. She
met her future husband Dennis Tankersley at
the United Service Organization in Lubbock.
Dennis was stationed at the South Plains
Army Airfield and had been a pilot in the Sec-
ond World War. Upon their marriage, they
moved to Terrell and began a life together
raising two sons, Jim and Greg.
Her tenure at the Terrell Independent
School District left all members of the commu-
nity with a strong appreciation of her selfless-
ness. Ms. Tankersley was a home economics
teacher and a special education department
supervisor. Additionally, she taught Sunday
school at the kindergarten level at First United
Methodist for many years and fostered the de-
velopment of generations in our community.
To this day Ms. Tankersley is involved in
Relay for Life and volunteers for Meals on
Wheels delivering hot lunches to those in
need. She is known throughout Terrell for her
kindred spirit and affectionate curiosity, as well
as her love of golf and her weekly bridge
matches.
Ms. Tankersley still resides in Terrell where
she has been an active member of her com-
munity for decades and drives herself to her
beloved church each Sunday. May her com-
mitment to service, faith and community be an
example for all of us.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON ESTES
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for Roll Call vote No. 44 on H.R. 676.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MIKE JOHNSON
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Madam Speak-
er, I was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted YEA on Roll Call
No. 43, MTR for H.J. Res. 28.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DAVID LOEBSACK
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. LOEBSACK. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to vote on January 22, 2019 due to
weather, but I strongly support the NATO Sup-
port Act. Had I been present, I would have
voted YEA on Roll Call No. 44, and YEA on
Roll Call No. 45.
f
HONORING MR. ALBERT BURSTEIN
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I would
like to call to your attention the many out-
standing achievements of Mr. Albert Burstein.
I recognize the many contributions he has
made to the people of the Ninth Congressional
District and the State of New Jersey.
Expressing the influence of Mr. Albert
Burstein to our community and country is an
honor. A Columbia graduate, lawyer, political
reformer, state legislator and World War II vet-
eran, Mr. Burstein stands as an example to us
all. As a member of our Greatest Generation,
Albert was present for many of our country’s
greatest challenges. It gives me great pleas-
ure to add my personal appreciation and com-
mendation for all that he has done.
Born on November 22, 1922, to Julius and
Hannah Burstein, Albert’s story begins with his
family in Jersey City, New Jersey. Julius and
Hannah were immigrants from Poland and Al-
bert spoke highly of their willingness and brav-
ery to start a new life here in the United
States. I know Albert was a source of great
pride flourishing in the new country they called
home. Let his experience be another success
story to others in pursuit of the American
Dream.
On December 7, 1941, the attack on Pearl
Harbor would change the lives of many Ameri-
cans, Albert Burstein included. A student in his
junior year at Columbia University, Albert was
cognizant of the looming threat in Europe.
However, the attack on Pearl Harbor would
postpone his studies at Columbia University
and on May 8, 1943 Albert would be dis-
patched to Wheeler, Georgia for basic training.
While a recruit, Albert was enrolled in the
Army Specialized Training Program (ASTP).
Assigned to study German history and lan-
guage, Mr. Burstein was temporarily trans-
ferred to the University of Nebraska to com-
plete his training. This endeavor would be
short lived since the growing demand in Eu-
rope would abruptly end many of the U.S.
Army’s training programs. Moved between
Louisiana and Mississippi for advanced infan-
try training, in the period of a month Albert
was in Cherbourg, France.
Enduring the rigors of war, Albert served our
country for thirty-three months in active duty.
For Albert’s valiant efforts in WWII, he was
honored with the Bronze Star and named to
the French Legion of Honor for his service in
France. Albert Burstein answered the call and
came home safely. WWII is one of the great-
est challenges our nation has ever faced, and
Albert Burstein stands as a great American
who answered the call to duty.
Returning to civilian life, Albert reenrolled in
Columbia University where he would meet his
wife Ruth and complete his education with a
law degree. Albert and Ruth would marry in
December of 1950 and have three beautiful
children together, Jeffrey, Diane and Laura.
Living in Jersey City, Mr. Burstein established
Wolf Baumann and Burstein, a place where he
would work for thirty years. While living in Jer-
sey City, Albert would get his first taste for
politics starting an independent committee
aimed at addressing the needs of the city and
its people. Nevertheless, Albert and Ruth
would move to Tenafly, New Jersey after de-
termining they wanted to move to a quiet
town.
Living in Bergen County, Albert would es-
tablish himself as a political authority. Holding
office in the New Jersey State Legislature for
ten years, Mr. Burstein would represent the
37th legislative district. As an Assemblyman,
Mr. Burstein would serve as the Assembly Ma-
jority leader and advance many important
causes during his time as a public servant.
Presiding on the New Jersey Election Law Re-
vision Committee and the Law Revision Com-
mission, Assemblyman Burstein championed
efforts to reform New Jersey’s election and
public financing laws.
The job of a United States Congressman in-
volves much that is rewarding, yet nothing
compares to working with and recognizing the
efforts of dedicated individuals like Mr. Albert
Burstein.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you join our col-
leagues, family, friends and the residents of
the Ninth Congressional District in recognizing,
Mr. Albert Burstein and his outstanding char-
acter and service to his country and commu-
nity.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
ELIZABETH ‘‘BETSY’’ S. LUCIDO
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the life of Mrs. Elizabeth ‘‘Betsy’’ S.
Lucido, who passed away on January 12,
2019 at the age of 75. Betsy will be remem-
bered as a loving wife, mother and for her de-
votion to God. Betsy cared for many families
in need and was a pillar in our community.
Her dedication to our Valley will be remem-
bered for years to come.
Betsy was born on August 8, 1943 in Cleve-
land, Ohio to Howard & Irene Tripp. Her family
later relocated to Fresno, California, where
she attended St. Therese Elementary School
and the Convent of the Sacred Heart of Menlo
Park High School as a resident student. After
high school, she attended the University of
San Diego, where she met the love of her life
William ‘‘Bill’’ Lucido. Betsy and Bill married in
Fresno on June 6, 1964. They were blessed
with four daughters, Maribeth, Anne, Kate and
Monica.
Betsy radiated a ‘‘motherly charm’’ and was
known for her generosity, family values and
caring personality. Betsy served her commu-
nity in a number of ways. She was a board
member of the Central California Adoption
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.002 E23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E77
January 23, 2019
Services—Infant of Prague, Right to Life of
Central California and the Ministers of Pres-
ence Guild of Catholic Charities. One accom-
plishment she was particularly proud of was
her role in the founding of Catholic Charities,
an organization which serves the needs of
those in crisis by providing food for the hungry
and hope for the weary. Betsy saw her work
as an extension of one’s home and love for
God. She was always willing to give a helping
hand and recognized everyone as a unique
child of God.
Betsy’s active work in the Fresno commu-
nity has not gone unnoticed. She was honored
by the Fresno County Women’s Chamber of
Commerce as the ‘‘Fresno County Mother of
the Year’’ in 1998. In 2012, Betsy and Bill
were the 2012 honorees at the Right to Life of
Central California annual celebration dinner.
Betsy is survived by her husband Bill and
daughters, Maribeth, Anne, Katie and Monica.
She leaves behind her grandchildren Maxwell,
Hemy, Logan, Paige, Lindsey, Grace and
Corbin, and many close friends.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the life of Elizabeth ‘‘Betsy’’ S.
Lucido. Betsy leaves behind a remarkable leg-
acy of love and selflessness, which helped
change the lives of countless men and women
in our community. It is my honor to stand with
Betsy’s family in celebration of her great life.
f
HONORING GIRLS SCOUTS OF
CONNECTICUT
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the Girl Scouts of Connecticut,
and everyone who supports the Girl Scouts of
the United States of America. Participating in
Girl Scouts helps prepare young women to
lead.
I Include in the RECORD this letter, written by
Girl Scouts Connecticut CEO Ms. Mary
Barneby and originally published in the New
Haven Register:
GIRL SCOUTS LEADER EXPRESSES THANKS
(By Ms. Mary Barneby, Girl Scouts of
Connecticut CEO)
The recently ended holiday season is a
time for giving, reflection, and expressing
gratitude for all we have been given. I know
that I am thankful for everyone who has sup-
ported our Mission at Girl Scouts of Con-
necticut. Because of you, over 26,000 Girl
Scouts in our state are thriving and building
the skills they need to change the world.
At Girl Scouts, we put every ounce of pas-
sion and energy into ensuring a bright and
equitable future for girls. It’s important now
more than ever that we support and pave the
way for girls and women. We’ve definitely
seen some progress: this past election sea-
son, more women ran for public office and
more women went to the polls top share
their voice and vote.
Girl Scouts prepares girls for life, and re-
cent stats rom the election prove that fact.
In the 116th Congress, 17 out of the 23 women
in the U.S. Senate are Girl Scouts alum, and
57 percent of women representatives in the
House of Representatives are Girl Scouts
alums, including our own Jahana Hayes, the
first African American woman from Con-
necticut elected to Congress!
At Girl Scouts, you become part of a global
sisterhood for girls to take action, lead the
way, explore the unknown, and change the
world. We offer each girl unique and unparal-
leled opportunities to pursue what she care
about, whether its technology, sports, the
arts, environmentalism, and more. No mat-
ter her passion, Girl Scouts helps her live it
out.
Again, thank you to everyone who helped
support girls and women this year. I wish
you and yours happy holidays, and look for-
ward to having more join us in the New Year.
f
SHUTDOWN IMPACTS ON AN IL–09
CONSTITUENT
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to include in the RECORD a letter from
Antonio, a constituent of mine affected by this
showdown:
‘‘I am an air traffic controller at O’Hare.
This is already a stressful job, but a job that
I love. This shutdown is adding an extra
layer of stress to all of the controllers across
the country. Our day off are the time that we
have to decompress from work and focus on
mitigating stress. With the shutdown going
past a month, we are stressing about bills,
how to put food on the table, how to pay for
childcare, etc. We don’t have the luxury of
escaping from the stress of the job, because
we come to the stress of worrying.
Finding out that our vision and dental ben-
efits would be billed to us, with the expecta-
tion that we pay out of pocket, despite not
having a paycheck for over a month, has
only added to that stress. This shutdown is
going to be a massive safety risk for the fly-
ing public if it doesn’t end soon.
Controllers will retire or quit to find an-
other source of income. It would be heart-
breaking to have to leave this job, that I
love so much, because I had to find a way to
feed my family. It would mean a lot to me if
there was any way this could be distributed
to the other members of Congress. I feel it is
a very important message for them all to
see.’’
Everyday this week, I will be coming to the
House floor to tell stories of everyday people
who are affected by this Trump I Shutdown. It
is time for President Trump to re-open the
government and pay the hard-working Ameri-
cans serving their country through public serv-
ice.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON ESTES
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for Roll Call vote No. 45 on H.R. 328.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
TRIBUTE TO CRAIG W. FLOYD
HON. STENY H. HOYER
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I rise to con-
gratulate my good friend Craig W. Floyd on
his retirement after thirty-four years of service
as the founding Chief Executive Officer of the
National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial
Fund. Craig retired at the end of 2018 and
leaves behind a powerful legacy of service to
the men and women of law enforcement
across our nation. I have been proud to work
closely with Craig over the years on a cause
about which we both care very deeply: hon-
oring those who have fallen while protecting
our communities.
Craig helped launch the National Law En-
forcement Officers Memorial Fund in 1984,
partnering with his former boss—and my
friend—former Rep. Mario Biaggi of New York
and others to establish a permanent memorial
in Washington. In 1991, the National Law En-
forcement Officers Memorial was unveiled,
and it now preserves the names of 21,541 law
enforcement officers who gave their lives in
the line of duty. It stands as a powerful re-
minder to the millions of visitors to the nation’s
capital of the service and sacrifices of those
keeping them safe back home and in every
community. In 2018, the National Law En-
forcement Museum was opened near the me-
morial to tell the stories of the men and
women whose names are borne upon its
walls.
Craig was instrumental in bringing this vi-
sion to completion and establishing the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Officers Memorial and
the National Law Enforcement Museum.
Under his guidance, the National Law Enforce-
ment Officers Memorial Fund launched the
world’s most comprehensive database of law
enforcement officers killed in the line of duty;
published To Serve and Protect—a Tribute to
American Law Enforcement; built partnerships
with the Department of Justice and Depart-
ment of Transportation to promote officers’
safety and wellbeing; and inaugurated the tra-
dition of holding annual candlelight vigils dur-
ing National Police Week in May. In many
ways, these all stand not only to pay homage
to the men and women of law enforcement but
also as a lasting tribute to citizens like Craig
W. Floyd who dedicated their careers to hon-
oring and aiding these heroes.
I hope my colleagues will join me in thank-
ing Craig for his service and wishing him well
in his retirement. I encourage everyone to visit
the National Law Enforcement Officers Memo-
rial and the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in our nation’s capital to learn about the
service of those who put their lives on the line
to protect our communities every day.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF DR.
RONALD WAYNE MERTHIE
HON. STEPHANIE N. MURPHY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mrs. MURPHY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of a spiritual leader
in my central Florida community, Dr. Ronald
Merthie, who recently passed away.
A proud son of Seminole County, Dr.
Merthie attended Crooms High School, where
he was elected class president. He went to
Texas Southern University on an athletic
scholarship and, upon graduation, returned
home to become a teacher, assistant principal,
and coach.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.007 E23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E78 January 23, 2019
Dr. Merthie struggled with substance abuse
for a period of time. But he found strength and
redemption through faith, overcoming personal
hardship, serving as a role model to others,
and becoming a pillar of his community.
Dr. Merthie’s life was filled with action and
achievement. He established the New Life
Word Center Church, offered spiritual guid-
ance on a weekly broadcast, and empowered
the next generation by founding a K-through-
12 school.
It was Dr. King who said that ‘‘Life’s most
persistent and urgent question is, ‘What are
you doing for others?’ ’’
Dr. Merthie devoted his life to serving oth-
ers. He lead a good life in the most meaning-
ful sense of the term. He will be deeply
missed.
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring
this exceptional man and offering our condo-
lences to his family and all those whose lives
he touched.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE VA MEDIC-
INAL CANNABIS RESEARCH ACT
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I have met
with multiple veterans in my congressional dis-
trict who attest to the therapeutic benefits of
medical cannabis in managing their pain.
According to the American Legion, a signifi-
cant number of veterans across the country—
not just in my district—are currently using
medical cannabis as an alternative treatment.
With so many veterans using cannabis for
therapeutic purposes, it is important that phy-
sicians have the information and research
necessary to fully advice on the potential im-
pacts of medical cannabis usage on post-trau-
matic stress and chronic pain. The U.S. De-
partment of Veterans Affairs is uniquely posi-
tioned to pursue that vital research.
To that end, I am introducing the bipartisan
VA Medicinal Cannabis Research Act, which
requires VA to conduct clinical research on the
safety and effectiveness of medical cannabis,
in varying forms and delivery methods, for
treating veterans diagnosed with post-trau-
matic stress disorder (PTSD) and veterans
with chronic pain. The legislation requires VA
to submit annual reports to Congress on the
implementation of this bill for five years. The
VA Medicinal Cannabis Research Act is a
pragmatic and sensible approach to the need
for additional research and could potentially
save veterans’ lives.
f
CONGRATULATING MR. JOHN
ELLIOTT
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate Mr. John Elliott on retiring from
his position as Vice President and Senior
Trust Officer of 1st Source Bank in Warsaw,
Indiana. For nearly fifty years, John has
served the northeast Indiana community with
distinction as an engaged citizen, cherished
friend, and valued trust officer.
John graduated with a business degree
from The Ohio State University in 1966, and
immediately began his storied career as a
trust officer at First National Bank of Warsaw.
To further his education, John enrolled at the
ABA Graduate School of Banking at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, as well as the National
Graduate Trust School at Northwestern Uni-
versity. John also spent countless hours con-
suming information at the Warsaw Public Li-
brary, with the ultimate goal of providing the
best customer service possible.
Using his foundation in academia, John El-
liott devoted himself to his clients, ensuring
they made sound decisions that would provide
future financial security. John built a reputation
for honesty, integrity and service. He was
known as someone who could be counted on,
day or night, to provide exceptional support.
When First National Bank was purchased by
National City Bank, John partnered with Steve
Wessell to open a 1st Source Personal Trust
Office where he continued to serve clients with
honesty and integrity.
John has held numerous board positions
and is a longtime member of the Warsaw Edu-
cational Foundation, Right to Life Advisory
Board, and the Warsaw Plan Commission. In
2008, John Elliott was awarded the Earnestine
M. Raclin Lifetime Achievement Award, and
the Warsaw/Kosciusko County Man of the
Year for his service to the community. In
2018, he was awarded Optimist of the Year by
the Warsaw Optimist Club.
I wish John, his wife Elaine, and their family
all the best in this new chapter of life. War-
saw, Indiana thanks him for over 50 years of
dedication and service.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE ENDING
CORPORAL PUNISHMENT IN
SCHOOLS ACT OF 2019
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce the Ending Corporal Pun-
ishment in Schools Act of 2019.
This bill would prohibit any educational insti-
tution from receiving federal funding that al-
lows school personnel to inflict corporal pun-
ishment on students and creates grants to en-
courage improvements in schools, which pro-
mote positive behaviors.
Madam Speaker, corporal punishment is a
form of physical punishment where someone
deliberately inflicts pain on another individual
in order to punish them. In schools, it includes
the spanking or paddling of children by school
officials.
Although corporal punishment in schools
has certainly been part of this country’s his-
tory, it has been a blemish on that history and
must end immediately. In addition to the fact
that there is no conclusive evidence that cor-
poral punishment mollifies disruptive behavior,
it is disproportionately used against African
American students and children with disabil-
ities. These punishments can result in physical
as well as emotional harm to children.
Schools must be a safe place where stu-
dents are protected from harm, so that they
are able to thrive, grow, and learn. Sadly, 19
states still allow corporal punishments in
school. Last year, more than 100,000 students
were physically punished by being hit,
slapped, and spanked. This is completely un-
acceptable.
Madam Speaker, schools must be a safe
space for our children to learn. I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this critically
important bill, and hope to see its swift pas-
sage very soon.
f
CONGRATULATING GREG
POHLMAN ON HIS INDUCTION
INTO THE ILLINOIS HIGH
SCHOOL BASEBALL COACHES AS-
SOCIATION
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Greg Pohlman, who is being in-
ducted into the Illinois High School Baseball
Coaches Association Hall of Fame. Mr.
Pohlman served Carrollton Community High
School for 40 years as a coach, teacher and
athletic director.
Mr. Pohlman retired from his post as the
baseball coach at Carrollton in 2016 after a
long, successful career where he tallied up
over 500 career wins. Under his leadership,
the Carrollton Hawks went on to win the 2011
Illinois High School Association Class 1A
State Championship following a 31 win sea-
son. This championship season gave Mr.
Pohlman the record for most wins in a single
season and is an outstanding coaching
achievement. Mr. Pohlman’s accomplishments
demonstrate not only his extensive knowledge
of the game, but also his commitment to the
students he coached. Throughout his tenure,
Mr. Pohlman rightfully earned a reputation of
being a great role model to young student ath-
letes and someone who truly gave his all to
allow students to compete and learn to the
best of their abilities. However, his impact
went beyond the sports he coached—through-
out all of his years as a teacher and coach, he
tried to instill in his students and athletes the
importance of being productive members of
our society. Mr. Pohlman is an exceptional
leader in our community and it is fitting that
his years of service are being recognized in
this way.
It is because of dedicated leaders such as
Greg Pohlman that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
congratulate Greg Pohlman on his well-earned
induction into the Baseball Coaches’ Hall of
Fame and thank him for all of his service to
the community.
f
HONORING GLEN WOOD
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I offer
these remarks in honor of Glen Wood, a
founder of the legendary Wood Brothers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.012 E23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E79
January 23, 2019
NASCAR racing team, who died on January
18, 2019 at the age of 93. Glen Wood was a
giant of auto racing, an owner and driver on
the longest-running team in NASCAR history.
Stock car racing has a long and storied her-
itage in Southwest and Southside Virginia, and
Glen Wood, a native of Stuart in Patrick Coun-
ty, made notable contributions of his own to
the sport. A trip to Daytona Beach in 1947
fired Mr. Wood’s passion for racing, but he
earned his place in racing history three years
later when he founded Wood Brothers Racing
with his brother Leonard. As he recalled to the
Associated Press, ‘‘We started racing in 1950
with a car we bought for $50. We put No. 50
on the side of the car because it just seemed
like the right thing to do.’’
Wood Brothers Racing eventually changed
the number to 21, and they became a power-
house, winning 99 victories in over 1,500
starts in NASCAR’s top division. Glen Wood
earned four of them himself as a driver. Many
of the others were won by some of the sport’s
greatest competitors, including Cale Yar-
borough, Curtis Turner, A.J. Foyt, and David
Pearson, driving for the Wood Brothers team.
The Wood Brothers also brought innovation to
the pit stop, drastically reducing its average
length. These accomplishments garnered Glen
Wood many accolades, including a place in
the NASCAR Hall of Fame and recognition as
one of NASCAR’s 50 Greatest Drivers.
Glen Wood was known for his success on
the race track and for his gentlemanly de-
meanor off it. In his later years, he could be
found at the Wood Brothers Racing Museum
in Stuart greeting fans with his wife Bernece.
Wood Brothers Racing remains a family busi-
ness to this day, with Glen’s oldest son Eddie
now its president. Glen Wood was a towering
figure in auto racing, and his legacy still en-
dures. I offer my condolences to Mr. Wood’s
family on their loss.
f
IN MEMORY OF REDD REYNOLDS
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, last week South Carolina paid de-
served tribute to the late Redd Reynolds who
was appreciated as the ‘‘South Carolina Bob
Hope’’ of the National Guard. I include in the
RECORD his thoughtful obituary, which was
published January 15th in The State news-
paper.
LEXINGTON.—Clarence T. ‘‘Redd’’ Reynolds,
91, went home to be with the Lord on Sunday
January 13, 2019. The son of the late Henry
and Lottie Reynolds, Redd was born Jan. 17,
1927 and grew up in Lexington, South Caro-
lina, where he attended Lexington schools.
He honorably served in the 78th Division of
the United States Army in World War II and
with the Armed Forces Radio Network. Fol-
lowing World War II, Redd attended
Newberry College and, most importantly,
married the beautiful Doris Rawl on Aug. 26,
1950.
Redd became a prominent radio person-
ality and broadcaster at WBLR 1430 AM in
Batesburg. As a result of his ties in the
broadcasting industry and his patriotism, he
and Doris created Caravan of Stars, a trav-
eling music and dance group that enter-
tained troops at military bases in Georgia,
Virginia and Mississippi. Redd was consid-
ered the Bob Hope of the National Guard,
producing and directing shows for more than
30 years. In 1987 he was honored with the
Order of the Palmetto by Gov. Carroll Camp-
bell.
Redd was a committed member of Amer-
ican Legion Post 7 for more than five dec-
ades, dedicating his time and talents to the
cultivation of his beloved community. He
made significant contributions to the Pal-
metto Boys and Girls State programs, as
well as American Legion Post 7 baseball. He
also served on Lexington Medical Center’s
board of trustees from 1978 to 1987.
In 2012, Redd was thrilled to be selected for
the Honor Flight program, joining other
South Carolina World War II veterans on a
trip to visit war memorials in Washington,
D.C.
Redd was a vibrant member of St. John’s
Lutheran Church in Lexington, serving with
Lutheran Men in Mission and as a Sunday
School teacher, Young at Heart member and
church council member. He and Doris also
teamed tirelessly to care for the grounds of
St. John’s. If it was happening in God’s
house, Redd participated.
Surviving Redd are his wife of 68 years,
Doris; children Terry (Anne) Reynolds, Phil
(Janice) Reynolds, Jandell (Richard) Morri-
son and Barry (Jeanne) Reynolds; grand-
children Clay (Lindsey) Reynolds, Justin
(Rachel) Reynolds, David (Ann Marie) Rey-
nolds, Macaulay Morrison and Caroline Mor-
rison; and great-grandchildren Cale, Jack
Wyatt and Amelia Reynolds. Redd was pre-
deceased by his two sisters, Betty Hutto and
Pauline Salter.
The family will receive friends and the
community at Barr-Price Funeral Home and
Crematorium, Lexington Chapel from 5:00
p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Tuesday, January 15, 2019. A
celebration of life and interment will be held
at St. John’s Lutheran Church 3:00 p.m.
Wednesday January 16, 2019. In lieu of flow-
ers, the family requests donations be made
to St. John’s Lutheran Church or to the
Redd and Doris Family ROTC Grant-in-Aid
at Clemson University. (Mail to Deborah
Towery, Clemson University Foundation,
P.O. Box. 1889, Clemson, SC. 29633.)
f
HONORING RABBI EPHRAIM SIMON
OF TEANECK
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to acknowledge the outstanding and
selfless achievements of Rabbi Ephraim
Simon.
Rabbi Simon is the director of Chabad of
Teaneck, New Jersey. As a rabbi, he has fo-
cused his studies on the three intellectual divi-
sions of wisdom, comprehension, and knowl-
edge but also a great focus on responsibility
and love. For some, these may just seem like
religious principles, but to Rabbi Simon they
are more than that: they are guiding outlines
for how to live one’s life that he emphasizes
every day in service to his community.
Rabbi Simon’s commitment to community
and charity was evident in 2009 when the
rabbi selflessly donated one of his kidneys to
a total stranger. This noble act saved the life
of a father of 10. Because of Rabbi Simon’s
generosity, he inspired others in the Teaneck
community to follow in his footsteps and reg-
ister as organ donors.
Rabbi Simon could have stopped there, but
he did not. Nearly a decade later he saved yet
another stranger’s life. Enduring a difficult sur-
gery, on December 20, 2018 Rabbi Simon do-
nated a third of his liver to Adam Levitz, a fa-
ther of three suffering from critical liver failure.
This act of goodness has given Mr. Levitz a
new chance at life.
To give a kidney or a liver is an act very few
can say they have done, to have given both
to complete strangers is an act of generosity
unknown to nearly all of us. The rarity of these
procedures is not only due to a requirement of
great courage and selflessness, but also due
to the great physical risks they carry for the
health of the donor. Donating part of one’s
liver, when one also only has one kidney, has
such risks of complications that Rabbi Simon
and Mr. Levitz could only find one clinic in the
country who would perform the procedure.
Rabbi Simon’s inspiring acts are done not
for publicity, but out of a desire to inspire oth-
ers to have a positive impact on those around
them. In the words of Rabbi Simon, ‘‘a rabbi’s
greatest lesson is how he lives his life.’’
Madam Speaker, Rabbi Simon’s selfless
acts serve as an inspiration not just to his wife
and nine children, but also to the community
in Northern New Jersey and across our coun-
try. Rabbi Simon deserves great respect for
his deeds.
To honor Rabbi Simon and his acts, I wish
to recognize his commitments to saving lives
and improving the world around him.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 44, and YEA on Roll
Call No. 45.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, on
January 22, 2019, I missed recorded votes
No. 44 and No. 45 due to travel delays.
Had I been present, on Roll Call No. 44, I
would have voted YEA (Passage of H.R. 328);
and on Roll Call No. 45, I would have voted
YEA (Passage of H.R. 676).
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I was unable to cast my vote on January 22,
2019 for Roll Call Vote 44 and Roll Call Vote
45. Had I been present, my vote would have
been the following: ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call Vote 44
and ‘‘yea’’ on 45.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.017 E23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E80 January 23, 2019
TRIBUTE TO THE STAFF OF THE
CAPITAL GAZETTE, RECOGNIZED
AMONG TIME MAGAZINE’S PER-
SON OF THE YEAR HONOREES
HON. STENY H. HOYER
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay
a heartfelt tribute to the men and women of
the Capital Gazette. The staff at the daily
paper, based in Annapolis and covering news
across Anne Arundel County and the sur-
rounding area, were recognized last month by
TIME as one of its ‘Person of the Year’ hon-
orees. They joined murdered Saudi journalist
Jamal Khashoggi; Maria Ressa, a reporter in
the Philippines working to expose corruption
amid the country’s drug war; and Burmese
journalists Kyaw Soe Oo and Wa Lone, im-
prisoned for covering the plight of Rohingya
refuges. TIME’s award focused on the dan-
gers facing journalists as they seek to fulfill
their role as ‘guardians’ of truth. At the Capital
Gazette, that danger took the form of a deadly
mass shooting on June 28, 2018, which killed
five employees and injured several others.
On that tragic day, a gunman entered the
Capital Gazette offices in Annapolis and took
the lives of Gerald Fischman, Rob Hiaasen,
John McNamara, Wendi Winters, and Re-
becca Smith. It was a targeted attack by a
mentally disturbed individual who should never
have been able to acquire dangerous firearms.
The attack came after months of vitriol leveled
at the press, where reporters were called
‘enemy of the people’ and lambasted as pur-
veyors of ‘fake news.’ To their credit, even
after this deadly shooting took the lives of their
friends and colleagues and after having to en-
dure threats targeted at them and other jour-
nalists, the staff of the Capital Gazette contin-
ued their important work of reporting the news
to the people of Maryland and released an
edition of the paper the very next day. They
would not be deterred from their mission, so
critical to our open and deliberative democ-
racy.
Madam Speaker, I hope all of the Members
of this House will join me in congratulating the
Capital Gazette and thanking its staff for the
hard work they do every day—as well as all
the members of the press who are risking
danger to report the news. We must continue
to stand up for the freedom of the press,
which is critical to the liberty of our people and
to all nations around the world.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOSH HARDER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. HARDER. Madam Speaker, I missed
these votes because of travel delay.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 44, and YEA on Roll
Call No. 45.
CONGRATULATING THE SAUK VAL-
LEY AREA OF COMMERCE ON RE-
CEIVING A FIVE-STAR ACCREDI-
TATION FROM THE UNITED
STATES CHAMBER OF COM-
MERCE
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate the Sauk Valley Area Chamber
of Commerce on receiving a Five-Star Accred-
itation from the United States Chamber of
Commerce. The Sauk Valley Area Chamber of
Commerce was one of 120 chambers across
the nation to receive this accreditation this
past year.
Founded in 1912, the Sauk Valley Area
Chamber of Commerce has gone on to de-
velop their organization’s abilities into one of
the finest in the nation. The Sauk Valley Area
Chamber of Commerce represents many com-
munities across both Illinois and Iowa, where
they work to expand economic opportunities in
the region. With this accreditation, it is clear
the Sauk Valley Area will continue to benefit
from the efforts of this organization as we
begin the new year. I am impressed by the
work they have done to improve the well-being
of local businesses across our region and con-
gratulate them on a job well done. As we look
to the future, I am eager to see how the Sauk
Valley Area Chamber of Commerce builds
upon this distinction and uses it to expand
upon their successes and continue to improve
the local business community. A strong work-
force is key to a strong community, and this
five-star recognition speaks volumes to that
commitment.
It is because of groups such as the Sauk
Valley Area Chamber of Commerce that I am
especially proud to serve Illinois’ 17th Con-
gressional District. Madam Speaker, I would
like to again formally congratulate the Sauk
Valley Area Chamber of Commerce on its five-
star accreditation and thank them for their
service to our community.
f
CONGRATULATING TONY ANDER-
SON FOR RECEIVING THE 2018
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE AWARD
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Tony Anderson for receiv-
ing the 2018 Distinguished Service Award
from the Traverse City Area Chamber of Com-
merce. Through his exceptional leadership
and steadfast devotion to his community, Tony
has become an indispensable part of Northern
Michigan.
Since 1929, the Distinguished Service
Award has been given to leaders who have
had a tremendously positive impact on the
Traverse City area. Through his decades of
service to his community, Tony has shown
himself to be more than deserving of this
honor. Through his Marathon4Kids organiza-
tion, Tony has completed 43 marathons in 43
states and raised more than $400,000 for Big
Brothers Big Sisters of Northwest Michigan.
This year, he plans on running in Mississippi,
Idaho, Kansas, and New Mexico as a part of
his mission to complete marathons in all 50
states and the District of Columbia.
Tony’s determination has been previously
recognized on multiple occasions, including
being named ‘‘Volunteer of the Year’’ at the
2012 Michigan Governor’s Service Awards. In
addition to his work with Marathon4Kids, Tony
has served as a volunteer firefighter, an emer-
gency medical technician, and as a key mem-
ber of the Traverse City Area Chamber of
Commerce. Additionally, he is the former
president of the Freedom Builders—a faith-
based organization that provides housing as-
sistance to the local community. The impact of
his work in Traverse City and across Michigan
cannot be understated.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late Tony Anderson for receiving the 2018 Dis-
tinguished Service Award. Michiganders can
take great pride in knowing the First District is
home to such a selfless leader. On behalf of
my constituents, I wish Tony all the best in his
future endeavors.
f
DIRECTING SECRETARY OF STATE
TO DEVELOP STRATEGY TO RE-
GAIN OBSERVER STATUS FOR
TAIWAN IN WORLD HEALTH OR-
GANIZATION
SPEECH OF
HON. TED S. YOHO
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 22, 2019
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 353, my bill that directs the Secretary of
State to develop a strategy to regain observer
status for Taiwan in the World Health Organi-
zation.
I would first like to thank Chairman ENGEL
and Ranking Member MCCAUL for working
with my team to bring this great legislation to
the floor. From 2009 to 2016, Taiwan attended
the World Health Assembly, the World Health
Organization’s annual summit, under the sta-
tus of an observer. However, following the
election of Taiwan’s current President Tsai
Ing-wen, the People’s Republic of China has
stepped up its campaign to marginalize Tai-
wan’s participation in the international commu-
nity. In 2017 and 2018, due to increased polit-
ical pressure from the People’s Republic of
China, Taiwan did not receive an invitation to
the World Health Assembly.
Taiwan’s exclusion from the World Health
Assembly, serves no purpose other than to
placate Beijing’s insecurity. The World Health
Organization exists to address shared
transnational health challenges, and Taiwan
has proven time and again that it is a model
contributor to world health. Since 1996, Tai-
wan has invested over $6 billion in inter-
national medical and humanitarian aid efforts
impacting over 80 countries.
The United States and the U.S. Congress
have long supported Taiwan’s participation in
international organizations, and this legislation
will continue this important work. My bill will
help ensure that the U.S. diplomatic strategy
to advocate for Taiwan’s presence at the
World Health Assembly adapts to Beijing’s in-
creased efforts to box out Taiwan. A similar
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.023 E23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E81
January 23, 2019
bill, which I introduced in the 115th Congress,
passed the House with unanimous support.
Taiwan is a benevolent actor on the inter-
national stage, and it deserves to keep the
place it has earned. The next World Health
Assembly will take place in May of this year.
Passage of my bill will be a timely opportunity
for the House to recommit to longstanding
U.S. policy, and take a firm stand in the face
of Beijing’s increasingly oppressive tactics. I
urge my colleagues to support Taiwan’s par-
ticipation in the World Health Organization as
an observer by supporting this legislation.
f
SENIOR BISHOP MCKINLEY YOUNG
HON. JOHN LEWIS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. LEWIS. Madam Speaker, I am sad-
dened to share that my friend passed away
last week. I rise today with a heavy heart to
recognize Senior Bishop McKinley Young, who
served as the 109th Bishop from Big Bethel
AME Church in Atlanta since 1992.
One of the beloved sons of Atlanta, he was
a man of the people and for the people. After
completing his studies in Atlanta’s public
schools, Bishop Young continued his edu-
cation by earning degrees from Morris Brown
College, Andover Newton Theological School,
and the University of Chicago Divinity School.
An additional six institutions of higher edu-
cation recognized him with honorary doctorate
degrees.
Over the years, the Bishop pastored in
Providence, Rhode Island, Chicago and
Evanston, Illinois, but Atlanta was always
home. In our community, he was committed to
the souls of his congregants and service to
our society.
Throughout Metro Atlanta, Bishop Young ini-
tiated voter registration, education, mobiliza-
tion, which led to a day of action at the Geor-
gia State Capitol. He was an active supporter
of the African Methodist Episcopal Church
Service and Development Agency (AME–
SADA) for over 20 years and most recently
served as chair of the board. Bishop Young
also served as the president of the Council of
Bishops and the General Board and chaired
the Commissions on Women in Ministry, Glob-
al Witness and Ministry, Annuity Investments
and Insurance, and the Commission on
Church Growth and Development.
This great man spoke up and spoke out on
behalf of those who had no one to speak for
them. Bishop Young worked tirelessly to give
hope and opportunity to those, who were left
out and left behind. He ministered to those
who were lost in the wilderness of despair. In
my heart of hearts I know that the impact of
his prophetic leadership will be felt by genera-
tions yet unborn.
Madam Speaker, today, I offer my deepest
condolences to his loving wife, Dorothy Jack-
son Young; children, Karyn (Ron) Young-
Lowe, Deana (Julius) McAllister, Andrea (Rod-
erick) Jones and Stephanie Lynn Young;
grandchildren, Jennifer Renee and Jessica
Christina Lowe, Julius III, Colin and Dylan
McAllister, Peyton, Noah and Miles Jones. I
thank them for sharing this ‘‘faithful giant’’ with
us.
INTRODUCTION OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA PAPERWORK RE-
DUCTION ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the District of Columbia Paperwork
Reduction Act to eliminate the wasteful con-
gressional review process for legislation
passed by the District of Columbia Council
and to align longtime congressional practice
and the law. The congressional review proc-
ess for D.C. bills is almost entirely ignored by
Congress, providing it no benefit, but imposes
substantial costs (in time and money) on the
District. Congress has almost always used the
appropriations process, rather than the dis-
approval process, to block or nullify D.C. bills
and entirely abandoned the congressional re-
view process as its mechanism for nullifying
D.C. bills 24 years ago, having only used it
three times before then. Yet Congress still re-
quires the D.C. Council to use Kafkaesque
make-work procedures to comply with the
abandoned congressional review process es-
tablished by the D.C. Home Rule Act.
Our bill would eliminate the congressional
review process for bills passed by the D.C.
Council. However, Congress would lose no
authority it currently exercises because, even
upon enactment of this bill, Congress would
retain its authority under Clause 17 of Section
8 of Article I of the U.S. Constitution to amend
or overturn any D.C. laws at any time.
The congressional review process (30 days
for civil bills and 60 days for criminal bills) in-
cludes those days when either house of Con-
gress is in session, delaying D.C. bills from
becoming law, often for many months. The
delay forces the D.C. Council to pass most
bills several times, using a cumbersome and
complicated process to ensure that the oper-
ations of this large and rapidly changing city
continue uninterrupted, avoiding a lapse of a
bill before it becomes final. The congressional
calendar means that a 30-day period usually
lasts a couple of months and often much
longer because of congressional recesses. For
example, the congressional review period for a
bill that changed the word ‘‘handicap’’ to ‘‘dis-
ability’’ lasted nine months. The Council esti-
mates that 50 to 65 percent of the bills it
passes could be eliminated if the review proc-
ess did not exist. To ensure that a bill does
not lapse, the Council often must pass the
same bill in three forms: emergency (in effect
for 90 days), temporary (in effect for 225 days)
and permanent. Moreover, the Council has to
carefully track the days the House and Senate
are in session for each D.C. bill it passes to
avoid gaps and to determine when the bills
have taken effect. The Council estimates that
it could save 5,000 employee hours and
160,000 sheets of paper per two-year Council
period if the review process were eliminated.
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy ad-
dressed the issue of saving such resources by
eliminating the amount of paperwork sent to
Congress when he proposed a cut in the num-
ber of reports that federal agencies are re-
quired to submit to Congress. Our bill is a per-
fect candidate because it eliminates a paper-
work process that repeats itself without inter-
ruption.
My bill would do no more than align the
Home Rule Act with congressional practice
over the last 24 years. Of the more than 5,000
legislative acts transmitted to Congress since
the Home Rule Act was passed in 1973, only
three resolutions disapproving D.C. bills have
been enacted (in 1979, 1981, and 1991) and
two of those mistakenly involved federal inter-
ests—one in the Height Act and the other in
the location of chanceries. Placing a congres-
sional hold on more than 5,000 D.C. bills has
not only proven unnecessary, but has imposed
costs on the D.C. government, residents and
businesses. District residents and businesses
are also placed on hold because they have no
certainty when D.C. bills, from taxes to regula-
tions, will take effect, making it difficult to plan.
It is particularly unfair to require the D.C.
Council to engage in this unnecessary, labor-
intensive and costly process. My bill would
only eliminate the automatic hold placed on
D.C. bills and the need for the D.C. Council to
comply with a process initially created for the
convenience of Congress, but that is now al-
most never used. This bill would promote effi-
ciency and cost savings for Congress, the Dis-
trict and D.C. residents and businesses with-
out reducing congressional oversight, and
would carry out the policy stressed by Con-
gress of eliminating needless paperwork and
make-work redundancy.
I urge my colleagues to support this good-
government measure.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I was
unavoidably absent on Tuesday, January 22,
2019.
On Roll Vote No. 44, on passage of H.R.
676—NATO Support Act, if I had been present
I would have voted YES.
On Roll Call Vote No. 45, on passage of
H.R. 328—Hack Your State Department Act, if
I had been present, I would have voted YES.
f
OBSERVING THE 29TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF BLACK JANUARY
HON. STEVE CHABOT
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in observance of the 29th anniversary of Black
January, January 20, a historic and tragic day
in the history of the country of Azerbaijan and
to remember the lives lost at the hands of So-
viet brutality 29 years ago.
On the night of January 20, 1990, 26,000
Soviet troops invaded the capital city of Baku
and surrounding areas. As a result of this vio-
lent crackdown on the Azerbaijani people,
more than 147 innocent civilians died, around
800 people were injured, and hundreds were
arrested. This event has remained embedded
in Azerbaijan’s national history and in the
minds of its citizens as ‘‘Black January.’’ This
tragic event is seen as the rebirth of the Azer-
baijan Republic.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.027 E23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E82 January 23, 2019
This attack was a desperate attempt to
squelch the independence movement that was
gaining momentum in Azerbaijan and to res-
cue the totalitarian regime, the rule of Com-
munist Party, and the whole Soviet Union.
This attack, however, produced opposite re-
sults, further inflaming the independence
movement in Azerbaijan as well as those in
other Republics of the former Soviet Union.
Popular pressure led the country to break
away from Soviet rule and declare its inde-
pendence. On August 30, 1991, Azerbaijan’s
Parliament adopted the Declaration on the
Restoration of the State Independence of the
Republic of Azerbaijan, and on October 18,
1991, the Constitutional Act on the State Inde-
pendence of the Republic of Azerbaijan was
approved.
November 1991 marked the beginning of
international recognition of Azerbaijan’s inde-
pendence. The United States was among the
first nations to recognize the young country’s
independence when we established diplomatic
relations on February 28, 1992 and opened an
embassy in Baku in March.
Today, the U.S. and Azerbaijan share many
interests and objectives for the region as we
cooperate on a broad range of issues, espe-
cially energy development and security con-
cerns.
I encourage my colleagues to join with me
and the Azerbaijani people as they remember
this tragedy.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
January 24, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JANUARY 29
9:30 a.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To hold hearings to examine worldwide
threats.
SH–216
10 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine China and
Russia.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Nicole R. Nason, of New York,
to be Administrator of the Federal
Highway Administration, Department
of Transportation.
SD–406
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine access to
care, focusing on health centers and
providers in underserved communities.
SD–430
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by
the committee during the 116th Con-
gress.
SD–342
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine drug pricing
in America.
SD–215
12:15 p.m.
Committee on Rules and Administration
Business meeting to consider committee
rules and an original resolution au-
thorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee during the 116th Congress.
S–219
1 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To hold closed hearings to examine
worldwide threats.
SH–219
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To hold hearings to examine Department
of Defense enterprise-wide cybersecu-
rity policies and architecture.
SR–222
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine the Con-
gressional Budget Office’s budget and
economic outlook, focusing on fiscal
years 2019–2029.
SD–608
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JA8.031 E23JAPT1
D69
Wednesday, January 23, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S483–S540
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act: Senate began consideration of the motion
to proceed to consideration of S. 1, to make im-
provements to certain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt
the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people.
Pages S483–97
Signing Authority—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that Sen-
ator Murkowski be authorized to sign duly enrolled
bills or joint resolutions, Wednesday, January 23,
2019. Page S490
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Lisa M. Schenck, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Military Commission Review.
Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Virginia, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Virginia.
Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Florida.
Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, of Puerto Rico, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Puer-
to Rico.
Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of International Trade.
Thomas P. Barber, of Florida, to be United States
District Judge for the Middle District of Florida.
Pamela A. Barker, of Ohio, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio.
J. Campbell Barker, of Texas, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
Kenneth D. Bell, of North Carolina, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
North Carolina.
Wendy Williams Berger, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle District of Flor-
ida.
Joseph F. Bianco, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit.
Jean-Paul Boulee, of Georgia, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia.
Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana.
Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle District of Ala-
bama.
Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Nebraska.
James David Cain, Jr., of Louisiana, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Louisiana.
Stephen R. Clark, Sr., of Missouri, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Mis-
souri.
Clifton L. Corker, of Tennessee, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Ten-
nessee.
Daniel Desmond Domenico, of Colorado, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Colo-
rado.
Philip M. Halpern, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
New York.
Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, to be a Judge
of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a
term of fifteen years.
Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of
fifteen years.
Karin J. Immergut, of Oregon, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Oregon.
Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Texas.
Damon Ray Leichty, of Indiana, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of In-
diana.
Thomas Marcelle, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JA9.REC D23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D70 January 23, 2019
Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit.
Corey Landon Maze, of Alabama, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Alabama.
Matthew Walden McFarland, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio.
Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
David Steven Morales, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Texas.
Sarah Daggett Morrison, of Ohio, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio.
Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Carl J. Nichols, of the District of Columbia, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Co-
lumbia.
Howard C. Nielson, Jr., of Utah, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Utah.
Michael H. Park, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit.
J. Nicholas Ranjan, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.
Neomi J. Rao, of the District of Columbia, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the District of Co-
lumbia Circuit.
Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Columbia, to
be a Judge of the United States Court of Inter-
national Trade.
Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Florida.
Allison Jones Rushing, of North Carolina, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit.
Rodney Smith, of Florida, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Michael J. Truncale, of Texas, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
Wendy Vitter, of Louisiana, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
T. Kent Wetherell II, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Florida.
Allen Cothrel Winsor, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Florida.
Joshua Wolson, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania.
Patrick R. Wyrick, of Oklahoma, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Oklahoma.
John Milton Younge, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania. Page S540
Messages from the House: Pages S497–98
Measures Referred: Page S498
Executive Communications: Page S498
Additional Cosponsors: Page S498
Additional Statements: Page S497
Amendments Submitted: Pages S498–S540
Adjournment: Senate convened at 11 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:05 p.m., until 11 a.m. on Thursday,
January 24, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S540.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 27 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 712–738; and 7 resolutions, H. Con.
Res. 6; and H. Res. 67–72 were introduced.
Pages H1170–71
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1172–73
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative DelBene to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H1001
Recess: The House recessed at 11:16 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H1009
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H1010, H1024
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JA9.REC D23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D71
January 23, 2019
Whole Number of the House: The Speaker an-
nounced to the House that, in light of the resigna-
tion of the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr.
Marino, the whole number of the House is 433.
Page H1010
Further Additional Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019: Pursuant to the order of the House of
January 17, 2019, the House resumed consideration
and passed H.J. Res. 28, making further continuing
appropriations for fiscal year 2019, by a yea-and-nay
vote of 229 yeas to 184 nays, Roll No. 46.
Pages H1022–23
Committee Elections: The House agreed to H. Res.
67, electing Members to certain standing commit-
tees of the House of Representatives. Page H1024
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019: The
House passed H.R. 648, making appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, by a yea-
and-nay vote of 234 yeas to 180 nays, Roll No. 49.
Pages H1024–H1159
Rejected the Granger motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Appropriations with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House forthwith
with an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote of 200
yeas to 215 nays, Roll No. 48. Pages H1158–59
H. Res. 61, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 648) and the joint resolution (H.J.
Res. 31) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of 223
yeas to 190 nays, Roll No. 47, after the previous
question was ordered without objection.
Pages H1012–22, H1023–24
Committee Elections: The House agreed to H. Res.
68, electing Members to certain standing commit-
tees of the House of Representatives. Pages H1159–60
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, January 24th. Page H1160
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H1022–23, H1023–24, H1158–59, and
H1159. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:31 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 24, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the United States’ overall role in the
Arctic from a domestic and international perspective, in-
cluding natural resource development and environmental
stewardship, 10 a.m., SD–366.
House
Committee on Armed Services, Full Committee, organiza-
tional meeting, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Full Committee, or-
ganizational meeting, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, organiza-
tional meeting, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, organi-
zational meeting, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Shutdown’s Im-
pact on the Department of Treasury and American Tax-
payers’’, 10:30 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JA9.REC D23JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D72 January 23, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
11 a.m., Thursday, January 24
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will vote on the motions
to invoke cloture on McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment
No. 5, and Schumer Amendment No. 6, both to H.R.
268, Supplemental Appropriations Act, at 2:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Thursday, January 24
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.J. Res. 31—
Making further continuing appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2019.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Banks, Jim, Ind., E78
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E80
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E78, E80
Chabot, Steve, Ohio, E81
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E75
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E78
Costa, Jim, Calif., E76
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E77
Estes, Ron, Kans., E76, E77
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E79
Gooden, Lance, Tex., E76
Granger, Kay, Tex., E75
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E78
Harder, Josh, Calif., E80
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E78
Hoyer, Steny H., Md., E77, E80
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E79
Johnson, Mike, La., E76
Lewis, John, Ga., E81
Loebsack, David, Iowa, E76
McGovern, James P., Mass., E81
Murphy, Stephanie M., Fla., E77
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E81
Pascrell, Bill, Jr., N.J., E76, E79
Pelosi, Nancy, Calif., E75
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E77, E79
Smith, Jason, Mo., E75
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E79
Yoho, Ted S., Fla., E80
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jan 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D23JA9.REC D23JAPT1
