Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8727
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2019 No. 176
House of Representatives
The House met at 8 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mrs. DEMINGS).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
November 5, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable VAL BUT-
LER DEMINGS to act as Speaker pro tempore
on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
Monsignor Stephen J. Rossetti,
Ph.D., D.Min., Catholic University of
America, Washington, D.C., offered the
following prayer:
Good and gracious God, You are the
creator of all. May we see Your face in
all of creation and protect it as Your
sacred gift. Most of all, may we see
Your face in our brothers and sisters
across the globe and across the aisle.
May we love them as You do, and thus,
come to know Your divine and ever-
lasting peace. We pray this in Your
holy name.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 4(a) of House Resolution
656, the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings is approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESIGNATION FROM THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following resigna-
tion from the House of Representa-
tives:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
November 1, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: I write to inform
you that I have notified California Governor
Gavin Newsom of my resignation from the
U.S. House of Representatives, effective No-
vember 3, 2019. I came to Congress as part of
an unprecedented movement—one that
proved the country was ready for a new kind
of leader. As one of the youngest members of
Congress, the first openly LGBTQ woman
elected to Congress from California, and a
first-time candidate with no family back-
ground in wealth or politics who rejected
corporate PAC money to focus on the prior-
ities of individual people, my goal was to
show every constituent that they have a
voice and a place in the halls of power. I
could not be prouder of what we accom-
plished together and what it means for the
future of our country.
Working tirelessly for the people of Cali-
fornia’s 25th Congressional District has been
the honor of my lifetime, and my service to
California and the nation does not end here.
My decision to resign my post is guided by
my commitment to doing the most good for
the most people, no matter how hard it is. As
I turn my attention to other battles for now,
I leave with deep gratitude and commitment
to the success and well-being of my wonder-
ful community and my incredible colleagues,
especially my fellow members of the fresh-
man class who have brought unprecedented
promise, vigor, and vision to Congress. I will
continue to fight for them, for our ideals,
and for a better America for all. I look for-
ward to continuing our important work to-
gether long into the future, wherever the
road may take us.
Sincerely,
KATIE HILL,
Member of Congress.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
November 1, 2019.
Hon. GAVIN NEWSOM,
Governor, State Capitol,
Sacramento, CA.
DEAR GOVERNOR NEWSOM: I write to inform
you that I will resign my seat in the U.S.
House of Representatives, effective Novem-
ber 3, 2019. I came to Congress as part of an
unprecedented movement—one that proved
the country was ready for a new kind of lead-
er. As one of the youngest members of Con-
gress, the first openly LGBTQ woman elected
to Congress from California, and a first-time
candidate with no family background in
wealth or politics who rejected corporate
PAC money to focus on the priorities of indi-
vidual people, my goal was to show every
constituent that they have a voice and a
place in the halls of power. I could not be
prouder of what we accomplished together
and what it means for the future of our coun-
try.
Working tirelessly for the people of Cali-
fornia’s 25th Congressional District has been
the honor of my lifetime, and my service to
California and the nation does not end here.
My decision to resign my post is guided by
my commitment to doing the most good for
the most people, no matter how hard it is. As
I turn my attention to other battles for now,
I leave with deep gratitude and commitment
to the success and well-being of my wonder-
ful community and my incredible colleagues,
especially my fellow members of the fresh-
man class who have brought unprecedented
promise, vigor, and vision to Congress. I will
continue to fight for them, for our ideals,
and for a better America for all. I look for-
ward to continuing our important work to-
gether long into the future, wherever the
road may take us.
Sincerely,
KATIE HILL,
Member of Congress.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
clause 5(d) of rule XX, the Chair an-
nounces to the House that, in light of
the resignation of the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. HILL) the whole
number of the House is 431.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO7.000 H05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8728 November 5, 2019
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 4, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on No-
vember 4, 2019, at 1:35 p.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 2423.
That the Senate passed with an amend-
ment H.R. 3055.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 4(b) of House Resolution
656, the House stands adjourned until 1
p.m. on Friday, November 8, 2019.
Thereupon (at 8 o’clock and 4 min-
utes a.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Friday, Novem-
ber 8, 2019, at 1 p.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2831. A letter from the Counsel, Legal Divi-
sion, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting the Bureau’s final rules —
Consumer Leasing (Regulation M) received
October 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
2832. A letter from the Counsel, Legal Divi-
sion, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting the Bureau’s final rules —
Appraisals for Higher-Priced Mortgage Loans
Exemption Threshold received October 30,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Financial Services.
2833. A letter from the Counsel, Legal Divi-
sion, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting the Bureau’s final rules —
Truth in Lending (Regulation Z) received Oc-
tober 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
2834. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Energy, transmitting the Annual
Report on the Utilization of Federal Tech-
nology for Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017, pursu-
ant to 15 U.S.C. 3710(g)(2); Public Law 96-480,
Sec. 11(g)(2) (as added by Public Law 106-404,
Sec. 10(a)(3)); (114 Stat. 1748); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2835. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Legislation, Regulation and En-
ergy Efficiency, Office of Hearings and Ap-
peals, Department of Energy, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Revisions to
the Office of Hearings and Appeals Proce-
dural Regulations [DOE-OHA-2019-0024] (RIN:
1903-AA10) received October 30, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2836. A letter from the Associate Commis-
sioner for Legislative Affairs, Food and Drug
Administration, transmitting a report titled;
‘‘Drug Shortages: Root Causes and Potential
Solutions’’; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2837. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to Nicaragua that was de-
clared in Executive Order 13851 of November
27, 2018, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
2838. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-
0M, pursuant to the reporting requirements
of Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export
Control Act, as amended; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
2839. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-72,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2840. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-0N,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, as amended; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
2841. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-65,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2842. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for General Law, FEMA, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, transmitting a
notification of a nomination, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112
Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
2843. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel, General Law, Ethics, and Regula-
tion, Department of the Treasury, transmit-
ting a notification of a nomination, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b);
(112 Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
2844. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery;
Closure of the Mid-Atlantic Scallop Access
Area to General Category Individual Fishing
Quota Scallop Vessels [Docket No.: 181210999-
9239-02] (RIN: 0648-XX016) received October
30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
2845. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; North Atlantic Swordfish Fishery
[Docket No.: 120627194-3657-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG606) received October 30, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2846. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; Atlantic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries
[Docket No.: 180117042-8884-02] (RIN: 0648-
XT026) received October 30, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2847. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlan-
tic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries [Docket No.:
180117042-8884-02] (RIN: 0648-XT023) received
October 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2848. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; Shrimp
Fishery off the Southern Atlantic States;
Closure of the Penaeid Shrimp Fishery off
Georgia [Docket No.: 120919470-3513-02] (RIN:
0648-XF965) received October 30, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
2849. A letter from the Chief, Regulatory
Coordination Division, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Adjustment to Premium
Processing Fee [CIS No.: 2649-19; DHS Docket
No.: USCIS-2019-0018] (RIN: 1615-ZB81) re-
ceived October 31, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
2850. A letter from the Acting Adminis-
trator, FEMA, Department of Homeland Se-
curity, transmitting a report advising that
the cost of response and recovery efforts for
FEMA-3422-EM in the State of Georgia has
exceeded the limit for a single emergency
declaration, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5193(b)(3);
Public Law 93-288, Sec. 503(b)(3) (as amended
by Public Law 100-707, Sec. 107(a)); (102 Stat.
4707); to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
2851. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations — Information Reporting for Cer-
tain Life Insurance Contract Transactions
and Modifications to the Transfer for Valu-
able Consideration Rules [TD 9879] (RIN:
1545-BO49) received October 30, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas: Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology. H.R. 4355. A
bill to direct the Director of the National
Science Foundation to support research on
the outputs that may be generated by gen-
erative adversarial networks, otherwise
known as deepfakes, and other comparable
techniques that may be developed in the fu-
ture, and for other purposes; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–268). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05NO7.003 H05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8729
November 5, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas: Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology. H.R. 4372. A
bill to direct Federal science agencies and
the Office of Science and Technology Policy
to undertake activities to improve the qual-
ity of undergraduate STEM education and
enhance the research capacity at the Na-
tion’s HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs, and for other
purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 116–269).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas: Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology. H.R. 4373. A
bill to provide for a coordinated Federal re-
search initiative to ensure continued United
States leadership in engineering biology;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–270). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Ms.
LOFGREN):
H.R. 4978. A bill to provide for individual
rights relating to privacy of personal infor-
mation, to establish privacy and security re-
quirements for covered entities relating to
personal information, and to establish an
agency to be known as the United States
Digital Privacy Agency to enforce such
rights and requirements, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. LUCAS (for himself, Mr.
MCADAMS, Mr. BAIRD, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. CONAWAY, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. NORMAN,
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina, Mr.
COMER, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, and
Mr. WALTZ):
H.R. 4979. A bill to direct the Director of
the National Science Foundation to support
STEM education and workforce development
research focused on rural areas, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself, Mrs. WALORSKI, Ms.
BASS, Mr. WENSTRUP, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. ESTES, Mrs. MURPHY of
Florida, Mr. BACON, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
SUOZZI, and Mr. PANETTA):
H.R. 4980. A bill to assist States, tribes,
territories, counties, and cities in imple-
menting the Family First Prevention Serv-
ices Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. MUR-
PHY of North Carolina, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Ms. FOXX of North
Carolina, Mr. WALKER, Mr. ROUZER,
Mr. HUDSON, Mr. BISHOP of North
Carolina, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, and Mr. BUDD):
H.R. 4981. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
2505 Derita Avenue in Charlotte, North Caro-
lina, as the ‘‘Julius L. Chambers Civil Rights
Memorial Post Office’’; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, and Mr. TONKO):
H.R. 4982. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for treatment
of certain respiratory protective devices as
covered countermeasures for purposes of tar-
geted liability protections for pandemic and
epidemic products and security counter-
measures, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. STANTON,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mrs. LESKO, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. O’HALLERAN, and
Mr. SCHWEIKERT):
H.R. 4983. A bill to designate the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs community-based
outpatient clinic in Gilbert, Arizona, as the
‘‘Staff Sergeant Alexander W. Conrad Vet-
erans Affairs Health Care Clinic’’; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self, Ms. MENG, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. NADLER, and Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 4984. A bill to increase the supply of,
and lower rents for, affordable housing and
to adjust calculations of area median income
for purposes of Federal low-income housing
assistance, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
and Mr. COURTNEY):
H.R. 4985. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to furnish, at the request of an
eligible veteran, nursing home care and hos-
pital care at State licensed or certified resi-
dential care facilities; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois):
H.R. 4986. A bill to authorize appropria-
tions for climate financing, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for her-
self and Mr. HIGGINS of New York):
H.R. 4987. A bill to provide first responders
with planning, training, and equipment capa-
bilities for crude oil-by-rail and ethanol-by-
rail derailment and incident response, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. KIM (for himself, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr.
PASCRELL, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. SHERRILL,
and Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN):
H.R. 4988. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
14 Walnut Street in Bordentown, New Jersey,
as the ‘‘Clara Barton Post Office Building’’;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself
and Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 4989. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Health and Human Services to award a
grant to a health care organization to pro-
mote student access to defibrillation in ele-
mentary and secondary schools, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, and Mr. DUN-
CAN):
H. Res. 679. A resolution expressing support
for designation of November 7 as annual
‘‘Victims of Communism Memorial Day’’; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 4978.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution, which gives Congress the
power ‘‘to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several states, and
with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. LUCAS:
H.R. 4979.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8,
Clause 18:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4980.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States.
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 4981.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause VII
By Mr. BACON:
H.R. 4982.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution, which provides Congress with
the power to ‘‘regulate commerce with for-
eign nations, and among the several states,
and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4983.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 4984.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 4985.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 4986.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3:
To regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes;
By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER:
H.R. 4987.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 4988.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO7.004 H05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8730 November 5, 2019
Article I, Section 8, clause 7 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish post offices
and post roads
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 4989.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘Article 1, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof’’
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 435: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 561: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 737: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1034: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. THOMPSON
of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1042: Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. PINGREE, and
Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 1139: Mr. LUJÁN and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 1171: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1243: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1342: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1379: Ms. HOULAHAN and Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 1516: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1554: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1643: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1871: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 1953: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 2056: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 2062: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.R. 2113: Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 2124: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 2153: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 2201: Mr. COMER, Mr. VELA, and Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 2339: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2350: Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 2579: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 2645: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 2721: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 2816: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 2823: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 2846: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2896: Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr. LEVIN of
California, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. PORTER, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
TLAIB, and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 2905: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2913: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 2986: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 3048: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 3077: Ms. WILD and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3086: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3107: Mr. AMODEI, Mr. MURPHY of
North Carolina, and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 3165: Mr. HARDER of California and Mr.
LOEBSACK.
H.R. 3373: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 3489: Mr. WOMACK.
H.R. 3495: Mr. WALDEN and Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY.
H.R. 3749: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 3757: Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. GUTHRIE, and
Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 3760: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3960: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4104: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 4108: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 4165: Mrs. HAYES and Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 4177: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 4187: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 4248: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 4372: Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 4674: Mr. GALLEGO and Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 4730: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 4754: Mr. WALKER, Ms. SPANBERGER,
and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 4810: Mr. WALDEN and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 4862: Mr. MCCAUL and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4903: Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. SPANO, and
Mr. BUCK.
H.R. 4936: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 4939: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 4943: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 4948: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 4949: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. NADLER.
H. Res. 565: Mr. SMUCKER.
H. Res. 653: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H. Res. 676: Mr. CLOUD and Mr. GOODEN.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
58. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
TX, relative to urging Congress to enact fed-
eral legislation which would require (1) a
simple vote of the full U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives before any impeachment-related
activity may commence; (2) that the target
of formal impeachment proceedings and/or
that target’s legal representatives, be per-
mitted to produce supportive witnesses and
to examine or cross-examine any witness; (3)
that the target of impeachment-related ac-
tivities be allowed representation of legal
counsel; (4) etc..; which was referred to the
Committee on Rules.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO7.006 H05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6365
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2019 No. 176
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, You look down from
Heaven upon humanity’s children,
seeking for those to use for Your glory.
May our lawmakers live with such
faithfulness that they will be Your re-
demptive instruments at a time when
truth seems a rare commodity.
May You find delight in those who by
faith trust You to make the crooked
places straight and the rough places
smooth. Lead our Senators to a fresh
dedication in their service to You and
humanity. Grant that justice will roll
down like waters and righteousness
like a mighty stream.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 30 seconds.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL VETERANS SMALL
BUSINESS WEEK
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
veterans, meaning our veterans of war
or veterans in uniform who have not
been in a war environment, have a big
impact on the American economy.
There are 2.5 million veteran-owned
businesses in the United States that
account for more than $1.1 trillion in
revenue. In Iowa, there are 26,119 vet-
eran-owned businesses that employ
51,801 people and bring in $10.9 million.
Iowa is working hard to attract vet-
erans and help them start and expand
their businesses. I honor these hard-
working entrepreneurs who have served
our country by joining my colleagues
in recognizing this week, the week of
November 4, as National Veterans
Small Business Week.
I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
this week, the Senate will continue its
work in the personnel business and
confirm more of the President’s out-
standing nominees to the Federal judi-
ciary.
Since our Democratic colleagues
chose last week to filibuster defense
funding and block the Senate from
even considering legislation to fund
our Armed Forces, we will turn our
focus to confirmations while we wait
for progress from them on appropria-
tions.
Leading off the week, the Senate will
have the opportunity to confirm an-
other standout Kentuckian to the Fed-
eral bench, this time to the U.S. Court
of Federal Claims.
Judge David Tapp has just about
done it all since he first became a
State judge nearly 15 years ago. He has
heard cases at multiple levels of the
State’s judiciary, ruling on a wide
range of issues. As a volunteer drug
court judge, Judge Tapp has earned na-
tional praise for promoting long-term
recovery in the courtroom. He has also
developed a sterling reputation for
fairness throughout Kentucky and
around the country.
Now David will bring a lifetime of
public service and achievement to the
Court of Federal Claims, where I am
confident he will continue making us
all proud. I look forward to voting to
confirm him later today and hope our
colleagues will join me.
f
DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
now, on another matter, last week the
Nation saw several pivotal moments
that shed light on the current state of
the Democratic Party. Here in the Sen-
ate, as I mentioned, Democrats chose
to filibuster funding for our national
defense for the second time in 2
months. This funding was agreed to in
the bipartisan, bicameral deal that
Speaker PELOSI and the Democratic
leader signed onto just a few months
ago, but now they have walked away
from the agreement they signed and
filibustered funding for our military
commanders.
Yesterday, we saw the Iranian regime
celebrate—celebrate—the 40th anniver-
sary of the taking of the American Em-
bassy and the beginning of the Iranian
hostage crisis. The familiar slogan,
‘‘Death to America,’’ was on full dis-
play. It was especially sobering to
watch this display and remember that
our own U.S. military commanders do
not have the certainty they need for
strategic planning because Democrats
here in Washington found it politically
advantageous to block it.
Over in the House, Speaker PELOSI
continues to stall the U.S.-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement. USMCA would bring
tens of billions in new commerce and
create 176,000 new American jobs, but
House Democrats would rather pursue
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.000 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6366 November 5, 2019
political theater. So American workers
and farmers are still waiting.
However, while our Democratic col-
leagues block these bipartisan prior-
ities, at least they are not shy about
what they do support. We have seen
what Democrats prioritize. We remem-
ber the Green New Deal, an effort to
grab unprecedented control over Amer-
ican families’ daily lives. Designing,
building, or furnishing a home or busi-
ness? Democrats want Washington to
dictate how you do that. Commuting,
traveling for vacation, mowing your
lawn? They would like you to do that
without gasoline or jet fuel sooner
rather than later. Make a living pro-
ducing, refining, or delivering afford-
able American energy? They want you
to find another line of work whether
you like it or not. That is the Green
New Deal.
There is also the matter of Medicare
for None. That is the scheme that
would take the program that millions
of American seniors rely on, throw
away everything except the label, and
paste that onto a new, one-size-fits-all,
Washington-run insurance plan that
would be mandatory for every Amer-
ican. Medicare, gone. Private plans and
the popular Medicare Advantage Pro-
gram, gone. Every health insurance
plan that Americans get on the job,
which over 180 million people depend
on, gone.
This is literally what several of the
leading Democratic Presidential con-
tenders have endorsed—a new nation-
wide experiment in socialism. And
every single American—man, woman,
and child—would be the subject of this
experiment, whether that is what we
want for our families or not. From this
mandatory one-size-fits-all insurance
plan to new price controls that would
limit lifesaving cures, our Democratic
colleagues are rallying around policies
that would leave American families
paying more to wait longer for worse
care. That is their prescription—paying
more to wait longer for worse care.
Then, if these plans weren’t bad
enough on the merits, there is the
small issue of the crushing new tax
burden you would have to pile onto the
U.S. economy in order to make some
effort to pay for all of this. One leading
Democrat released a breathtaking pro-
posal last week that illustrates the
road they would like to head down.
This candidate’s Medicare for None
plan on its own, notwithstanding all
the other socialist plans—just the
healthcare plan—would cost $52 trillion
over the first 10 years alone. That is
the candidate’s own estimate—$52 tril-
lion over 10 years.
Even after cannibalizing everything
the government currently spends on
healthcare, the plan’s author admits
there would still be a staggering $20-
plus trillion left over to finance. Other
experts say it would be more. For some
perspective, if you add up every cent
that is deposited in every commercial
bank across the United States of Amer-
ica, that is about $13 trillion. So you
could literally seize—seize—every dol-
lar that Americans have deposited in
banks and you would have nowhere
near enough money to pay for even the
first decade of this crazy experiment.
Democrats are confident they can
produce this huge sum of money
through historic tax increases on job
creators and on the American people.
It would be an enormous—enormous—
new tax burden dumped on the U.S.
economy that would kill jobs, depress
workers’ wages, and make America less
competitive literally for generations to
come.
At the exact time when Republican
tax reform has made the United States
more competitive and boosted pros-
perity here at home, Democrats want
to take us backward and make our Na-
tion a less attractive place to create
jobs.
Here is what Larry Summers, a
former Treasury Secretary under
President Clinton, wrote about this
far-left plan in the Washington Post:
[It] will discourage hiring, particularly of
low-skilled workers. . . . There is . . . the
real risk of an economic contraction fol-
lowing a sharp market decline.
That is Larry Summers, the Clinton
Treasury Secretary. Particularly, it
would discourage hiring, particularly
of low-skilled workers, and a sharp
market decline. So in order to take
away employer-sponsored insurance
from 180 million Americans, Democrats
want to kill American jobs and bring
the economy to a screeching halt.
Look, I would implore my friends
across the aisle to put aside this de-
structive socialism and join us in the
current work that needs doing right
now for the American people. We have
a landmark trade agreement that needs
passing. We have U.S. Armed Forces
that need funding. We are just waiting
on our Democratic colleagues to show
up.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David Austin
Tapp, of Kentucky, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, let
me begin by echoing what the leader
said earlier about the importance of
passing the Defense appropriations bill.
I just came from a meeting with
members of our Defense Department
where we talked about how important
it is that the appropriations process
moves forward. The Defense authoriza-
tion bill, the broader bill that sets the
priorities for military spending, is also
stalled out here. That is something
that both sides have agreed to for 58
years. It sets out how we are going to
make sure that we take care of our
men and women in uniform and that
they have the equipment, the weap-
onry, and the training they need to do
their jobs and to keep America safe.
The authorization bill is stalled right
now. That is the priority bill.
The appropriations bill, the part that
funds all of that—that, too, has been
blocked last week, most recently by
the Senate Democrats, who filibustered
the Defense appropriations bill.
So both the authorization bill and
the funding bill are now both stalled
out here in the Senate because of ob-
struction and delays by the Senate
Democrats. That is unfortunate for the
men and women in uniform in this
country because in that Defense appro-
priations bill is the largest pay in-
crease in a decade for our men and
women in uniform, not to mention all
of the important priorities that are
funded when it comes to the weapons
systems and the most sophisticated
technology that is necessary, again, to
keep Americans safe both here at home
and around the world.
I can’t emphasize enough how impor-
tant it is for our Democratic colleagues
to come to their senses and conclude
that taking care of America’s military
is job No. 1. If we don’t get national se-
curity right, the rest is conversation.
It really is. All these other things that
we talk about are secondary and pale
in comparison to making sure that we
are taking the steps necessary to pro-
tect Americans, as I said, both here at
home and around the world.
The Defense appropriations bill funds
all of those priorities, all those things
that are important, from pay and bene-
fits for our men and women in uniform
to, again, all the things that are nec-
essary for them when it comes to train-
ing, equipment, and weaponry to do
their jobs and to do them well, to con-
tinue to keep Americans safe both here
at home and around the world, and to
be able to project American power
where necessary in a world that is in-
creasingly dangerous.
I would just urge the Democrats here
in the Senate to allow this appropria-
tions process to move forward. Give us
a vote. Let’s vote on it. Let’s get the
military funded. Every day that goes
by where it is not funded is lost time,
and there are resources that can’t be
put into those important priorities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.002 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6367
November 5, 2019
that are so essential to America’s na-
tional security interests.
We have a filibuster being conducted
by the Senate Democrats. It needs to
be stopped. We need to move forward
with the Defense appropriations bill,
and I hope the Senate Democrats will
come to the conclusion that this is the
right thing to do, not only for the Sen-
ate but, more importantly, for our
country.
FILTER BUBBLE TRANSPARENCY ACT
Madam President, the internet has
brought Americans a host of benefits: a
wealth of information at our fingertips,
unparalleled convenience, new opportu-
nities for education and commerce, and
innumerable new methods of commu-
nication. But I don’t need to tell any-
one that along with the countless bene-
fits of the internet have come a num-
ber of concerns.
One thing that is on the mind of
many consumers is privacy. As the
internet gradually permeates every
area of our lives, internet companies
become the repository for an ever-in-
creasing amount of our personal data
and our personal information, from
what we ate for dinner last night to the
temperature we like to keep in our
house.
As chairman of the Subcommittee on
Communications, Technology, Innova-
tion and the Internet of the Senate
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation Committee, I spent a lot of time
focused on data privacy issues. This
past June, I convened a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Optimizing for Engagement: Un-
derstanding the Use of Persuasive
Technology on Internet Platforms.’’
At that hearing, we heard from a va-
riety of experts about the ways compa-
nies use consumers’ personal data to
determine what individuals see online.
As I said at the time, one reason I de-
cided to hold the hearing was to inform
legislation I was developing that would
require internet platforms to give con-
sumers the option to engage without
having the experience shaped by algo-
rithms that are driven by their user-
specific data.
Last Thursday, I introduced that leg-
islation, called the Filter Bubble
Transparency Act, here in the Senate.
I am proud to have a number of bipar-
tisan cosponsors on this bill. Senator
BLUMENTHAL, Senator MORAN, Senator
BLACKBURN, and Senator WARNER have
all cosponsored this legislation, and I
am grateful for their support.
The Filter Bubble Transparency Act
is designed to address one aspect of the
privacy problem, the issues that arise
from internet companies’ use of con-
sumers’ personal information to shape
what consumers see on their platforms.
Many people are unaware that much of
the content they see on the internet is
determined by sophisticated algo-
rithms and artificial intelligence that
draw on data about each consumer’s
online activity.
For example, a recent Pew Research
Center study found that 53 percent of
U.S. adults don’t understand how
Facebook News Feed works. Many of us
know that Netflix is curating informa-
tion and recommendations specifically
for us based on the movies and the
shows that we watch. They use past be-
havior to project what future behavior
is going to be, and they take all that
information and they aggregate it.
Then, they use that to recommend cer-
tain things that we might want to see.
A lot of us are aware that Amazon is
delivering product recommendations
based on our purchase history. In other
words, when you buy things online, you
see the ads for the types of things that
you buy online. But the reality is that
internet companies have moved far be-
yond just recommending TV shows or
just recommending things that you
might want to purchase. Increasingly,
every aspect of our online experience is
personalized based on the vast amount
of information that companies collect
about us—from our age and occupation
to how many times we visit certain
websites.
The data used by these companies to
make predictions about us comes from
a wide range of sources—from smart
devices like Alexa, Google Assistant,
Ring doorbells, and Nest devices;
scanned emails and documents; data
acquired from third parties, like banks,
credit card processors, and health data
services, among many other sources.
This data is used to make statistical
predictions about how we are going to
behave in the future.
This statistical prediction-making is
happening on a massive scale. For ex-
ample, Facebook has stated that the
artificial intelligence that it uses for
its News Feed can make 6 million pre-
dictions per second. Billions of people
are being fed content on internet plat-
forms that is basically selected for
them by algorithms trying to make
predictions about what will keep each
user engaged on the platform. Clearly,
the powerful mechanisms behind these
platforms, meant to enhance engage-
ment, also have the ability, or at least
the potential, to influence the
thoughts and behaviors, literally, of
billions of people.
That is why there is widespread
unease about the power of these plat-
forms and why it is important for the
public to better understand how these
platforms use the information they col-
lect to make predictions about our be-
havior.
As I said, a significant cause for con-
cern is that most people are not always
aware that the information they see is
being filtered. We are trapped in what
one observer has termed the ‘‘filter
bubble,’’ our own private world of fil-
tered search results and tailored con-
tent, without even knowing that we are
there.
There are real concerns that the
ever-increasing use of filters to shape
our internet experience contributes to
political polarization, social isolation,
and addiction, as well as permitting
companies to manipulate user behav-
ior.
My bill, the Filter Bubble Trans-
parency Act, takes aim at these con-
cerns by requiring major internet plat-
forms to notify consumers that the in-
formation they are seeing has been se-
lected for them using filters based on
their personal data. It would also re-
quire these sites to give consumers the
option of seeing unfiltered results.
Twitter provides a good example of
what the Filter Bubble Transparency
Act will do. Twitter gives consumers
an option to view an unfiltered
timeline through the use of a promi-
nently displayed icon that is easy to
access throughout a user’s time on that
particular platform. Consumers have
the option of viewing the timeline that
Twitter has curated for them, which
pushes the posts that Twitter thinks
they want to see to the top of their
feed or viewing an unfiltered timeline
that features all posts in a chrono-
logical order.
That is the kind of option that my
bill would give the consumers on other
types of social media platforms. Con-
sumers will be able to choose whether
to see an unfiltered social media feed
or search results or whether to view
the curated or personalized content
that the site chooses for them. It would
be an option. We believe this gives con-
sumers more choice and more control.
They would be able to easily switch
back and forth between the two options
whenever they wanted. After all, con-
sumers may want to see the filter-driv-
en content in some cases. I mean, I
would certainly prefer to see Netflix
recommendations that are tailored to
my viewing history, and if you have
1,000 tweets to read, it can be useful to
see the ones that you are most likely
to be interested in at the top of that
feed. But consumers should also have
the option to escape from that filter
bubble and to see information that has
not been selected specifically for them.
I strongly support a light-touch ap-
proach to internet regulation that al-
lows the free market to flourish. The
internet would not have grown the way
that it has had it been weighed down
with heavy-handed government regula-
tions. In order for free markets to work
effectively, consumers need as much
information as possible, including a
better understanding of how internet
platforms use artificial intelligence
and complex filters to shape the infor-
mation that those users see and re-
ceive.
My bill would provide transparency
and consumer control without jeopard-
izing the opportunity and innovation
that we have come to expect from the
tech industry. As internet companies
collect and make use of more and more
of our personal information, it is im-
portant that consumers know how
their data is being used. At an even
more basic level, it is important for
consumers to know that their data is
being used to curate the content they
see.
That is exactly what the Filter Bub-
ble Transparency Act would do—allow
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.003 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6368 November 5, 2019
consumers online to know, one, that
their information is being filtered and
that they are seeing content that is
being curated for them by that par-
ticular social media platform, and,
two, give them an option to see
unfiltered and uncurated content that
would just come to them in normal
chronological order.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues to advance this legislation.
I think it is an important first step in
making sure that consumers know
more about their information as it is
being collected and how it is being used
by internet companies. I will continue
to work as we try to deal with this
broader debate on data privacy, which
is so important in the online world in
which we live.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
LEGISLATION
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I re-
turn to the floor again this week to
discuss Congress’s progress on impor-
tant legislation—or, rather, the lack of
it—since the obsession with impeach-
ing the President began.
When the House decided to proceed
full steam ahead on impeachment, they
promised that it wouldn’t interfere
with our ability to get other important
work done for our constituents. While
it has been less than a week since the
House formally authorized their im-
peachment inquiry, the crusade to im-
peach the President and remove him
started nearly 3 years ago.
For example, on January 20, which
was actually Inauguration Day, 2017, at
12:19 p.m. the Washington Post ran the
story with the headline ‘‘The Campaign
to Impeach President Trump Has
Begun.’’ That was on Inauguration Day
in 2017. Nineteen minutes into his Pres-
idency, the writing wasn’t only on the
wall. It was on the front page of the
Washington Post.
Our Democratic friends are on a ka-
mikaze mission to get President Trump
out of office less than a year before the
next election, and, in the process, they
are preventing Congress from solving
the big problems facing the American
people.
The latest casualty of this impeach-
at-all-costs strategy is a bill I intro-
duced with my Democratic colleague
from Connecticut, RICHARD
BLUMENTHAL, called the Affordable
Prescriptions for Patients Act. This
legislation would lower the cost of
Americans’ prescription medication
and save more than a half billion dol-
lars in taxpayer money.
Here, in the Senate, it counts the
Democratic whip, Senator DURBIN from
Illinois, as well as the Assistant Demo-
cratic Leader, Senator MURRAY from
Washington State, as cosponsors. With
that kind of lineup, you would think
this would be a no-brainer. Unfortu-
nately, drug pricing legislation isn’t
the only consensus effort that has got-
ten caught up in impeachment mania.
For a quarter of a century, the Vio-
lence Against Women Act has provided
resources to assist women who are vic-
tims of domestic violence and sexual
assault. Unsurprisingly, this program
has consistently maintained broad bi-
partisan support. There is agreement
that we must do more to provide serv-
ices and protection for victims of do-
mestic violence and sexual assault, but
it is safe to say that there are disagree-
ments on how best to accomplish that
goal.
Those differences in opinion came to
a head in February of this year. We
were fresh off the heels of the longest
government shutdown in history and
working to fund the government
through the remainder of the year, but
our Democratic colleagues threw a
curve ball when they insisted that we
should not include a temporary exten-
sion of the Violence Against Women
Act, which had expired in September of
2018.
Even amid the political jockeying we
have been seeing in this Congress, this
was a shocking omission. Republicans
were in favor of a short-term reauthor-
ization of the Violence Against Women
Act to provide time and space for bi-
partisan negotiations for a long-term
reauthorization. Surprisingly, our
Democratic colleagues in the House
blocked this reauthorization of the Vi-
olence Against Women Act. So it ex-
pired.
Fortunately, though, our friends on
the Appropriations Committee have
continued to fully fund these programs,
but the authorizing statute has expired
because of this gamesmanship. Despite
continued bipartisan negotiations led
by the Senator from Iowa, Ms. ERNST,
over the last 8 months, we haven’t been
able to come up with a consensus
agreement to reauthorize the program
on a long-term basis.
This has been an 8-month negotia-
tion. This isn’t all that complicated.
We should be able to do it in the space
of an afternoon, but, clearly, there is
no desire to get this resolved.
Reauthorizing the Violence Against
Women Act is a top priority for Mem-
bers on both sides of the aisle, and I
hope we will work harder to make it
happen rather than to use this impor-
tant law to play partisan political
games. Sadly, the Violence Against
Women Act is not the only program to
get caught up in the political cross-
hairs.
The Debbie Smith Act, another tradi-
tionally bipartisan bill here in the Sen-
ate, expired at the end of September
because of the refusal of the House to
take up the Senate-passed version and
to send it to the President.
The Debbie Smith Act, you will re-
call, provides funding to State and
local crime labs to test DNA evidence
and reduce the rape kit backlog. The
Senate unanimously passed the bill in
May to reauthorize this program, but
the House simply refused to act. At a
roundtable I held in Houston, a few
months ago, I heard from rape victims
and their advocates about how trou-
bling and, frankly, how insulting all of
this was.
After months, the House has now fi-
nally relented and voted to reauthorize
the Debbie Smith Act, after the pres-
sure on them became unbearable. I am
glad they changed their minds, and I
am hopeful we can get this bill to the
President’s desk soon. Although I
would have welcomed less drama this
time around, the Debbie Smith Act re-
authorization will hopefully be an ex-
ample of what Congress can accomplish
when you put partisan political fights
aside and work for our constituents; in
other words, do the job we were elected
to do when our constituents sent us
here.
It is really disappointing that some
of our colleagues on the other side of
the aisle would rather relitigate the
2016 election—again, less than a year
before the next election—rather than
do the work of the American people.
This obsession with impeachment
mania has consumed our Democratic
colleagues and is preventing us from
getting work done on a nonpartisan
basis. That is what our constituents
want us to do.
Texans are worried about high pre-
scription costs, worried about the state
of our roads and bridges, and worried
about our national security. In the
case of the Democratic leader, I would
be willing to wager that New Yorkers
are worried about many of these issues
too. So it is time to stop the partisan
games. They don’t result in pay raises
for our troops, which have now been
voted against two times by our Demo-
cratic colleagues. They don’t advance
victims’ rights and give justice to sur-
vivors like the reauthorization of the
Debbie Smith Act and the Violence
Against Women Act would do. They
don’t increase the public’s trust in our
institutions of government and assure
them that we really have their best in-
terests at heart. Definitely, these
games don’t help make Americans’
lives better.
We have heard our Democratic col-
leagues say ad nauseam that impeach-
ment will not interfere with their abil-
ity to legislate, but the evidence sug-
gests otherwise. What Americans want
is action. What Americans want is for
us to do our job. We can give them
what they want by allowing legislation
we know has a chance of becoming law,
such as my drug pricing bill, the
Debbie Smith Act, and the Violence
Against Women Act, to come to the
floor, get passed, and sent to the Presi-
dent. That would be doing our jobs, and
I believe that is what our constituents
want from each of us—not this single-
minded obsession with impeachment
that started the day the President was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.005 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6369
November 5, 2019
sworn into office, less than 1 year be-
fore the next election.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Ms. ERNST. Madam President, before
I begin my remarks today, I do want to
thank the senior Senator from Texas
for his remarks on the Violence
Against Women Act and the Debbie
Smith Act. I think it is vitally impor-
tant that both of these acts are reau-
thorized this year and the sooner the
better so our advocates can get their
work done. Thank you very much for
those remarks.
DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS
Madam President, last week we saw
our Democratic colleagues once again
playing politics ahead of the defense of
our great Nation. They are putting
their actions ahead of the support that
we need to give to those who defend
our Nation. For the second time this
year, as has already been stated today,
Senate Democrats have blocked fund-
ing for our servicemembers. The kick-
er, folks, is that the vote they blocked
was one that would have simply al-
lowed us to debate the issue. It sounds
unbelievable even while saying it now,
folks, but it is the sad reality of where
we are today.
What message does it send to our
men and women in uniform when every
single Senator of the Democratic Party
votes against providing the funding our
troops need for training, for new de-
fense programs critical to our national
defense strategy, for the largest mili-
tary pay raise in 10 years—which our
troops more than deserve after nearly
two decades of fighting for their coun-
try.
When I was deployed to Kuwait and
Iraq in the early days of the war on ter-
ror, the most important thing was not
only to ensure my soldiers and I had
the right training and equipment to
carry out our missions but knowing,
without a doubt, that the American
people and the policymakers of govern-
ment who sent us to war stood behind
us and supported us every step of the
way. It was placing faith in our coun-
try’s leadership to make the sound de-
cisions to effectively employ military
force and to have the will, the resolve,
and the tenacity to make tough deci-
sions without regard to politics.
The decision of the Democrats last
week to not even open debate on what
our troops need to fight and win is so
sorely disappointing. What will it take
in order to get our servicemembers at
home and abroad the resources they
need? Will we really deprive our troops
of critical training opportunities to
hone their readiness in the most dan-
gerous strategic environment since the
end of the Cold War?
Will we actively aid our enemies by
failing to fund those things which we
have identified as critical to maintain-
ing an edge against our adversaries? It
is absolutely unacceptable that Demo-
crats would even entertain these possi-
bilities.
If they want to have a debate, then
let’s have a debate, but to say they
support the troops and then obstruct
the ability to discuss in this Chamber
what our servicemembers need doesn’t
even add up.
That is why I am on the floor today
to call upon all of my colleagues who
sank the prospects of defense funding
to come down and do the job that all of
us were sworn to do when we took our
oath of office. It is time to give our
troops what they need to do their jobs,
and it is time to stop running this gov-
ernment through wasteful continuing
resolutions in an increasingly dan-
gerous world.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 2486
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, we need
to pass the FUTURE Act to help stu-
dents in historically Black colleges and
universities, minority-serving institu-
tions, and we need to do that now.
I am here to advocate on behalf of
Maryland’s four HBCUs that face a
funding cliff due to congressional inac-
tion. Without the immediate passage of
the FUTURE Act, Bowie State Univer-
sity, Coppin State University, Morgan
State University, and the University of
Maryland Eastern Shore face a collec-
tive $4.2 million funding shortfall now
that the Higher Education Act’s au-
thorization for mandatory funding for
these institutions lapsed October 1 of
this year.
This clean, bipartisan, and paid-for 2-
year authorization gives breathing
room to continue to negotiate the full
reauthorization of the Higher Edu-
cation Act without holding these his-
torically underfunded institutions hos-
tage.
Our HBCUs and MSIs know they can
count on this mandatory funding each
year to strengthen their course offer-
ings and in-demand STEM programs,
make infrastructure improvements,
and provide academic counseling and
student support services to first-gen-
eration and historically underrep-
resented students.
Throwing the budgets of these insti-
tutions into chaos directly harms their
ability to serve their students and
communities. Institutions would have
to make decisions about potentially re-
ducing levels of academic services, de-
laying needed infrastructure invest-
ments, and make longstanding staffing
decisions. These decisions are being
made all across the country at schools
of each of our States. Collectively, the
MSIs risk losing out on $255 million in
mandatory funding. This is an unneces-
sary obstacle our HBCUs and MSIs do
not need to face. We have a paid-for
available for us today to address this
issue.
We can get this done now. The House
is prepared to accept this 2-year exten-
sion, which gives us a chance to nego-
tiate a complete reauthorization of the
Higher Education Act but does not
hold these institutions hostage with
the mandatory funding that is provided
by law.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate proceed to the im-
mediate consideration of Calendar No.
212, H.R. 2486; that the Murray amend-
ment at the desk be agreed to; that the
bill, as amended, be considered read a
third time and passed; and that the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, re-
serving the right to object.
I thank the distinguished Senator
from Maryland for giving me this op-
portunity to present the right way to
help historically Black colleges and
universities, and I intend to do that
when he is finished speaking about this
and explain what we can do together.
Unfortunately, the bill he proposes is
a shortcut the House took, which has
no way to pass the Senate. It is based
upon a budget gimmick and uses a
method of funding that many Senators
object to. It creates a new funding cliff
within 23 months, and it is unnecessary
because the Secretary of Education has
written all of the heads of historically
Black colleges and universities to say
that there are sufficient funds until
next September so there is no funding
problem.
This gives me an opportunity—which
I will do in a just a moment—to sug-
gest the right way to do it. The right
way to do it is to do permanent funding
of historically Black colleges and uni-
versities in a package of bills I have in-
troduced. That package includes other
legislation—which I will discuss when
my time comes—which include simpli-
fying the FAFSA.
It is a bill Senator JONES and I have
introduced which will help 20 million
families, including almost every stu-
dent at a historically Black college or
minority-serving institution. The bill
package also includes grants for pris-
oners and short-term Pell grants, and
it simplifies the student aid letters.
This package is ready. It includes
short-term Pell grants, as I mentioned.
This package has been put together by
a number of Democratic and Repub-
lican Senators. It is ready to pass the
Senate and ready for the President to
sign it. It permanently funds Black col-
leges and universities instead of this
shortcut.
In a moment, I will talk more about
that, but in the meantime, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Maryland.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.006 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6370 November 5, 2019
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I greatly
respect the chairman of the com-
mittee. I know of his sincerity in deal-
ing with higher education and edu-
cation in our country, but the issue is
pretty simple. Without the continu-
ation of mandatory funding as provided
by current law, historically Black col-
leges and universities and minority-
serving institutions cannot rely upon
the funding source the chairman is
talking about. There are going to be
tough decisions that have to be made
on infrastructure improvements, tough
decisions on staffing, and there is no
need for it.
We all agree that mandatory funding
should continue. I am all for perma-
nent extension. This UC will give us
the 2-year window to make sure we
pass the Higher Education Act reau-
thorization to fund that.
The issues the chairman is going to
talk about are all matters that are
under discussion and debate that have
to be worked out between the members
of his committee, the floor, and rec-
onciliation between the House and the
Senate. In the meantime, historically
Black colleges and universities and mi-
nority-serving institutions will suffer.
I fully support what the chairman is
trying to do getting matters accom-
plished, but if I understand the unani-
mous consent he will be asking for, it
doesn’t deal with all the issues that
need to be dealt with. We have to fully
address the challenges students face
with college access, affordability, ac-
countability, and campus safety. The
chairman’s bill does not meet that test
and limits what we could do in the fu-
ture to meaningfully address the cost
of attending and succeeding in col-
leges. The bill continues to let the re-
alities of getting a college degree—the
challenges of childcare, housing, food,
textbooks—go unaddressed for our
country’s growing diversity of stu-
dents, including student veterans, stu-
dents with disabilities, students of
color, and students of low-income fami-
lies or those who are the first in their
families to attend college.
I agree with the chairman. Let’s
bring the Higher Education Act for-
ward and debate it but don’t hold these
institutions that have historically been
discriminated against hostage to a pro-
gram we all agree needs to be contin-
ued.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
why would we hold hostage bipartisan
legislation that would simplify the
FAFSA from 108 questions to 18 to 30—
the Federal aid that 20 million families
fill out every year in this country—un-
necessarily? Why are we holding that
hostage? Why are we holding hostage
the legislation introduced by Senator
PORTMAN and Senator KAINE and co-
sponsored by CARDIN, GILLIBRAND, HAS-
SAN, KLOBUCHAR, STABENOW, BALDWIN,
BROWN—these are all Democrats—here
is a Republican, CAPITO, COONS, ERNST,
JONES, MORAN, SHAHEEN, SINEMA,
SMITH, WICKER, and BRAUN.
This is legislation we all agree on—or
at least that many agree on—on short-
term Pell grants. Then we have Sen-
ators GRASSLEY, SMITH, CASSIDY,
ERNST, HASSAN, JONES, KLOBUCHAR,
MANCHIN, and RUBIO, who would like to
simplify the Federal aid letters so you
don’t get a letter in the mail, if you are
living in Maryland or Tennessee, and
think you have a grant you don’t have
to pay back, when in fact it is a loan
you do have to pay back.
We also agree on increasing the max-
imum Pell grant. We also agree on how
to pay for it. We also agree on perma-
nent funding for the historically Black
colleges and institutions in a way that
the Budget Committee can easily ap-
prove, and it can pass the Senate.
If we can agree on all that and it all
helps students at historically Black
colleges and minority-serving institu-
tions, then why don’t we pass it? Why
don’t we do that? Why do we come up
with a short-term, gimmick-supported,
House-passed bill that sets up a new
cliff? Why don’t we take a permanent
funding, with a Budget Committee-ap-
proved way of paying for it, and do
some other things that we have been
working on for 5 years in a bipartisan
way? This is not an Alexander pro-
posal. This is a package of proposals by
29 Senators—17 Democrats and 12 Re-
publicans. It is ready to pass the Sen-
ate; it is ready to be worked on with
the House of Representatives; and it is
ready to be signed by the President of
the United States.
Let me add to this. The Secretary of
Education, and people seem to ignore
this, has written all the presidents of
the historically Black colleges and said
there is enough money in the bank to
pay for all their funding until next
September. So we have nearly a year to
do this the right way instead of the
wrong way. We are not on vacation. I
know everybody is talking about im-
peachment, but we have lots of stu-
dents around this country who would
like to have a simpler way to go to col-
lege. We have lots of historically Black
institutions and minority-serving in-
stitutions that would like to have a
permanent method of funding. We have
lots of employers and potential em-
ployees who want a short-term Pell
grant.
Simplifying FAFSA would actually
add, according to the Congressional
Budget Office, 250,000 Pell grants, and
it would increase the number of Ameri-
cans who are eligible for the maximum
Pell grant. All that is ready to go. All
that is ready to go so why don’t we do
that instead?
I thank the Senator from Maryland
for giving me an opportunity and a rea-
son to bring up my package of bills
with permanent funding of the histori-
cally Black colleges and universities
paid for, not by a gimmick, but by a
Budget Committee-approved method
that President Trump and President
Obama both had in their budgets.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2557
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 2557—that is my bill—and that the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration. I ask unanimous consent
that the bill providing permanent fund-
ing for historically Black colleges and
universities and other matters be con-
sidered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, in re-
serving the right to object and for the
reasons I have already stated, there
will be ample time to bring up the per-
manent reauthorization of the funding
for historically Black colleges and uni-
versities and minority institutions.
That is why the unanimous consent for
which I asked was for 2 years.
My party doesn’t control the activi-
ties on the floor of the Senate. This re-
authorization bill is going to take
some time on the floor. We are going to
have to deal with amendments, and we
are going to have to reconcile the dif-
ferences between the House and the
Senate. There is no other category of
expenditures that is mandatory of this
nature to underserved and historically
discriminated institutions that is being
held hostage as we debate a broader
bill. I think this is a truly unique cir-
cumstance and should not be held hos-
tage.
We need to have a way of debating
the issues to make sure that in a reau-
thorization that occurs only every so
often within the Higher Education Act
that we deal with the current gaps we
have for diversity—for students with
disabilities, for students of color, for
students from low-income families, and
for those who are the first in their fam-
ilies to attend college.
For those reasons, I object to the re-
quest.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, we
have been working for 5 years, for ex-
ample, on simplifying the Federal aid
form that students fill out to go to col-
lege—5 years. We have bipartisan sup-
port for it in the Senate and in the
House. We have families who, in my
State, will be discouraged from going
to college because of this complex
form.
Why don’t we pass it? It is important
to fund historically Black colleges;
that is true. They have funding for an-
other year. So why don’t we add to
that the simplifying of the FAFSA
form, which, I would imagine, 95 per-
cent of the students in historically
Black colleges have to fill out every
year? In addition to that, they have
this verification process that they go
through during which somebody
catches them telling the IRS one thing
and the Department of Education an-
other so that they jerk their aid. They
think that is important.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.008 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6371
November 5, 2019
I have the president of a community
college in Memphis who tells me he
loses 1,500 students a year because of
the burdensome nature of the applica-
tion.
Former Governor Bill Haslam, of
Tennessee—our State—has the highest
percentage of students who fill out the
FAFSA, which is the Federal aid form
for grants and loans. He says the single
biggest impediment toward there being
free tuition for 2 years of college in our
State is the complex FAFSA.
I don’t think it is unreasonable to
say, while we help students at histori-
cally Black colleges, that we help those
same students by simplifying their
FAFSAs. Why don’t we give them the
short-term Pell grant that Senator
KAINE and Senator PORTMAN and a
dozen other Senators, including the
Senator from Maryland, have intro-
duced? Why don’t we increase the size
of the Pell grant in a way that we
agree in a bipartisan way?
In other words, we don’t have to dis-
cuss something until we find some-
thing we can’t agree on. Why don’t we
take the things we do agree on, which
are considered in the package that the
Senator just objected to, and pass
them?
There are 29 Senators—more Demo-
crats than Republicans—who have
formed these bills. If we can add to
that other pieces of legislation, let’s do
it. Yet let’s take the permanent fund-
ing for historically Black colleges—the
simplification of the FAFSA, the
short-term Pell grants, and the Pell
grants for prisoners—and pass that.
As I said, we are not on vacation. We
should be able to do this in the next
few weeks or in the next few months. I
mean, how long does it take just to
pass something we already agree on? It
shouldn’t take us very long.
I am disappointed that the Senator
has objected. I hope to keep coming to
the floor and asking for the Senate to
approve it. More importantly, I hope to
keep working with the distinguished
Senator from Washington State on our
Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions. We have often
been able to work these matters out
even when they are contentious and of-
fered to the Senate a bipartisan pack-
age. I hope we can do that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL JEFF BURTON
Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, I wish
to congratulate MG Jeff Burton, a man
of remarkable achievement and char-
acter, on a career dedicated to public
service. After 7 years of serving as the
adjutant general of the Utah National
Guard, Major General Burton leaves
behind a distinguished legacy.
The Utah National Guard provides
military forces that are ready to assist
both State and Federal authorities in
times of emergency and in times of
war. It is comprised of 7,300 soldiers
and airmen from the Utah Army Na-
tional Guard and the Utah Air National
Guard.
As adjutant general, Major General
Burton oversaw the training and mili-
tary preparation of soldiers and airmen
throughout the State. He is a prin-
cipled and dedicated leader who has set
a high standard of conduct for the men
and women under his command.
Major General Burton and his wife,
Charn, have always cared for and sup-
ported Guard members and their fami-
lies, particularly in the tragic times of
loss. Their devotion to the servicemen
and servicewomen of Utah cannot be
overstated.
Major General Burton’s life of service
extends beyond his time as adjutant
general. He was an assistant professor
at both Brigham Young University and
Utah Valley University, where he
taught military science.
He was awarded the Bronze Star for
his exceptionally meritorious service
as the commander of the 1457th Engi-
neer Combat Battalion during Oper-
ation Iraqi Freedom, during which his
unit played a significant role in the
initial ground war. Under his leader-
ship, his unit also helped to rebuild the
country after its having been dev-
astated by conflict.
Our great State of Utah owes Major
General Burton a debt of gratitude for
his decades of service. We wish the hon-
orable general all the best in his next
chapter.
Thank you, Major General Burton,
for your service to our State and to our
Nation.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
week, the House of Representatives
voted in favor of a set of procedures to
govern its impeachment inquiry, lay-
ing out a formal process to examine
the facts in a deliberate and fairminded
process.
Our Republican colleagues keep
changing their arguments as to why
they are opposed to what the House is
doing. First, there needed to be a vote.
There was a vote. Second, make it pub-
lic. Now it is public. Third, there is no
quid pro quo. Now there is a quid pro
quo, they even admit.
So now they are saying it is not im-
peachable. The shifting stands of the
Republicans’ argument in the House
and Senate, which seems to shift all
the time, indicates they don’t seem to
have a real interest in following the
facts to where they lead but rather just
defending Trump, regardless of the
facts. That is a huge mistake for the
Republic and for the Senate and how
we should conduct ourselves.
So let me elaborate. For weeks, con-
gressional Republicans criticized House
Democrats for not scheduling a vote.
As soon as the vote was taken, the
same Republicans criticized the proc-
ess once again.
Republicans criticized House Demo-
crats for conducting classified hear-
ings, even though the material dis-
cussed concerns our national security
and Republicans readily participated in
those hearings. Then once the House
voted on the plan for open hearings,
predictably, the same Republicans kept
criticizing the process, coming up with
a new argument: The idea that there
was no ‘‘quid pro quo,’’ which the
President himself stated, although he
was contradicted by Mr. Mulvaney, and
that seemed to be the linchpin of their
defense of the President in the last few
days and weeks.
But now, all of the sudden, knowing
maybe what is coming out, all of the
sudden, our Republican colleagues are
saying: Yes, there was a quid pro quo,
but it doesn’t matter. It is not im-
peachable. Some of them even think it
is not even wrong, which is absolutely
absurd.
So instead of the shifting sands of de-
fenses of the President on a near daily
basis, my Republican friends should let
all the facts come out and make their
judgments based on the facts. Instead
of changing their argument every third
day when faced with new facts, they
should remain dispassionate and say
we are going to look at the facts, in-
stead of just jumping to find a new de-
fense of the President no matter what
the facts.
If you are defending the President be-
cause there is no quid pro quo and
there is quid pro quo, maybe you
should be saying: Maybe something is
going on here. But, no, a new argument
pops up.
The investigation is not yet com-
plete. Jumping to conclusions before
all the facts come out is misguided. It
is unbefitting of a Senator’s role as
judge and juror of a potential impeach-
ment case.
Now, last night, the President held a
political rally in Kentucky with sev-
eral Republican elected officials, in-
cluding the junior Senator from Ken-
tucky who publicly and explicitly
urged the media to expose the identity
of the Federal whistleblower. The
President, of course, quickly praised
the Senator’s idea.
I cannot stress just how wrong this
is. We have Federal whistleblower laws
designed to protect the identity and
safety of patriotic Americans who
come forward to stand up for the Con-
stitution. There are Members on the
other side of the aisle, including senior
Members and chairs of committees,
who spent their entire careers defend-
ing whistleblowers and the laws that
protect them and their families.
So where are they now? I was pleased
to hear that my colleague, Senator
THUNE, spoke out and said that whis-
tleblowers must be protected. I believe
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.009 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6372 November 5, 2019
that Senator GRASSLEY is saying the
same. They are both right. But there
should be bipartisan outrage at the
public attempts by the President and a
Member of this body to expose the
identity of a Federal whistleblower.
You do not get to determine when our
whistleblower laws apply or do not or
whether you like what the whistle-
blower said or you do not. They are
laws. This whistleblower, whose com-
plaint was deemed ‘‘credible’’ and an
‘‘urgent matter’’ by a Trump ap-
pointee, is protected by these statutes.
Every single Member of this body
should stand up and say that it is
wrong to disclose his or her identity.
Our rhetoric can sometimes be over-
heated, but I am appalled by these de-
velopments. There is no other word for
it. We are in a moment of history when
the Republicans, over only a few
weeks, have shifted from saying that
no laws were broken to saying that
laws were broken, but it is not im-
peachable, to outright advocating that
laws be broken.
Where is the internal gyroscope, the
clock of decency and honor on the
other side? They are twisting them-
selves in contradictory pretzels to de-
fend this President who is going to
bounds that we have rarely seen in this
body with any party with any Presi-
dent.
I don’t understand what sort of effect
President Trump has on people of in-
tegrity and some degree of strength,
who just fold whenever he says some-
thing, twist their arguments, change
their arguments, do 180-degree hairpins
about their arguments, all because
they are afraid of telling the truth to
power, the truth to this President who
never likes to hear it.
GUN LEGISLATION
Mr. President, on guns, on August 5,
days after mass shootings in El Paso
and Dayton, President Trump declared
that ‘‘we cannot let those killed in El
Paso, Texas, and Dayton, Ohio, die in
vain.’’ He said, ‘‘Republicans and
Democrats must come together and get
strong background checks.’’
Those were the words of President
Trump. A few weeks later, Leader
MCCONNELL promised that a debate on
background checks would be ‘‘front and
center’’ in the Senate after the summer
work period. These were Leader
MCCONNELL’s words. He said, ‘‘What we
can’t do is fail to pass something,’’ he
said.
Well, it has been 3 months since
those statements. Leader MCCONNELL’s
Senate has not only failed to pass
them, it has not even debated some of
them. And then on Friday, the Wash-
ington Post released a story that all
but confirms the worst fear of families
torn apart by guns violence—the head-
line of the Washington Post: ‘‘Trump
abandons proposing ideas to curb gun
violence, after saying he would, fol-
lowing mass shootings.’’
According to the Washington Post,
the President has abandoned his brief
flirtation with supporting expanded
background checks because his advis-
ers believe it will hurt his chances of
reelection, ‘‘a reversal from the sum-
mer when the President insisted he
would offer policies to curb firearm
deaths.’’
Maybe it is not surprising with this
President—it isn’t unfortunately; he
goes back on his word day after day—
but it is profoundly disappointing.
Democrats, despite our skepticism,
tried to work in good faith with our
Republican colleagues to respond to
the tragedies in El Paso and Dayton.
Many of my colleagues, Senator MUR-
PHY and Senator MANCHIN and others,
worked with Republican Senators and
ferried back and forth to the White
House to find a proposal that could be-
come law that would save American
lives. We gave the White House every
chance to get to ‘‘yes.’’
But despite those efforts, Leader
MCCONNELL has not moved even one
gun safety bill to the floor, and Presi-
dent Trump is opposing votes on any—
any—potential compromise, just like
on infrastructure, just like on immi-
gration reform, just like on a myriad of
other issues, President Trump would
rather do nothing to help the American
people because it would upset political
allies like the NRA.
He will make bold and sometimes
surprising promises in the heat of the
moment. When there was a huge pres-
sure to do something about background
checks because of the shootings across
the country, he said he would, but then
this man who tries to portray himself
as a tough guy backs off when lobby-
ists say he can’t do it. That doesn’t
show strength. It shows weakness and
shows a lack of candor and honesty to
the American people. It shows he is
using the American people for his own
political purposes, which he does over
and over again.
Only time will tell how many lives it
will take before President Trump and
the congressional Republicans come to
their senses and work with us to fi-
nally do something about the epidemic
of gun violence in America.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Now, climate—yesterday, the Trump
administration formally sent a notice
to the UN that the United States will
withdraw from the Paris Agreement in
2020. In the long list of dangerous pol-
icy decisions that President Trump has
advanced over the years, this ranks as
one of the very, very worst.
Future generations will look back on
this decision as a dramatic step back-
ward in the fight to address climate
change. Future generations would note
this date and how it hurt our planet,
our economy, and our national security
in the decades that followed.
President Trump has been an enemy
of climate science in ways that no
other President has been. Before be-
coming President, he called climate
change a hoax, and unfortunately, his
Presidency has treated it like one. He
has stuffed his administration to the
brim with lobbyists for Big Oil and Big
Coal; he has crippled the Federal Gov-
ernment’s ability to research climate
change. He rolled back emission stand-
ards and used fake science to under-
report the effects of climate change.
Instead of protecting the interests of
the people, President Trump has ca-
tered shamelessly to the interests of
oil companies and corporate polluters.
History will look harshly on President
Trump’s failure to lead the United
States through our planet’s climate
crisis, and they will equally look on
the Republican Senators who have just
stood mute as he has done this.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to talk about
the U.S. relationship with Turkey and
certain actions that the U.S. must con-
sider in order to protect our national
security interests and those of our true
allies in the region.
Today, more than ever, we need
strong allies and partners in Europe.
As the Trump administration does
nearly everything in its power to erode
our alliances and denigrate our closest
friends, we find increasingly
emboldened regimes in Russia and
China. The U.S. cannot stand up to
them alone. Throughout the Cold War,
our diplomats worked assiduously to
build strong bonds with allies, knowing
that having close partners was better
than having enemies on the world
stage.
Our strongest allies should be those
in NATO, those that have made a trea-
ty commitment to mutual defense,
those who share our values, those who
work in concert with us to face the
threat from countries like Russia and
Iran with common cause. Unfortu-
nately, Turkey under Erdogan em-
bodies none of those things. Today, I
would like to lay out a fact pattern
that so many of my colleagues have
come to see in recent weeks, that Tur-
key under Erdogan should not, Turkey
under Erdogan cannot be seen as an
ally.
How many more times do we need to
see Turkey betray the values upon
which NATO was established? How
many more times do we need to see
President Erdogan visit Moscow, Sochi,
or any other Russian city to kiss
Putin’s ring? How many more journal-
ists need to be locked up by Erdogan
before we stop calling Turkey a democ-
racy?
Enough is enough. Over my 27 years
in the House and the Senate, I have fol-
lowed developments in the Eastern
Mediterranean quite closely. Turkey’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.011 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6373
November 5, 2019
invasion of Cyprus in 1974 was a shock-
ing attempt to redraw borders in Eu-
rope in the wake of World War II. To
this day, Turkey’s invasion of northern
Cyprus must be see for what it is: an il-
legal occupation that must end. Tur-
key’s action over those days in 1974
were not the actions of a democratic
country. They were not the actions of a
reliable ally. They were not the actions
of a responsible actor on the world
stage.
But the events of 1974 would only
presage Turkey’s aggressive posture in
the eastern Mediterranean in the years
to come. To this day, Turkey under
Erdogan continues to aggressively
bully international energy companies,
including U.S. companies, and the Re-
public of Cyprus. Their sin? Conducting
completely legitimate exploration in
the Cypriot Exclusive Economic Zone.
This is not territory under dispute or
an issue for debate. Turkey’s hostility
towards these companies is the kind of
gunboat diplomacy that belongs to eras
past and has no place in today’s world.
Examples abound where Turkey con-
tinues to operate in bad faith when it
comes to Cyprus. It could abide by UN
Security Council resolutions to trans-
fer the fenced area of Varosha,
Farmagusta to the administration of
the United Nations.
These calls to return this area to its
original inhabitants, whom Turkey
ejected during the 1974 invasion, have
gone unheeded. Instead, several Turk-
ish Ministers have recently visited and
threatened to move forward with com-
mercial development—a true affront to
those forced from their land more than
40 years ago, as well as to the U.N. Se-
curity Council resolution.
In the eastern Mediterranean, for
years Turkey has also aggressively vio-
lated the airspace of neighboring
Greece, also a NATO ally. These dan-
gerous maneuvers have threatened the
lives and safety of Greek pilots, as well
as civilians living on the islands below.
Greece wants a good neighbor in Tur-
key and has sought to find common
ground upon a constructive relation-
ship. But with these airspace viola-
tions, Turkey has shown its true col-
ors, and the international community
must come to terms with this.
We have seen Turkey’s belligerence
abroad manifest itself even here in the
United States. Who can forget when
President Erdogan’s bodyguards at-
tacked U.S. citizens in a Washington
park peacefully demonstrating, as is
their constitutional right? And as mo-
mentum builds following the passage of
the Armenian genocide resolution in
the House of Representatives, Turkey
and its lobbyists are working overtime
to block it in the Senate because they
know that if this resolution, which
both I, Senator CRUZ, and bipartisan
Members on both sides have sponsored,
were to come to the floor for a vote, it
would pass resoundingly and send a
clarion message that recognizes the
truth. The Armenian genocide hap-
pened, it was a monstrous act, and
those who deny it are complicit in a
terrible lie. Genocide is genocide. The
Senate should not bow to this pressure.
It cannot bow to this pressure. Let’s
pass this resolution today.
Erdogan’s behavior abroad has roots
inside of Turkey, where the democratic
process has significantly eroded and re-
ligious freedom is under sustained pres-
sure. In particular, the Ecumenical Pa-
triarch Bartholomew of the Greek Or-
thodox Church—and its community—
faces dire consequences as the spiritual
head of the world’s second largest
Christian church. His church properties
have been confiscated, and President
Erdogan restricts his religious free-
dom. This is wrong, and his All Holi-
ness deserves our attention and our on-
going support. For those who speak
about religious freedom in this Cham-
ber—and I admire the many who have—
as well as on the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, this is also an issue
of religious freedom.
Of course, Erdogan’s repression of his
own citizens does not stop with re-
stricting religious freedom. Following
its emergency decree after a failed
coup attempt, Turkish authorities en-
gaged in a draconian crackdown and
roundup of citizens across the country.
The U.N. reports that close to 160,000
people were arrested in an 18-month pe-
riod, including over 100 women who
were pregnant or had just given birth,
often on grounds of nothing more than
that they were associated with their
husbands, many of whom were suspects
on trumped-up charges.
As we examine Turkey’s increasingly
destructive role in the world, we must
never turn a blind eye from those
Turkish citizens who want a more
democratic future for themselves and
their families.
In July, the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee passed my Eastern
Mediterranean Security and Energy
Partnership Act with a strong bipar-
tisan vote. We are working for full pas-
sage in the Senate, and I understand
the House Foreign Affairs Committee
will mark up the legislation soon.
I traveled to Greece and Cypress in
the spring and told leaders in both
places that this was not—not—an anti-
Turkey bill and that we all wanted
Turkey to be a constructive and demo-
cratic partner in the region. At the
time, this vision seemed a long ways
off, but now, given Erdogan’s recent
choices, it has become virtually impos-
sible. Let’s review events since my
visit to the region in the spring of this
year.
First, Erdogan took delivery of the
S–400 air defense system from Russia.
Let me repeat. Turkey, a supposed
NATO ally, purchased an air defense
system from NATO’s main adversary—
the reason that NATO largely came to
be. This choice endangered the security
of the United States and other NATO
partners. The United States made a
good offer of the Patriot missile sys-
tem—an offer that would have main-
tained the security equilibrium in the
region and enabled Turkey to remain a
NATO member in good standing. That
offer was rejected.
The Trump administration did the
right thing in removing Turkey from
the F–35 program. It was clear to all in-
volved that the S–400 could not be
parked next to an F–35. After all, it is
meant and it is intended to be able to
shoot down an F–35—this from a NATO
ally.
But the administration has fallen
well short of its obligations under the
law. Under the CAATSA law, which I
helped write, the administration is re-
quired to sanction any entity that con-
ducts a significant transaction with
the Russian military or intelligence
sectors. This provision of law is not
permissive. It is not optional. Under no
credible definition would the purchase
of an S–400 Russian system not be con-
sidered significant. The administration
is breaking the law by ignoring this
provision and kowtowing to Ankara.
According to U.S. law, Turkey must be
sanctioned for the S–400 system, and it
should happen today. Otherwise, it will
send a global message that we are not
serious about sanctioning significant
transactions with the Russian mili-
tary.
Some have said that such an ap-
proach is unwarranted and unwise lest
we push Erdogan into Putin’s arms. He
is already there. He clearly is already
there.
In a Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee hearing in Syria, I held up this
poster, and I asked the Secretary of
State: What is wrong with this picture?
This picture of President Erdogan,
President Putin, and President
Rouhani of Iran says everything—says
everything. They are two of our biggest
foreign policy challengers. And who is
there with them? Erdogan. I argued
that we were ceding American leader-
ship in Syria and the region to leaders
and countries whose policies were in-
trinsically at odds with our own. Un-
fortunately, today we are seeing the
terrible consequences of this abdica-
tion of leadership.
Erdogan’s warm relationship with
Putin should ring alarm bells across
the NATO alliance, raising concerns
about NATO’s exposure at Incirlik and
intelligence vulnerabilities with re-
spect to the alliance’s presence in Tur-
key. It raises concerns about how
Erdogan and Putin may be working to-
gether to counter U.S. interests across
the Middle East, in the Balkans, and
around the world. NATO is an alliance
of shared values. None of those values
are respected—none of them—by the
current occupant of the Kremlin or in
Ankara.
Second, provided with a green light
from the Trump administration, Presi-
dent Erdogan’s invasion of Syria to at-
tack our Kurdish partners is an uncon-
scionable act of brutality that has
caused death and untold suffering
among our Kurdish friends and part-
ners. Tens of thousands have fled the
area, creating an even greater problem
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.018 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6374 November 5, 2019
of refugees in that war-torn region.
The consequences of these actions by
Turkey and its proxies will persist for
years to come.
Turkey’s incursion poses a direct
threat to U.S. national security inter-
ests in the region, not the least of
which is by facilitating Russian foreign
policy ambitions in the region and
opening the door for ISIS to reconsti-
tute.
At its inception, Turkey did not take
the threat of ISIS seriously enough,
and in the early days, ISIS’s ability to
easily traverse the Turkish-Syrian bor-
der bolstered its ability to grow in
strength and numbers. Turkey did
nothing—nothing—to stop them, did
nothing to stop foreign fighters going
into Syria. While Turkey has legiti-
mate security concerns from the PKK,
its singular focus on extending this
feat to the whole Kurdish population
risks its ability to effectively confront
other terrorist organizations, including
ISIS and al-Qaida.
There must be a full accounting by
Turkey of these atrocities. That is why
I am today introducing an expedited
resolution of request for the Secretary
of State to inform the Senate in 30
days of the extent of Turkey’s human
rights abuses in Syria. This resolution
invokes statutory authority under the
Foreign Assistance Act to require the
Secretary of State to assess and report
to Congress on Turkey’s human rights
abuses in Syria. This resolution calls
for the administration to provide all
available information concerning al-
leged violations of internationally rec-
ognized human rights by Turkey, its
armed forces, and associated groups in
Syria. It calls for a description of the
steps the United States has taken to
promote Turkey’s respect of human
rights in its Syria operations. The res-
olution also calls for a determination
of whether Turkey’s actions have re-
sulted in the release of ISIS or other
extremists inside of Syria.
I am also working closely with the
chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee, Senator RISCH, on the Pro-
moting American National Security
and Preventing the Resurgence of ISIS
Act of 2019, which would impose tar-
geted sanctions on Turkey for its ac-
tions in Syria. A similar bipartisan
measure passed the House last week,
and I urge the Senate to deliberate on
the measure. Based on changing cir-
cumstances on the ground, we are up-
dating the language to condition sanc-
tions based on Turkey’s actions. I hope
it will be marked up in the coming
days.
For years, the world held out hope
that Turkey could be the bridge be-
tween east and west—a democratic,
secular country that could be a democ-
racy in Europe and a responsible actor
on the world stage. I, for one, was al-
ways skeptical but certainly supported
the sentiment. Today we are the fur-
thest from that dream we have ever
been. The most imprisoned journalists
in the world—in the world—are not in
North Korea, Russia, or Iran; they lan-
guish in Turkish prisons. This doesn’t
happen in a democracy.
As international pressure mounted
following Turkey’s invasion of north-
ern Syria, Erdogan threatened to un-
leash thousands of refugees onto the
European Union’s shores, a wave like
we saw in 2015. These aren’t the state-
ments of a rational, responsible actor.
Yet where is U.S. policy? The Trump
administration was its normal erratic
self in recent weeks as it flailed from
sanctions on Turkey to claiming vic-
tory. The Kurds are the ones who
emerged as the clear loser. Erdogan
was eager to sign on to the Pence-
Pompeo plan because it gave him all he
wanted—full control of the Kurdish
areas of Syria and carte blanche to
wipe out swaths of the community.
In addition to claiming victory,
President Trump now wants to invite
Erdogan to Washington with open
arms. Stunning. The photo of Trump
and Erdogan in the Oval Office will not
only be the nail in the coffin for any
Kurdish aspirations to live in peace
and security, it will also be the death
knell for any credibility the United
States hopes to maintain with any
combat partners in the future.
President Trump, I urge you to can-
cel this invitation and side with the bi-
partisan consensus in the Senate and
the House that Turkey, under Erdogan,
is no friend to the United States. Do
not ruin our reputation further by
fawning over yet another authoritarian
leader. You want to repair the damage
that has been done? Show our commit-
ment to our allies by inviting the Syr-
ian Kurdish leadership to the Oval Of-
fice for a meeting on how we prevent a
resurgence of ISIS. That is how you
protect our interests. That is how you
protect our national security.
It is time to challenge Erdogan to
live up to NATO’s values and to respect
the international order. It is time to
stop enabling Turkey to be a bad actor.
It is time for the Senate to act.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:43 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION—Continued
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David Austin Tapp, of Kentucky,
to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years.
Tim Scott, Roger F. Wicker, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, John Cornyn,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Mike Braun, Rich-
ard Burr, Thom Tillis, John Boozman,
John Hoeven, David Perdue, Kevin
Cramer, John Barrasso, Michael B.
Enzi, Chuck Grassley, Mitch McCon-
nell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of David Austin Tapp, of Kentucky, to
be a Judge of the United States Court
of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen
years, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON),
the Senator from Idaho (Mr. RISCH),
and the Senator from Nebraska (Mr.
SASSE).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 83,
nays 9, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 343 Ex.]
YEAS—83
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.020 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6375
November 5, 2019
NAYS—9
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Schatz
Schumer
Stabenow
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Burr
Isakson
Klobuchar
Risch
Sanders
Sasse
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 83, the nays are 9.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Iowa.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
have a couple of issues on which I want
to speak. Trade and section No. 232
would be my second issue. The first one
about which I want to speak is com-
monsense entitlement reform.
In the past year, we have seen a flur-
ry of drug-pricing proposals. I am en-
couraged by the efforts of my col-
leagues here in the Senate, especially
by Ranking Member WYDEN, by my col-
leagues in the House of Representa-
tives who agree with this effort to re-
duce drug prices, and by the President
of the United States, who has already
been involved for a year and a half in
lowering drug prices. All have made
lowering prescription drug costs one of
the core principles of our efforts and
particularly a core principle for this
administration.
I have paid attention to each of the
pieces of legislation that have been
proposed and have looked at their pros
and cons closely. However, so far, there
is only one bipartisan proposal that
cuts prescription drug prices, that pro-
tects innovation, that lowers what sen-
ior citizens will pay at the pharmacy
counter, and that brings along with it
entitlement reform. The Prescription
Drug Pricing Reduction Act of 2019 is
the bill I am talking about. It respon-
sibly reduces Medicare Part D costs.
As with any widely encompassing
piece of legislation, there has been
some spirited debate surrounding the
different provisions of our bill. So I am
here today, hoping to clear up some of
the confusion surrounding a phrase
that I have heard thrown around in
this debate—‘‘price setting.’’ Oppo-
nents of the legislation criticize the
bill for price setting. The scare tactic
associated with this claim is centered
on one particular policy in our bill—
that of matching the growth of govern-
ment subsidies that drug manufactur-
ers receive to the rate of consumer in-
flation.
When I set out at the beginning of
this year to create a piece of bipartisan
legislation that had real and meaning-
ful change, I knew the focus had to be
on individual Americans. That is why
we kept out-of-pocket costs at a level
at which seniors could see relief. That
is why we banned spread pricing, which
games the healthcare system to the
detriment of the beneficiaries and the
taxpayers. That is why we created a
new way of paying for lifesaving but
very costly Medicare drugs. That is
why we kept the growth of government
subsidies in Medicare Part D to the
rate of inflation.
Unlike other proposals, the Senate
Committee on Finance’s policy does
not tie the launch price to an artifi-
cially low price. The bill doesn’t stop a
drug company from recouping its re-
search and development costs, which
will lead to more innovation.
What the Part D inflationary rebate
does is really quite simple. After
launching, if a drug manufacturer
chooses to raise the price above the
rate of inflation, it has to return the
difference for the drugs paid by Medi-
care. This policy limits government
subsidies in order to provide predict-
ability for the Medicare Program. At
the same time, it provides protection
for the American taxpayer. That is
simply all it does. Any subsidies that
the pharmaceutical companies would
have received from an exorbitant raise
in price is then returned to Americans
rather than to line pharma’s pockets.
The inflation rebate incentivizes com-
panies to stabilize their pricing, and
the taxpayers’ money is used more pru-
dently and more efficiently.
You have all heard of CATO, the re-
search organization and policy organi-
zation. CATO is one of the Nation’s
leading libertarian and free market or-
ganizations. It has praised the bill for
its significant cost savings for the tax-
payers. Does anyone really think a lib-
ertarian organization would endorse
price controls? In its analysis of the
bill, CATO wrote that this bill ‘‘would
not impose price controls’’ and ‘‘would
reduce wasteful Medicare spending.’’
CATO also acknowledged that these
‘‘commonsense tweaks to a bloated en-
titlement program are encountering
strong opposition . . . mostly from
those who would not make quite as
much money off the taxpayers.’’
We all know that Medicare’s finances
are worsening. The program is pro-
jected to become insolvent within the
next 6 years if we continue down this
very same path. In getting back to my
bipartisan bill, the Grassley-Wyden bill
will ensure that the Federal Govern-
ment uses Medicare’s budget to pay for
lifesaving treatments in a fiscally re-
sponsible manner.
This goal is not without precedent.
For those who say we are acting in an
unprecedented way and are setting
prices, I say it isn’t setting prices.
They forget that throughout the Amer-
ican healthcare system, the govern-
ment has, at one time or another, set
up different ways to constrain high and
rising costs.
For example, States have not been
allowed to pay Medicaid providers at a
rate that has been higher than Medi-
care’s. Another example is in the Medi-
care Program. Medicare Part A has
paid for the operating costs associated
with acute inpatient care and has used
the inpatient prospective payment sys-
tem, or what is referred to as IPPS.
Congress enacted the inpatient pro-
spective payment system to constrain
the growth of Medicare’s inpatient hos-
pital payments by providing incentives
for those facilities to provide care
more efficiently.
Congress also requires that the con-
cept of budget neutrality be applied to
a number of Medicare payment sys-
tems, including to provider payments.
This is simple. In other words, the gov-
ernment says that if one provider gets
an increase, another provider is re-
duced.
Finally, the Center for Medicare &
Medicaid Innovation, within the CMS,
is required by statute to enforce finan-
cial controls on total Medicare spend-
ing. The Center can only test different
ways to pay for services in Medicare
and Medicaid if they are expected to
lower costs while they maintain qual-
ity. So this idea of using taxpayer dol-
lars responsibly and in a targeted man-
ner exists in many facets of the Amer-
ican healthcare system.
My point is, while some call the in-
flationary rebate in Part D a price con-
trol, I urge all of the Members to con-
sider how Congress is using measures
to contain costs currently. Isn’t it the
fiscally responsible thing to do when
Federal taxpayer dollars are being
spent by those of us in Congress?
Shouldn’t we do what we can to con-
tain costs? After all, it is not what hos-
pitals, doctors, and pharmaceutical
companies may charge; it is about
what the American taxpayer will pay
for services. That doesn’t fall into the
category of price controls. At the
markup for my prescription drug bill,
even the Director of the independent
Congressional Budget Office agreed
with me.
I could continue to give examples of
budgetary tools in the toolbox that
Congress uses in an attempt to be fis-
cally responsible with regard to Medi-
care and Medicaid. I could also con-
tinue to provide examples of out-
rageous drug costs. Yet the bottom line
is that the Prescription Drug Pricing
Reduction Act of 2019 is a win for
Americans across the board.
Seniors will pay less out of pocket;
taxpayers will know their money is
being used appropriately; and drug
manufacturers will continue to be able
to innovate.
That is why Ranking Member WYDEN
and I strove to achieve these things in
the very beginning. I urge my col-
leagues to keep these considerations in
mind, and hopefully my colleagues will
support this legislation as a way of an-
swering the concerns that constituents
express in almost every State. At least
in the 99 county meetings that I hold
in Iowa every year, doing something
about the pricing of prescription drugs
comes up. It has to be that way all over
the country.
TRADE
Now I want to turn to trade legisla-
tion, and I will not be as long on this
point as I was on prescription drugs.
When I resumed chairmanship of the
Senate Finance Committee in January,
I laid out my top priorities for the
committee’s work.
For international trade, my agenda
included reviewing section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, which al-
lows the President, without any input
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.003 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6376 November 5, 2019
from Congress, to impose tariffs in the
name of national security.
For 11 months now, I have been work-
ing with other Finance Committee
members on both sides of the aisle to
establish a separation of powers and
checks and balances in the section 232
process. These two basic principles of
our system of government are sorely
lacking in section 232 as it stands
today.
Two of my colleagues on the Finance
Committee, Senators TOOMEY and
PORTMAN, each filed reform bills that
are well thought out, and both happen
to be bipartisan. A full quarter of the
Senate has cosponsored one or more of
their bills, including 10 Democrats, 14
Republicans, and 1 Independent.
Many other Senators have told me
that they, too, want to see section 232
reforms reported out of the Finance
Committee.
With a strong bipartisan mandate
like that, I have been optimistic that
Ranking Member WYDEN and I can rec-
oncile the Toomey and Portman bills
and hold a markup. More than once I
have spoken publicly about my inten-
tions to do just that.
However, every time we get close to
marking up a section 232 bill, Senator
WYDEN hears from stakeholders who
are profiting from tariff production.
Meanwhile, I get calls from colleagues
who say something like this, and I am
paraphrasing: Mr. Chairman, the Presi-
dent won’t like us taking away his tar-
iff law, and we don’t want to make the
President upset.
Well, we hear that a lot, whether we
have a Republican or Democratic
President, on a whole lot of other
issues. But we don’t have to listen to
the President of the United States. We
are Members of an independent branch
of government, able to do our own
thing—work with the President when
we can and not worry about the Presi-
dent when we can’t.
Well, allow me to set the record
straight on a few things that I have
just set before you so far.
First, as I have said before, reforming
section 232 is not about President
Trump. Reforming section 232 means
acknowledging that the 87th Congress
handed President Jack Kennedy enor-
mous authority over trade in 1962 at
the height of the Cold War. President
Trump was merely following that 1962
law.
In the process, he alerted us to the
fact that Congress has been too neg-
ligent in the past in protecting our
constitutional responsibility of law-
making. Our Founding Fathers were
explicit in tasking Congress with re-
sponsibility over international trade,
and it is time now to rebalance section
232 in line with the Founding Fathers’
clear intentions.
Secondly, I have been clear that I am
generally not a fan of tariffs, but I also
want to make clear that I have agreed
to Senator WYDEN’s request to intro-
duce a chairman and ranking member’s
mark that does not unwind section 232
measures on steel and aluminum. Many
problems with those tariffs and quotas
have been well documented, but I have
been in the Senate long enough to
know that getting things done requires
compromise.
Third, and to all of my colleagues
and everyone listening, I don’t view 232
reforms as weakening the power of the
Chief Executive. I view them as en-
hancing the effectiveness of the Chief
Executive in our country. As the Su-
preme Court told President Truman,
the Office of President and the Presi-
dent himself are strongest when Con-
gress is behind him.
We need reforms to section 232 that
will make clearer where Congress
stands on national security and trade.
Such reforms would also make clearer
to our trading partners that when sec-
tion 232 is used, Congress stands with
the President.
Now, with these points cleared up, I
hope that Ranking Member WYDEN,
members of the Finance Committee,
and our House colleagues will be ready
to reform section 232.
We have a strong, bipartisan man-
date to get to work, and this is likely
just the beginning of a great deal of
work that needs to be done to review
our trade laws.
Senator WYDEN and I have reported
bipartisan bills out of the committee
successfully in the past, and hopefully
we can do it again for section 232.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I
come to the floor today to discuss an
issue that is important in my State
and I think in every State.
Illinois, which I represent and am
proud to represent, is a State with the
great American city of Chicago but
with many other towns and cities of a
variety of different sizes.
I actually was born in downstate Illi-
nois, 300 miles away from Chicago. Be-
tween the great city of Chicago and the
rest of our State, there are many small
towns and rural areas. When you go
into these areas and talk about the
quality of life and living in a small
town or rural America, there are a lot
of challenges.
Just a few weeks ago I was in Cal-
houn County, one of the smallest in
our State. We had an assembly of kids
in middle school and grade school, and
we announced that the local electric
cooperative, the Illinois Electric Coop-
erative, was finally going to bring that
level of access to the internet for which
Calhoun County—the people who live
there and those students—have been
waiting for a decade or longer. It took
longer for it to reach there.
I am glad the electric cooperative led
the fight. Historically, the electric co-
operatives literally brought electricity
to rural America. Now they are bring-
ing high-speed internet to rural Amer-
ica, and it is critically important for
students to learn, along with all of the
other services that many people living
in big cities take for granted come
with the internet.
That is one example, but another one
you run into all the time is the com-
ments of people in smalltown America
about access to healthcare. You see,
across our State we have millions of
people who live in smaller towns, rural
towns, who don’t have the same qual-
ity healthcare nearby, whether it is a
hospital or a doctor or even a dentist.
Across Illinois, 5 million people live in
areas with shortages, and 2 million live
in areas without a dentist. Almost all
of them live in an area without access
to mental health providers—coun-
selors, psychologists.
The consequences speak for them-
selves. Only 1 in 10 people with sub-
stance abuse disorders get the care
that they need in these areas, and 43
percent of rural Americans do not have
access to dentists—43 percent.
Well, there is a Federal program that
has been addressing it for a long time,
and, coincidentally, the Presiding Offi-
cer from Tennessee is the cosponsor of
legislation I am going to address at
this moment.
Today there is a Federal program in
place called National Health Service
Corps. It provides loan forgiveness to
entice doctors and other healthcare
professionals to serve in places with
healthcare needs. In total, 10,000 doc-
tors, dentists, behavioral health spe-
cialists, and nurses use the National
Health Service Corps and treat 11 mil-
lion Americans each year in hospitals
and community clinics.
We entice them to come to these un-
derserved areas by paying off their
loans. As you probably know, doctors
and dentists and nurses and others end
up graduating with a lot of student
loans.
Illinois has more than 550 of these
National Health Service Corps clini-
cians, but fewer than 75 of them serve
in rural areas. As we face an opioid epi-
demic that touches every corner of
America—no city too large, no town
too small, no suburb too wealthy to
have escaped it—we need that kind of
professional healthcare across the
board in urban areas as well as rural
areas. That is why I have teamed up
with the Presiding Officer, Senator
BLACKBURN of Tennessee, on a bipar-
tisan piece of legislation that we call
the Rural America Health Corps Act.
Our bill will expand the current
Corps program to provide new loan for-
giveness funding for providers who will
serve in rural areas in Tennessee, in Il-
linois, and across the Nation. It pro-
vides funding for 5 years rather than
the usual 2 to ensure that doctors, den-
tists, and nurses plant their roots in
rural America.
With the National Health Corps up
for reauthorization this year, Senator
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.023 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6377
November 5, 2019
BLACKBURN and I are pleading with our
friends, Chairman LAMAR ALEXANDER
of Tennessee and Ranking Member
PATTY MURRAY of Washington, to pro-
mote this rural focus.
It isn’t the only thing I have looked
at when it comes to rural America. I
recently introduced a bill with Senator
ROBERTS of Kansas. Senator ROBERTS is
chairman of the Senate Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry Committee,
and he agreed to include in the farm
bill something called the SIREN Act.
The SIREN Act provides funding to
support rural fire and EMS agencies
with training and recruiting staff and
purchasing equipment—everything
from naloxone to power stretchers.
I recently visited Nauvoo, IL. Stu-
dents of history may recognize the
name of this town, but Nauvoo, IL, is
where a man by the name of Mr. Ken-
nedy came forward and told me about
the need for new, modern equipment on
their ambulances in this rural Hancock
County area.
Because of what he told me, I intro-
duced the bill. It passed as part of the
farm bill, and we are going to start
making money available in rural parts
of America for these emergency man-
agement specialists to have the right
training and the right equipment to re-
spond when needed.
These bipartisan bills are important
for rural healthcare, but we also have
to maintain the structure of our key
health programs.
Thankfully, Illinois has expanded the
Medicaid Program through the Afford-
able Care Act, which has provided a
funding lifeline to keep many of our
rural hospitals from the brink of clo-
sure. It also expanded health insurance
to 1 million people in Illinois.
Ten years ago, when we passed
ObamaCare, the Affordable Care Act,
too many Americans did not have
health insurance.
If you have ever been in a moment in
your life when you were the father of a
sick child who desperately needed med-
ical care and you had no health insur-
ance, you will never forget it as long as
you live. I know. I have been there. It
made an impression on me as a young
father that I have never forgotten.
So when this bill, the Affordable Care
Act, passed and I saw so many Ameri-
cans finally getting health insurance, I
knew it was giving them peace of mind
and access to affordable, quality, ac-
cessible healthcare.
This week marks the beginning of
the open enrollment period to sign up
for healthcare under the Affordable
Care Act, which ends on December 15.
It is vital to make sure that everyone
signs up at ‘‘healthcare.gov’’ if you are
not currently covered and you want to
know what is available to you. Most
patients will find the premiums are
less than $100 a month, and if you are
in certain income categories you will
get a lot of help in making the pre-
mium payment.
But the No. 1 thing that I hear from
constituents—and it has nothing to do
with what I just mentioned. I listened
to my friend from Iowa, Republican
Senator CHUCK GRASSLEY, on the floor
a few minutes ago talking about an
issue that each of us runs into in every
State in the Union. Here is the ques-
tion: If you ask the American people
what is the issue that you are con-
cerned about from an economic view-
point that you think the Congress can
do something about, 90 percent of
Democrats, 90 percent of Republicans,
90 percent of Independents all come
back with the same answer. Do you
know what it is? The cost of prescrip-
tion drugs. People understand that
these prescription drugs are so expen-
sive, they are beyond the reach of
many people who desperately need
them.
Now, there was a Senator from Wis-
consin years back named William
Proxmire. He used to issue monthly
recognitions of the most flagrant, ex-
cessive examples of waste in the Fed-
eral Government. He called it the
‘‘Golden Fleece.’’ Earlier this year, I
launched a series of awards to carry on
Senator Proxmire’s work, with the
focus on the pharmaceutical industry,
the people who make the drugs.
This month, I had this sign produced.
This month, the Pharma Fleece award
is going to the drug industry’s trade
group, PhRMA, and the Trump admin-
istration, I am afraid, for a giveaway in
the new NAFTA trade bill. What does a
trade bill have to do with PhRMA or
the price of prescription drugs? It turns
out that PhRMA—boy, they are good—
managed to slip in a provision in this
trade bill that most Members of Con-
gress are not even aware of.
This new trade agreement, as you
might expect, involving Canada, Mex-
ico, and the United States, covers a
wide range of issues. My farmers are
very excited about it. The men and
women in labor unions are concerned
about it. But it falls far short when it
comes to labor and environmental pro-
tections. There is a lot of work that
needs to be done.
But the one provision that I want to
highlight today is tucked inside this
sprawling document. It is a provision
that guarantees monopoly protection
for pharmaceutical companies by
blocking competition, generic drug
competition. It means that these com-
panies can continue to call for sky-
high prescription drug costs.
This is just another example of an
issue that the President said during his
campaign was a high priority and we
all talk about on the floor of the Sen-
ate that is being sneaked into this new
NAFTA trade bill. Let’s remember, the
top four drug companies avoided pay-
ing $7 billion in taxes last year—$7 bil-
lion—and were able to buy back an-
other $30 billion in stock thanks to
President Trump’s tax reform package.
It was very kind to PhRMA, not that
they needed it.
Americans already pay, incidentally,
the highest prices in the world for pre-
scription drugs, four times what is paid
in Canada or Europe. So why would the
administration agree to put a provision
for PhRMA to guarantee high prices
into the new NAFTA trade bill?
Listen to the story. In 2017, for exam-
ple, Canadians can purchase a year’s
supply of Humira—recognize the name?
You should. It is the most heavily ad-
vertised prescription drug on tele-
vision, Humira, made by AbbVie, a
company in Illinois—it is used for a
disease called psoriatic arthritis. Cana-
dians can buy a year’s supply for
$20,000—not cheap. You know what
Americans pay for exactly the same
drug they buy from exactly the same
company? Over $40,000, more than
twice as much as the Canadians.
Why? The Canadian Government
cares. They said to AbbVie and to
Pharma: We are not going to let you
overcharge Canadians. We are going to
protect our Canadian families and our
Canadian healthcare system. The
United States doesn’t. Often, Big
Pharma charges as much as it can get
away with by manipulating our patent
and exclusivity rules to avoid competi-
tion.
Drugs known as biologics, like
Humira, Rituxan, and Remicade, are
medicines made from living organisms.
They are known as biologics. They
make up 2 percent of all the prescrip-
tions sold, but they count for 37 per-
cent of the cost of prescription drugs—
very expensive drugs.
Those three biologics have all been
on the market for more than 17 years,
and yet they are still the top seven
highest grossing drugs in America due
to the fortress of monopoly protections
that Pharma has created.
Now, listen closely. Under U.S. law,
biologics like the ones I mentioned—
Humira is one of them—are given a 12-
year exclusivity period once the FDA
approves their application. What does
that mean? No one can compete with
them. They own the market. They set
the price.
That means that a cheaper generic
competitor cannot be approved by the
Food and Drug Administration in the
United States for more than 10 years,
while the brand-name company is free
to charge whatever it wants. Wonder
why prices are high? There is no com-
petition.
I believe the standard is too high and
have cosponsored legislation to reduce
this period to no more than 7 years.
Canada’s exclusivity period is 8 years.
Mexico does not have one.
But now let’s go to the new NAFTA
trade agreement and look closely at
the fine print that PhRMA included in
that. The administration wants to en-
shrine our Pharma-friendly laws by
setting a 10-year exclusivity floor for
all three countries. It is a virtual guar-
antee that PhRMA, when it comes to
biologics, will be able to charge what-
ever they wish for 10 years or more in
Canada, Mexico, and the United States.
Why is that in the trade agreement?
If all of us agree that prescription drug
prices are too high, why are we putting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.024 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6378 November 5, 2019
in the NAFTA trade agreement a
sweetheart deal for PhRMA so that
they can charge higher prices, not just
in the United States, but in Canada
and Mexico?
This new NAFTA has provisions that
will encourage drug companies to ob-
tain excessive numbers of secondary
patents that delay generic competition
and keep prices high.
So when my farmers come to me and
say: Why are you not for NAFTA? And
I say to them, if it was just about
farmers, it would be one thing. But it
is about American families, Canadian
families, families even in Mexico pay-
ing higher prices for prescription drugs
because of the trade agreement that
the President wants us to approve. We
should be working to bring lower-cost
products to market sooner, not allow-
ing Pharma to sneak in a payday into
a trade package at the expense of
American families.
It should come as no surprise that
the main coalition running ads sup-
porting the approval of NAFTA is the
pharmaceutical industry of the United
States. In fact, PhRMA and BIO, the
two largest pharmaceutical associa-
tions, have already spent $30 million
lobbying Congress to pass this new
NAFTA. Now, we know why.
For all the President’s talk, this pro-
vision in this trade agreement is a Tro-
jan horse giveaway for Big Pharma at
the expense of American patients. I
guess we should not being surprised,
but I will say this: If Members of Con-
gress, Democrats and Republicans,
House and Senate, are listening to the
people they represent back home about
the cost of prescription drugs, they will
not fall for this new Pharma fleece.
Madam President, I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Clerk will call the roll.
Mr. JONES. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL PEANUT FESTIVAL
Mr. JONES. Madam President, it is
not often in floor remarks we can often
hit a trifecta on topics that are unique-
ly connected, but I am fortunate
enough to have that privilege today.
They all center around the glorious
peanut. I want to honor the National
Peanut Festival currently being held in
Dothan, AL, which recognizes the im-
portance of the peanut industry to the
State of Alabama and to the United
States.
Every year, Dothan hosts the Na-
tion’s largest peanut festival to honor
local peanut farmers and to celebrate
harvest season. The festival began in
1938 and has been held annually each
year, except for the years during the
hiatus during World War II. This year’s
festival is a 10-day-long extravaganza
with food, fun, and entertainment. You
name it, you can find it in Dothan dur-
ing the peanut festival. It is one of the
most popular events in Alabama each
year. In 2017, the festival broke attend-
ance records with over 200,000 people
joining the fun.
Unfortunately, my schedule has pre-
vented me from being down there this
week, but I wish I had been there. I
wish I could go for the end of this be-
cause it is a glorious time.
Last week, I introduced a resolution
here in the Senate to pay tribute to the
National Peanut Festival and the im-
portance of peanuts in our State and
the entire country. Over 400 million
pounds of peanuts are produced every
year in Alabama alone, and nearly half
of all the peanuts in America are
grown within a 100-mile radius of
Dothan, AL, where most of those pea-
nuts are processed. It is no wonder that
the city of Dothan—down in southeast
Alabama, right in the corner, just right
on the border of Georgia and Florida—
is known as the Peanut Capital of the
World.
The peanut industry is a critical part
of Alabama’s economy. In 2018 alone,
the 400 million pounds of peanuts pro-
duced by Alabama farmers was valued
at $118 million. The farm value of the
Nation’s peanut crop is over a billion
dollars. And like all farmers, peanut
farmers have their share of challenges.
But year after year, the peanut farmers
in Alabama and across the country per-
severe, providing a crop whose impor-
tance is often simply taken for grant-
ed—well, as peanuts, as it pertains to
our overall economy.
But the peanut is an important sta-
ple to the agriculture and food indus-
try, thanks in large part to the amaz-
ing and extraordinary work of a sci-
entist, an African-American scientist
and adopted son of Alabama, Dr.
George Washington Carver, who did his
work at one of Alabama’s great HBCUs,
Tuskegee University.
Dr. Carver was born into slavery, but
raised by his former master once slav-
ery was abolished. He was forced to at-
tend segregated schools until 1891,
when he was accepted as the first
Black student at Iowa State Univer-
sity. Only 5 years later, in 1896, Dr.
Carver was hired by the great Booker
T. Washington to head the Agriculture
Department at Tuskegee Institute, now
known as Tuskegee University, in
Tuskegee, AL.
At that point, peanuts were not even
recognized as a crop in the United
States, but because of a serious threat
to the South’s cotton crop from boll
weevil infestations, Dr. Carver sug-
gested that Alabama farmers start
growing peanuts in the alternate years,
which he believed would restore and
add nutrients to the barren soil so that
cotton could grow the next year.
It worked. He not only was a leading
voice for crop rotation but ended up in-
venting over 300 products made out of
peanuts, including peanut milk, peanut
paper, and peanut soap—although, sur-
prisingly, he did not invent my favor-
ite, peanut butter, but 300 different
types of products made from peanuts.
In 1921, in a highly unusual cir-
cumstance in the era of Jim Crow, Dr.
Carver testified regarding the value of
peanuts before the Ways and Means
Committee of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives—an African-American sci-
entist in front of the U.S. House in
1921. In 1938, again during the Jim Crow
era in Alabama, Dr. Carver was the fea-
tured speaker at the first peanut fes-
tival in Dothan, AL.
Peanuts became more and more pop-
ular, and by 1940, they had become one
of the top six crops in the United
States—all in large part due to the
work of Dr. Carver at Tuskegee Univer-
sity. It is not an overstatement to say
that Dr. Carver, Tuskegee University,
and the peanut helped save the econ-
omy of the South.
This is just one example of the ex-
traordinary contributions that HBCUs
have made to our country over the
years and continue to make today.
But, as we have talked about for some
time, including with my friend Senator
CARDIN earlier today, those contribu-
tions are threatened because of the ex-
piration of Federal funding that oc-
curred at the end of September.
I have been pushing for the passage
of my bill, the FUTURE Act, which
would renew funding for HBCUs and
other minority-serving institutions
that expired at the end of September.
We need to continue to invest in these
institutions and ensure they have con-
sistent funding.
We have worked with this bill, the
FUTURE Act, to make sure the con-
cerns of others—particularly those who
might object to the UC we have asked
for on the FUTURE Act—to make sure
that this is not some Federal budget
gimmick. We have answered those con-
cerns. We have answered all the pay-for
concerns. All we are asking for is con-
sistent funding because now planning
is as important as the money. Yes, the
Department of Education has told
HBCUs that the funding would be there
through September, but by this spring,
those institutions have to plan. They
have to start making sure they have
the necessary resources for the fall and
beyond. If their funding is set to expire
at the end of next year, they cannot
make those plans, both with teachers
and their infrastructure.
We need to continue to make sure
those HBCUs are funded consistently
and appropriately. Let’s make sure we
put aside any differences and make
sure those funds are available so that
our great HBCUs and minority-serving
institutions across the country can
continue to operate and plan.
We need to honor the legacy of Dr.
Carver, which is one of the reasons I
was so proud to introduce a resolution
honoring the National Peanut Festival
and the peanut industry in the State of
Alabama. It is a testament to the im-
portance of the peanut and a time to
celebrate its history, our State, and
the peanut farming way of life.
I am hopeful that with the advance-
ments of peanut allergy research, we
can make sure more people have the
ability to enjoy what so many of us
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.026 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6379
November 5, 2019
can. I understand that peanut allergies
are a real problem around the country
and around the world for a lot of peo-
ple. But advances in research that is
going on right now—right now—can
make sure we break through and that
all who want to can enjoy the value
and the taste of those wonderful pea-
nuts. I am not going to go through spe-
cifics. I could name all manner of prod-
ucts. I won’t do that here today, but I
thank you for this opportunity.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
ENERGY POVERTY
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
come to the floor today to discuss the
global fight to end poverty and specifi-
cally the problem of energy poverty.
The numbers paint a very grim pic-
ture. Worldwide, 840 million people are
living without electricity. They can’t
cook or heat their homes safely or reli-
ably. In fact, nearly 3 billion people—3
billion people worldwide—still rely on
wood and waste for household energy.
What should the United States do to
help? First and foremost, I believe we
should push multilateral development
banks, like the World Bank, to invest
in affordable energy projects, which
will help these people. The World
Bank’s mission is to lift people out of
poverty—to help lift people out of pov-
erty. That is their mission. Specifi-
cally, it seeks to end extreme poverty
while promoting shared prosperity.
For 75 years, the United States has
been working with the World Bank to
help developing countries grow. The
United States remains the World
Bank’s largest contributor. Every U.S.
dollar at the World Bank should make
a difference for people in the devel-
oping world.
The World Bank’s new policies, how-
ever, lead me to call for a review by the
United States of how U.S. dollars are
being used. Several years ago, the
World Bank decided to stop financing
certain projects—specifically, oil, gas,
and coal projects. I am concerned the
World Bank is now blocking affordable
energy development—energy that is
needed to make a positive difference
for so many people in the developing
world. Traditional fuels are a vital tool
for escaping energy poverty. Yet, with
the policy change in the World Bank,
only renewable energy projects qualify
for funding. It seems that the World
Bank is putting its liberal political
agenda ahead of our anti-poverty mis-
sion.
The question is, Does the World Bank
still want to help the people living in
poor nations today? That is the ques-
tion. If so, they should be helping with
the use of abundant and affordable en-
ergy resources. If not, then I think the
United States must reevaluate our sup-
port for the World Bank.
Here is a case in point: The Bank re-
stricts the financing of high-efficiency
power stations fueled by coal. Last fall,
for example, the World Bank failed to
honor its commitment to the country
of Kosovo. The Bank pulled its funding
from Kosovo’s state-of-the-art, coal-
fired powerplant—state of the art—
needed in Kosovo. Kosovo faces an en-
ergy security barrier to grow. They
don’t have enough energy to grow the
way they are prepared to. Kosovo has
the fifth largest coal reserves in the
world. Kosovo desperately needs to re-
tire its older facility.
I saw this firsthand last month when
I was visiting members of the Wyoming
National Guard stationed in northern
Kosovo. This decision by the World
Bank is simply unacceptable.
What are other countries doing?
China and Russia, meanwhile, are dra-
matically increasing their global in-
vestment in identical carbon-based en-
ergy projects. The World Bank is say-
ing: Go ask China. Go ask Russia.
South Africa, for example, is now
working with China’s development
bank on its coal-fired powerplant.
There are serious concerns when our
allies work with China and Russia.
These include lower standards, depend-
ence on these countries, and undue po-
litical influence.
A number of Members in the Senate
share my concern. On Thursday, I led a
group of a dozen Senators in urging the
World Bank to immediately lift these
harmful restrictions. My letter to the
President of the World Bank, President
David Malpass, was cosigned by Sen-
ators BOOZMAN, CAPITO, COTTON,
CRAMER, CRUZ, ENZI, HOEVEN, JOHNSON,
KENNEDY, MURKOWSKI, and THUNE. To-
gether, we are pressing the World Bank
to recommit to an ‘‘all of the above’’
energy strategy. Developing countries
desperately need affordable, reliable
energy.
We say in our letter:
People living in poor and developing na-
tions want and need a stable energy supply.
They are looking for power generation that
provides energy security, helps create jobs,
and improves their lives.
People back home in Wyoming know
firsthand the benefits of developing
abundant energy resources. The United
States is a top global energy producer.
Wyoming has played a key role in this
success. We have produced our way to a
booming U.S. economy, and we have
created millions of new jobs along the
way. People who are struggling world-
wide to survive and thrive in devel-
oping countries deserve that same op-
portunity. As an energy powerhouse,
America can help empower our allies
and our energy exports.
Global philanthropist Bill Gates said:
‘‘Increasing access to electricity is
critical to lifting the world’s poor out
of poverty. Let me repeat. ‘‘Increasing
access to electricity is critical to lift-
ing the world’s poor out of poverty.’’
Ultimately, the solution to energy
poverty doesn’t lie in limiting options
but in using all available options. In
pursuit of its mission, the World Bank
must embrace, not exclude, abundant,
affordable energy resources.
Let’s work together to end energy
poverty now for the 840 million people
on the planet living without elec-
tricity.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. ROBERTS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. ROBERTS. Madam President,
about a month ago there was a head-
line in one of the publications that peo-
ple pay attention to that read: ‘‘Senate
Republicans Amp Up Pressure for an
USMCA Vote.’’ USMCA, by the way, is
an acronym for the new trade agree-
ment between Mexico, Canada, and the
United States. I initially thought it
was ‘‘United States Marine Corps Al-
ways,’’ but that is not the case. About
nine of us came to the floor and point-
ed out this was imperative, and if we
were going to have a new trade agree-
ment to replace NAFTA, if we could at
least get some price recovery and also
make some progress with regard to
Canada and Mexico—historically great
trading partners—it might be a good
thing to get the USMCA passed. That
was a month ago.
We were assured, at that particular
time, by folks over in the House of
Representatives—our colleagues over
there—that they would do everything
in their power to see if we could get it
done. It is not done. Still, it is not
done. Still, farmers, ranchers, growers,
and everybody connected with agri-
culture, and, for that matter, trade,
certainly have been waiting and wait-
ing. Times in farm country, as I think
most people know, are pretty rough
these days. So at least passing USMCA
would be something everybody could
agree to.
I rise in support of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement again—1
month later. It is time to move forward
and pass this important legislation
now. ‘‘Now,’’ that is my acronym for
‘‘right away,’’ ‘‘yesterday.’’
As chairman of the Senate Agri-
culture Committee, I want to talk
about not only my producers in Kansas
but all producers throughout these
United States and across the country.
Time and again, we have asked why
there is a delay. Farmers tell me, time
and again, they wonder what on Earth
is going on back there. Well, that is ob-
vious to everybody, with the ‘‘i’’ word
being considered over in the House, but
even with that, this is a situation
where, if that were brought up to a
vote, both the administration and
House Members—both sides of the
aisle—it would pass, more so especially
since our Trade Ambassador, Robert
Lighthizer, has been working with my
colleagues across the aisle over there
in an effort to settle labor issues and
also environmental concerns.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.027 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6380 November 5, 2019
I have been down that road before
with the Honorable Kika de la Garza,
the late Kika de la Garza, but a won-
derful man who was chairman of the
House Agriculture Committee. I was
the ranking member and then became
the chairman. We worked on NAFTA,
writing that bill. We would revert to
that bill, but after months and months,
there was finally an agreement be-
tween Canada, Mexico, and the United
States. We were ready to do this, and it
had to go to the House of Representa-
tives. Ambassador Lighthizer and
Bob—he used to work for Bob Dole, a
good friend of mine—had been working
with Democrats over time on these two
issues. He tells me he is pretty close to
a deal—except we are not. Now, Ambas-
sador Lighthizer, on behalf of the ad-
ministration, is not going to send this
deal, if you will, this trade agreement,
to the House unless there is a clear in-
tention that it will be brought up. He
doesn’t want to be held hostage. So the
House has to move.
I want to continue to point out that
USMCA, this new trade agreement, will
not only increase market access for
farmers and provide new opportunities
for dairy, poultry, for egg producers,
for all the commodities we talk
about—wheat, corn, et cetera—but it
will also address longstanding nontariff
barriers that will help our Kansas
farmers export wheat to Canada.
That used to be the case with Mexico.
The Kansas winter wheat, once har-
vested, would get on the Kansas City
railroad, down to Mexico. They would
sell the wheat to Mexico, where they
sorely needed it. It was a very good
business trade agreement. That has
pretty much dried up.
Let me go back to 2017. At that par-
ticular time, 110,000 Kansas jobs were
supported by trade with Canada and
Mexico, and, I am sure, the neighboring
States are even equal to that or much
more than that.
While many of those jobs are spread
across all sectors of the economy,
many are tied to the agriculture value
chain; that is, farmers, ranchers, and
growers, to the consumer.
In total, Kansas exports $4 billion of
products to Canada and Mexico each
year—$800 million from agriculture
alone. It is nearly impossible for me to
overstate the importance of this trade
deal to my home State of Kansas. We
are not going to experience price recov-
ery in farm country because of the sup-
ply-demand situation worldwide, and
we are in a lot of trouble in farm coun-
try. The least we could do is consider
USMCA, where we know we have the
votes to pass it in both Chambers, both
in the House and the Senate.
In fact, the call for Congress to get
moving on this trade deal has united
more people from different political
and professional backgrounds than al-
most any other issue in recent mem-
ory, including organized labor. I re-
cently started a web series, if you will,
‘‘Trade Tuesday,’’ to give a platform to
the many constituents who have voiced
their support to me by saying: ‘‘Pat,
where on Earth is the UMSCA bill?’’
We have featured farmers and manu-
facturers from around Kansas, includ-
ing Rich Felts. Rich Felts is a great
friend of mine, a farmer from South-
east Kansas, and the president of the
Kansas Farm Bureau. Rich hit the nail
right on the head. He said:
We are an exporting State. We produce
much more than we are ever going to con-
sume [in Kansas], and if we want to grow our
economy, specifically our economy in the
State, we have to export the excess com-
modity. I think it is easy to say we want
trade, we don’t want aide, and this is going
to be a step in that direction if we can get
this passed by Congress.
I could not agree more with Rich on
the importance of this trade deal to
farmers and producers in Kansas, but it
is not only the agriculture industry
that is interested in getting USMCA
across the finish line. We have also fea-
tured Jason Cox, the president of Cox
Machine, Inc., a small aerospace com-
pany based in Wichita, KS—typical of
the small business community of my
State. He recently said:
Trade is very important to our business,
both on the raw material supply side as well
as the selling side. This USMCA is important
for us to help lower the cost of raw material
that we buy and pass that savings along to
our customers so we can get more work and
produce more goods [and also jobs].
Look, my colleagues, it has been
nearly a year since President Trump
and the leaders of Mexico and Canada
signed this new trade agreement. It
was November 30, 2018. We are running
out of time to get this deal done for
folks like Rich and Jason and the
many other workers whose livelihoods
depend upon trade.
There are deadlines. If we get past
the deadline, we will go back to the
original NAFTA bill, which—as I look
back in my public career, I was happy
to work with Kika de la Garza, as I
said—the former chairman of the
House Ag Committee, and he helped me
to write NAFTA at that particular
time. As a result, the ag sector has
grown by leaps and bounds in not only
producing enough food and fiber and
other products for our consumers but
also for a troubled and hungry world.
We need this trade agreement. I sin-
cerely hope my friends in the House
can quickly come to an agreement with
the administration so that we can all
do what is right by our constituents
and get this bill passed this year.
I would point out that the ag chair-
man today in the House is COLLIN
PETERSON. He is a veteran. He is a
friend of mine. MIKE CONAWAY is the
ranking member—same thing. They are
for USMCA. It is bipartisan in the Ag
Committee over there.
I would also give a shout-out to Rob-
ert Lighthizer, who is our Ambassador,
who has been meeting constantly day
in and day out—trying to iron out any
labor or environment portions of this
trade agreement where we have some
holdup.
We are not going to go anywhere if
we continue to insist on these kinds of
requirements. You know, these are sov-
ereign countries. These are our neigh-
bors. For us to try to dictate labor
standards and environmental standards
for them is a little much, but I under-
stand that is what we have to do.
I don’t know, here, what more we can
do. I can come to the floor every day.
I can just say that we had 9 Senators
here before. I think we could get a mu-
tual agreement to say: Hey, let’s get
this done. Let’s separate it from all of
the goings-on that are happening in the
House of Representatives today.
I hope Speaker PELOSI—she knows
about this. California depends on this
big time, and, as Speaker of the entire
United States—I am not trying to lec-
ture her or point fingers at her, but she
knows exactly what the situation is. If
she would just send a signal to Ambas-
sador Lighthizer and we would send
that trade pack up and we could get a
vote, I think it would pass overwhelm-
ingly, and at least we would have
something we could claim we are doing
in behalf of our farmers, our ranchers,
our growers, and everybody who is sup-
ported by the agriculture industry.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
PENSIONS
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
come again to speak about what I
think of the inequities and unfairness
in the system that we have to Amer-
ican workers.
American workers, businesses, and
the economy here in the United States
are the envy of the world and have
been for quite some time. Throughout
the history of our country, our citizens
have believed that through hard work
and dedication, they could achieve the
American dream. Unfortunately, that
is not always the case, as we know.
Millions of Americans worked hard,
played by the rules, and trusted the
companies they worked for to keep
their end of the bargain. That bargain
is their pension. These pensions are
modest and what millions of Americans
plan to use when they retire in the twi-
light of their lives.
But for 1.5 million Americans, that
security has been pulled out from
under them. Why, after working hard
for years and forgoing a portion of
their paychecks, which they have in-
vested—this is their money matching
their employers’ for their pension—
have they either lost or gotten their
pensions cut in half? The answer is the
current state of bankruptcy laws.
How does this happen? Every payday,
10.6 million Americans put a portion of
their paycheck into a pension account
with a promise and trust that it will be
there when they retire. These same
people forgo pay raises, bonuses, and
personal retirement accounts because
they believe their pensions will be
there until needed.
Unfortunately, that trust is often
broken when investment firms swoop
in during the bankruptcy process. They
cherry-pick at the remains of a com-
pany, cannibalizing its most lucrative
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.030 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6381
November 5, 2019
assets, therefore putting profits before
the people.
Through no fault of the workers in
America, companies are able to use
their pension money for whatever they
want when they declare bankruptcy.
Just think about that. All your life,
you have been working—20, 30 years or
more—and you thought it was always
secure. All of a sudden, through the
bankruptcy laws, they are able to take
your money and use it for whatever
they want to now because they de-
clared bankruptcy and went through a
procedure.
Under current law, when companies
declare bankruptcy, they have the abil-
ity to use their workers’ pension fund
to give their executives bonuses and
pay legal costs and debt. I am going to
repeat that one. They have the ability
to use the workers’ pension—your
money, workers’ money—to give bo-
nuses to the executives, who should be
held responsible for the company doing
as poorly as it has done to go into
bankruptcy, and pay legal costs and
debt out of money you put in there for
20 years or more.
For the last few decades, investment
firms have manipulated chapter 11 of
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to destroy
union contracts, reduce health bene-
fits, and skirt pension obligations to
maximize profits. Under current law,
investment firms can target companies
through chapter 11 bankruptcy, sell off
all the company’s valuable assets, and
leave the pension plan in a worthless
corporate shell, while paying handsome
bonuses to their executives.
While Congress has sat back and al-
lowed the exploitation that occurs
through bankruptcy, millions of work-
ers and retirees have lost their retire-
ment security. Workers and retirees
did not set the amount each company
contributes to their pension plans, the
terms of the plans, or the loopholes in
the bankruptcy laws. Those actions
were all done right here in the Halls of
Congress. As such, it is now the respon-
sibility and duty of Congress to stop
the financial engineering and close the
loopholes of our Bankruptcy Code.
Let me just talk about one company
that affects my State vastly. Last
week, the largest private coal company
in the United States, Murray Energy,
filed for bankruptcy, making it the
eighth coal company in the past 12
months to do so. Like so many coal
companies before them, they plan to
skirt their pension obligations and use
coal miners’ money to pay off their
debts, give their executives bonuses,
and pay off legal fees. In the bank-
ruptcy filing, they even labeled coal
miners as liabilities.
I don’t know about you, but I don’t
know how any company in good con-
science could ever label their employ-
ees as liabilities. They are the ones
who make the company, but now they
are liabilities. That is why they had to
go into bankruptcy.
Murray Energy has contributed 97
percent of the money going into the
UMWA pension fund annually. With
Murray’s bankruptcy filing, the UMWA
pension fund will become insolvent
even faster. Once the UMWA pension
fund becomes insolvent, this crisis will
snowball and impact every other multi-
employer pension fund in America.
I am going to talk about a couple of
cases here to put it in perspective. I
think everybody will be able to follow
this much easier. I am going to talk
about Sears and Roebuck, which we all
knew growing up. My mother used to
get the catalog way back when, and we
used to do most of our shopping there.
This information that I am giving
you and I am going to explain comes
from a complaint filed by Sears itself
in the Southern District of New York
in January 2019. This is the old Sears
filing against the new Sears—the take-
over Sears. This type of financial engi-
neering and exploitation occurred at
Sears over the past several years.
After merging with Kmart and being
taken over by Eddie Lampert and his
hedge fund, ESL Investments, Sears
started to buy back its own shares in-
stead of investing in its already run-
down stores. Lampert also transferred
235 parcels of Sears’ most valuable real
estate to an investment trust led by
Lampert himself and then leased the
properties back to Sears.
In 2017, Sears paid the investment
trust owned by Mr. Lampert $117 mil-
lion in rent for the use of its former
property. Under Lampert and ESL,
Sears closed over 3,500 stores, slashed
roughly 250,000 jobs, and saw its share
price fall from $193 a share in 2007 to
less than $1. I repeat—$193 a share in
2007 to less than $1 a share.
After filing bankruptcy in 2018, Sears
no longer possessed enough assets to
pay off its creditors—especially its
pension obligation. Now those pensions
are in the hands of the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation, which is Sears’
largest unsecured creditor, and it owes
the PBGC more than $1.5 billion.
Recently, Sears Holdings Corporation
filed a lawsuit against former CEO
Lampert, alleging that he transferred
more than $2 billion of cash and real
estate to himself and other share-
holders in the years leading up to the
retailer’s bankruptcy. That has all
been done under what they consider
legal.
I am going to tell you about one
more. This is Friendly’s. Friendly’s is
an ice cream corporation, and this in-
formation comes from the PBGC’s com-
plaint opposing Friendly’s plan for re-
structuring. I am telling you, this
comes from the Pension Benefit Guar-
anty Corporation, which we run in this
country—the Federal Government—
and they put this complaint against
their restructuring.
The same scheme played out with
them in early 2000. In 2007, Sun Capital
Partners, Inc., a private equity fund,
purchased Friendly’s for $337 million.
Trying to weather the great recession,
Sun forced Friendly’s to close 63 stores
and take a loan from one of the firm’s
affiliate entities. At that point, Sun
Capital was both the owner and major
creditor of Friendly’s. That relation-
ship gave the firm leverage in its bank-
ruptcy to quickly sell much of
Friendly’s assets free and clear of any
pension obligations to one Sun Cap-
ital’s affiliate. At the end of the bank-
ruptcy, most of Friendly’s assets were
owned by Sun Capital affiliate free and
clear of any pension plans. Those un-
funded pension obligations totaled $115
million and are being assumed by you
and I, the taxpayers, through the
PBGC. There is nothing fair about any
of this that I just explained, no matter
how large or how small.
We are talking about righting a
wrong that we have allowed to happen.
Back in the 1980s, when the bankruptcy
laws were changed, I don’t think there
was a Member here who intended for
these type of shenanigans—this type of
robbery and thievery to go on in Amer-
ica. It has happened for far too long,
and we have a chance to change it.
As the bankruptcy laws continue to
allow this type of exploitation to re-
main, there is a low-profile govern-
ment agency that is pivotal to the Fed-
eral Government’s efforts to protect
the pension benefits for thousands of
American workers and retirees. The
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
collects insurance premiums from com-
panies that offer pensions and provides
a portion of the lost benefit to protect
retirees when a pension fund runs out
of money. That is an insurance pro-
gram that the Federal Government has
backed up, and the companies have
paid into that thinking they are going
to be in good standing.
Overall, the PBGC covers benefits for
about 44 million people—44 million
workers. However, the PBGC has come
under tremendous financial pressure as
more and more companies have shed
their pension debts through the Bank-
ruptcy Code. According to PBGC, there
is a 90-percent chance that the union
insurance program will run out of
money by 2025, leaving it unable to pro-
tect pensioners in need. If the exploi-
tation continues and the PBGC is left
holding the check for bankrupt compa-
nies, taxpayers will, for the first time
in history—we taxpayers will, for the
first time in history—be on the hook
for pensions that were evasively dis-
regarded in exchange for investment
company profit—or robbery, actually.
If the PBGC becomes insolvent, tax-
payers will be on the hook—listen to
this figure. We, as taxpayers, will be on
the hook for $479 billion over the next
30 years, if we allow this to continue.
That is why I have introduced legis-
lation that will reform our bankruptcy
laws. It is called the SLAP Act—Stop
Looting American Pensions Act. That
is exactly what we have allowed to
happen for so long. It would ensure
companies can no longer exploit loop-
holes in the Bankruptcy Code to skirt
their pension obligations to workers
and retirees. My bill would change
bankruptcy laws to increase the pri-
ority of workers going into bankruptcy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.032 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6382 November 5, 2019
proceedings so the workers are the first
priority, not the executive bonuses and
legal fees.
What we are doing for the first time
is making sure the wage earner, the
worker, is in the front of the line, not
the back of the line. Right now if a
bankruptcy occurs, I guarantee, all of
the different reorganization groups
that come in, all the different financial
groups will be in the front of the line,
and the workers are left with nothing.
This reverses that procedure.
It is a sad day when American work-
ers across the country pour decades of
their life into a company and are de-
nied their pensions due to corporate
greed.
I keep hearing CEOs talk about cor-
porate responsibility. Well, I am so
thankful to hear those words, ‘‘cor-
porate responsibility.’’ This is a step
toward putting those words into ac-
tion. I would like to see the responsible
corporate heads of American industry
step forward and help us with this
needed change. We have to put our
workers at the front of the line, and I
would like to see that done sooner than
later.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL JEFFERSON S.
BURTON
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I rise to
honor Utah’s valiant citizen, MG Jeff
Burton, adjutant general of the Utah
National Guard, and to pay tribute to
him for his many years of devoted serv-
ice to our Nation and to the great
State of Utah.
As General Burton closes a long
chapter of 37 years of military service,
he leaves behind a tremendous legacy
as an American patriot and as a true
servant-leader. So I would like to take
a moment to talk about General Bur-
ton today.
From a young age, General Burton
knew that he wanted to follow in the
footsteps of a number of his family
members by serving both his faith and
his country. He served a mission for
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints on a Canadian Indian res-
ervation, braving harsh conditions that
would well prepare him for his future
of military service.
As soon as he returned home, he en-
rolled at Brigham Young University,
where he enlisted in the National
Guard as an artillery field soldier. He
joined BYU’s ROTC Program, receiving
a commission as second lieutenant in
1984.
He completed tours with the U.S.
Army Military Police Corps in Ala-
bama; with the 4th Infantry Division at
Fort Carson, CO; and with the 7th U.S.
Corps in Germany, where he witnessed
the fall of the Berlin Wall.
In 1991, General Burton left the Army
and returned home to join the Utah
National Guard, where he served in a
variety of distinguished leadership po-
sitions over the next decade. Chief
among them was a position that in-
volved commanding the 1457th Engi-
neer Combat Battalion during Oper-
ation Iraqi Freedom as part of the ini-
tial ground war in that conflict.
He and his troops were tasked with
searching for and eliminating explosive
devices, improving Embassy security,
and improvising whenever necessary to
strengthen security in and around the
U.S. Embassy, and of course responding
to bombings and other acts of terror.
They were often the first ones on the
scene of an explosion. In honor of his
heroic service there, he was awarded
the Bronze Star.
General Burton was appointed assist-
ant adjutant general of the Utah Na-
tional Guard in 2008, promoted to brig-
adier general just a few months later,
and then made major general and adju-
tant general in 2012. In this role, Gen-
eral Burton has trained and equipped
over 7,000 soldiers under his command
and helped them to prepare to respond
to challenges in both military life and
in their personal lives.
He has prepared them not only to
fight our Nation’s wars and provide
military support to our troops
throughout the world but to combat
wildfires, respond to natural disasters,
and ensure law and order in our com-
munities. Under his leadership, they
have performed at an absolutely re-
markable and, indeed, exceptional cal-
iber.
When the 100,000-soldier surge in Af-
ghanistan ended in 2012, General Bur-
ton was also responsible for overseeing
the needs of the soldiers returning
home from war. He rose to the chal-
lenge, tending to both the physical and
emotional needs of those warriors and
their families with the utmost care. As
he himself has once said, ‘‘May we
make a silent promise to keep the faith
with our battle buddies and wingmen.
. . . May we be strong for one another,
and unashamedly rush to the aid of
those in need. May we remember those
who have suffered grievous physical
wounds in the defense of liberty, and
may we never forget those who have
given the ultimate sacrifice within our
formations so that we might live in
freedom.’’
General Burton has lived by these
words over his long and dedicated ca-
reer. Every day he keeps a note tucked
in the band of his hat. That note con-
tains the list of the soldiers who were
killed in combat or during 9/11 under
his command. He has led by example,
never asking of his soldiers something
that he himself has not done. He has
led in order to serve, striving always to
protect the welfare of his command, of
our country, of the U.S. Constitution,
and of the freedoms it protects.
So it is only fitting that we honor
him today. On behalf of our Nation and
all Utahns, I thank MG Jeff Burton for
the sacrifices he and his family have
made to secure the freedoms we hold
dear. I congratulate him on this occa-
sion and wish him many happy years
ahead with his wife, Charn, and their
children.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
ATTACK IN SONORA, MEXICO
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I now
wish to speak briefly regarding a trag-
edy that occurred just in the last 48
hours—a tragedy that occurred in the
northern Mexican state of Sonora, a
tragedy in which a handful of U.S. citi-
zens—the precise number of victims
still not known—but a number of U.S.
citizens were murdered in cold blood.
This attack was inflicted in a most
gruesome manner and was carried out
against a group which included men,
women, and children.
My thoughts and prayers go out to
the families and loved ones of the vic-
tims. My thoughts and prayers are also
extended to the administration of
President Lopez Obrador in Mexico,
whose inauguration I attended just a
few months ago.
This is a sobering task to have to
identify the source of such a heinous
and barbaric crime. I have every expec-
tation, every hope, and every con-
fidence in those who are assigned on
both sides of the border to investigate
this crime, figure out who did it, and to
bring those responsible to justice.
Mexico is a good neighbor to us. We
have about $1.6 billion or $1.7 billion
every single day that crosses over our
shared southern border. Mexico has
been a good neighbor, a solid trade
partner, and a country with which we
share many interests. It is a country
that desperately needs our prayers
right now and our help and assistance.
It has been publicly reported that
President Trump and his administra-
tion are eager to help President Lopez
Obrador in combating and detecting
whoever was responsible for this hei-
nous crime and bringing them to jus-
tice. I hope and implore the Lopez
Obrador administration to accept
President Trump’s generous offer to
help.
This is not an easy task. If, in fact,
this was an act, as it appears quite pos-
sible to have been, of a Mexican-based
drug cartel, this is a big problem. It is
a big problem either way. These drug
cartels are no small threat to the safe-
ty and security of not only the people
of Mexico but also the people of the
United States.
Think about it. Imagine someone
sees in their next-door neighbor’s back-
yard a poisonous snake—a poisonous
snake that is big and that is headed to-
ward his property. Is that neighbor
going to stop and ignore that snake? In
many circumstances, that neighbor is
going to take action. He might not
wait until his neighbor comes home to
give the go-ahead to take care of that
snake. Why? Because that snake is
headed toward his own backyard where
his own children are playing.
This is not something we can trifle
with. This is a matter of utmost seri-
ousness for the safety and security of
the Mexican people and also the people
of the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.033 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6383
November 5, 2019
I applaud the Lopez Obrador adminis-
tration for its efforts to root out cor-
ruption and to bring justice to the drug
cartels. This brazen attack within the
last 48 hours signals a need to do more.
This is why I am so grateful to Presi-
dent Trump that he was willing to
reach out and offer the assistance that
can be provided by the United States. I
urge President Lopez Obrador to accept
it and to do so very soon.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. CRAMER. Madam President.
First of all, I have never come to the
floor of the Senate—and previously of
the House—as ill-prepared as today,
but I want to follow up on something
my friend from Utah just spoke about,
and that is the attack on the innocent
people in the last 48 hours. When I
learned of it last night, I was stunned.
I just got off the phone a few minutes
ago with the brother and sister of one
of the victims. A young mother, Anita
Miller, was killed along with her four
children. They were in the first SUV
that was shot up and burnt. They were
on their way to Phoenix to pick up
their dad from North Dakota—How-
ard—who was working on an oil rig as
this occurred. I just talked to Howard’s
brother Kenny and his sister Heather.
All of the Millers and the LeBarons
who are victims of this have many,
many family members in North Da-
kota. They have lots of businesses in
the State of North Dakota. They are
hard-working, faithful people.
It was a hard phone call to make.
This was a hard message to deliver.
And I didn’t really know what to de-
liver except that I wanted them to
know that the people of their country
and the United States are hugging the
people of their country, Mexico, and
that what they have experienced is cer-
tainly the personification of evil in the
form of these thugs from this cartel,
for sure. They are people who kill with
reckless abandon. They have no regard
for life, even the life of innocent chil-
dren. But we serve a God who personi-
fies pure good, and the greatest re-
sponse to pure evil is pure good.
Kenny and I had a particularly long
talk regarding his family—what they
are experiencing and what is going on.
They wanted me to know that they
support the United States as well as
their country. They wanted me to tell
the President that they support what
he is doing and appreciate his offer of
help to the Mexican Government.
I told them that there is lots of time
for talking about the response of one
government working with another but
that, right now, grief is sort of the
emotion of the moment, and remem-
bering their loved ones is important,
and we would be doing it as a Congress,
as an administration, as a country, and
as the State of North Dakota, which
embraces these people we know and
love so much. We will do what needs to
be done, and we stand ready, first of
all, to hold them up in prayer and to
share their burden with them.
I wanted to express as much as any-
thing that their burden is ours today
and that, to the degree we can share a
burden like this, we are sharing it. We
will react. We will respond in whatever
way is appropriate and whatever way
we can.
I join Senator LEE in gratitude to
President Trump for his reaching out
and his offer of assistance. It can’t be
easy to live in a country or even to
rule a country where the cartels are so
powerful, where their weapons are as
good as, if not better than, the weapons
of the police and maybe even the mili-
tary. It can’t be easy to stand up to
that, but with good friends and allies
and neighbors, perhaps now, perhaps
this event and perhaps the grief of
these families will be the things that
bring two countries together to fight
this evil.
I will end as I began and look forward
to future days when we speak more
thoroughly about it and there is more
information on it, but to remind per-
haps ourselves as much as anything,
the only effective response to pure evil
is pure love. As people of faith, we
know pure love is personified in our
Lord. So tonight, my message to the
families in Mexico, North Dakota, and
Utah is that we love them. We love
them.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
HEALTHCARE
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
wanted to speak for a few minutes
today to talk a little bit about rural
healthcare and to ask my colleagues
for help in protecting the 20 percent of
Americans who live in rural areas who
are in danger of losing—or may have
lost entirely—access to healthcare in
their communities.
Since 2010, 118 rural hospitals have
shut their doors. Fourteen of those fa-
cilities are in my State of Tennessee.
Medical practitioners are paying atten-
tion to this trend and, more often than
not, choose stability in the cities and
suburbs over the uphill battle that
comes with practicing medicine with-
out access to the funding and modern
resources many clinics now take for
granted. As a result, rural patients are
left to suffer through illnesses or emer-
gencies or sacrifice time, money, and
mileage for even the chance of a diag-
nosis. This system is broken, but this
year, I have been able, by working with
my colleagues on each side of the aisle,
to kind of pick up the pieces around
this.
I have a three-bill rural health agen-
da, which comes at the direct request
of smalltown mayors and local leaders
who are struggling in my State to keep
these communities afloat. Last week,
my fellow Tennesseans, Congressmen
KUSTOFF and ROE, introduced House
companions to all three pieces of legis-
lation.
I will tell you, I have been talking to
Tennesseans, and they want my col-
leagues in the Senate to know what we
should do about this issue. If you have
never lived in a rural area, hearing
someone talk about driving 20 or 30
minutes to the nearest doctor probably
really doesn’t seem like a problem to
you. But in the country, 30 minutes
away translates into miles of driving
through isolated areas. Chances are
good that you will not even have cell
service for part of that drive. There are
no EMTs or rapid response teams. And
if there is a local doctor, he or she may
not have any specialized expertise,
which could spell disaster for patients
dealing with a complicated diagnosis.
The first component of the agenda is
the Telehealth Across State Lines Act,
which would lead to the creation of
uniform, national best practices for the
provision of telemedicine across State
lines and set up a grant program to ex-
pand existing telehealth programs and
incentivize the adoption of telehealth
by Medicare and Medicaid Programs.
But implementation of telehealth will
not eliminate the need for face-to-face
interactions between patients and doc-
tors.
This leads us to another problem.
Rural communities keep themselves
afloat on strapped budgets, which
means that plans to open as much as a
bare-bones urgent care facility can be
derailed by all the startup costs. The
Rural Health Innovation Act—the sec-
ond part of the agenda—features two
grant programs. The first one will fund
the expansion of existing healthcare
centers—such as local nursing homes—
into urgent care walk-in clinics. Facili-
ties will be able to use grant money to
purchase equipment, hire physicians,
physician assistants, nurse practi-
tioners, and other essential staff.
A second grant program will expand
rural health departments to meet ur-
gent care and triage needs. This is
using programs that already exist, tai-
loring them to the needs of rural Amer-
ica.
Of course, this points out the third
issue: Expanded facilities are useless if
there are no medical personnel. I have
been working on this problem with my
friend from Illinois, Senator DURBIN,
and he spoke about this on the floor a
few minutes ago. We recognized from
the beginning that throwing money
and equipment at an updated facility
will not convince medical professionals
to establish a rural practice, so we
wrote the Rural America Health Corps
Act to encourage practitioners to set
up shop in rural areas. The bill creates
a new student loan repayment program
that doctors and other medical profes-
sionals can take advantage of. In ex-
change for those loan payments, they
will have to agree to serve for at least
5 years in a rural area with a health
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.034 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6384 November 5, 2019
professional shortage, but the benefit
comes tax-free.
I have spoken to rural communities
all across my State. I know Senator
DURBIN has talked across the State of
Illinois. I will tell you that these bills
don’t simply address a matter of con-
venience. My fellow Tennesseans want
my colleagues to know they aren’t just
frustrated with the long drives and un-
answered questions. They are worried
that their child’s cough will turn into
pneumonia before they are allowed a
full day off from work to drive to a pe-
diatrician. They have no idea what
they would do if they were diagnosed
with an illness that requires contin-
uous care.
They do, however, know what would
probably happen if someone they love
suffered a heart attack or had another
major emergency. They are very fear-
ful.
If these bills pass, they will no longer
have to live with the knowledge that
they have been abandoned by our
healthcare system. They will have ac-
cess to healthcare in their commu-
nities.
I ask my colleagues to let these peo-
ple know that yes, indeed, somebody is
listening, and I ask them to do so by
cosponsoring Senate bills 2406, 2408,
and 2411.
I yield the floor.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that if the
Tapp nomination is confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays are ordered.
All time has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Tapp nomina-
tion?
The yeas and nays were previously
ordered.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 85,
nays 8, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 344 Ex.]
YEAS—85
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—8
Gillibrand
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Schatz
Schumer
Stabenow
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table and the President will
be notified of the Senate’s action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior legislative clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
John Thune, Thom Tillis, Chuck Grass-
ley, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, Mike Rounds, Lindsey
Graham, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Boozman, Tom Cotton, John Cornyn,
Joni Ernst, Roy Blunt, Roger F.
Wicker, Jerry Moran, Mitch McCon-
nell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior legislative clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. (Ms.
MCSALLY). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 75,
nays 18, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 345 Ex.]
YEAS—75
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Capito
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—18
Blumenthal
Cantwell
Cardin
Duckworth
Durbin
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Reed
Schatz
Schumer
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 75, the nays are 18.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Danielle J.
Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
HEALTHCARE
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Thank you,
Madam President.
This weekend, thousands of Ten-
nesseans and, of course, millions across
this Nation are going to pause and give
thanks for our veterans. Quite frankly,
this is something we should be doing
every single day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.036 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6385
November 5, 2019
I am just amazed and so grateful that
there are men and women, like the Pre-
siding Officer, who have worn the uni-
form and who have served—brave men
and women who wake up every day in
some of the most dangerous places on
the face of the Earth and do a job that
would bring many of us to our knees.
We look at this and say it is basically
impossible.
When our veterans have done their
part and come home, they find them-
selves facing another set of struggles.
The challenges the veterans face are
well documented, and we hear about
them: long waits and long lines at VA
hospitals and clinics, long recoveries
from battle wounds that they have suf-
fered, and severe emotional and mental
health struggles that, if left untreated,
could end in tragedy. There are sys-
tems in place to help our returning he-
roes. We just need to be using these
correctly.
Earlier this year, the VA OIG—Office
of Inspector General—released a report
showing that the agency’s system for
keeping track of controlled prescrip-
tions had almost entirely broken down.
Think about that. We are in the middle
of an opioid crisis in this country.
There is a system in place, but the
VA’s system for keeping track of all of
these prescriptions had almost entirely
broken down. This is truly unaccept-
able.
Pretty much what is happening is
this: The State-operated prescription
drug monitoring program—or PDMP—
contains valuable information about
what drugs veterans are being pre-
scribed outside of the VA healthcare
system. VA clinicians are supposed to
check this database before prescribing
opioid-based and other controlled
medications to make sure their pa-
tients—that patient in front of them,
that veteran in front of them—are not
receiving too many pills from multiple
sources.
Get this. That Office of Inspector
General report—the OIG report—
showed that 73 percent of our VA pa-
tients who were prescribed opioids
walked out of the pharmacy, medica-
tion in hand, without a VA clinician
ever having performed the minimum
required checks. So the system is
there. It could be utilized, but what
happens? The clinician gives the pre-
scription but never checks the data-
base in 73 percent of the cases.
This failure to follow through puts 19
percent of those patients at risk for
problems with their care coordination,
and almost half of those VA patients
were under long-term care for chronic
pain and were at a higher risk for
opioid-use disorder and overdose.
We hear about these reports time and
again, and we say: How in the world
could this possibly happen? How could
this be acceptable? It is not.
We look at how it has happened, and
here is what we found out. It happened
because the VA didn’t make the rules
clear enough.
Get this. Officials highly rec-
ommended that clinicians submit a
PDMP query, but they didn’t explicitly
state that it was required under exist-
ing VHA directives, and there were no
national oversight controls to act as a
backstop. So the rule is there, but a
bureaucrat, a clinician, says: Well,
they recommend it, but it is not re-
quired, so I will skirt that.
Along with their report, the OIG
handed the VA a laundry list of rec-
ommendations, including directives to
develop national oversight programs,
better train their clinicians—that one
should be an imperative—and embed
accountability checks into the tech-
nology used to track patient care. VA
officials have submitted now-approved
corrective action plans, and we thank
the VA Secretary for this. It is our job
to make sure that they do follow
through with this.
The lack of organization that turned
VA clinics into unwitting pill pushers
has made it almost impossible for vet-
erans to seek help during times of men-
tal and emotional distress.
In September, the VA published a re-
port that confirmed our worst fears. As
of 2017, there has been no significant
change in veteran suicide rates. In 2017,
the suicide rate for veterans in Ten-
nessee hit 32.6 percent, which is signifi-
cantly higher than the overall national
suicide rate. It will take more than 1
day of recognition to fix this. It is
going to take commitment and an all-
hands-on-deck approach.
I am an original cosponsor of the Im-
prove Well-Being for Veterans Act,
which will help vets connect to the
over 50,000 existing suicide prevention
programs that are ready and waiting to
be helpful. The bill will also give regu-
lators a tool to measure how effective
these programs are. It is a good start,
but it is not enough.
Earlier this year, President Trump
launched the PREVENTS Initiative,
and we thank him for this attention to
the needs of our veterans. PREVENTS
establishes a cabinet-level task force
responsible for finding the root causes
of disconnect between veterans and
helpful services from the VA and pri-
vate organizations. Their job is to de-
velop a strategy for Federal, State, and
community leaders to engage with vet-
erans, improve research and access to
resources, and work from the ground
up to prevent suicide.
Here is the caveat: This will work
only if we remain in constant contact
with veterans back home and use those
interactions to find the cracks that
veterans continue to fall through.
For years, we have listened to frus-
trated complaints from agency officials
insisting that untangling the VA’s pro-
cedural knots is an exercise in futility.
Sometimes you hear: Well, it just can’t
be done. We do things this way because
we have always done things this way.
That is not necessarily true. We do
them because oversight has not been
exercised.
It is time for all of us—not just law-
makers and rulemakers—to finally ac-
cept that ‘‘honoring their service’’—
honoring the service of these heroes—
means helping these heroes heal when
they need it and not leaving them at
the mercy of a broken and bloated bu-
reaucracy.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the cloture votes
on the Rudofsky and Wilson nomina-
tions occur at 12 noon on Wednesday,
November 6. I further ask unanimous
consent that the confirmation vote on
the Hunsaker nomination occur at 4
p.m. on Wednesday, November 6, and
that following the disposition of the
Hunsaker nomination, the Senate vote
on the motion to invoke cloture on the
Nardini nomination. Finally, I ask
unanimous consent that if cloture is
invoked on the Rudofsky, Wilson, and
Nardini nominations, that the con-
firmation votes occur at a time to be
determined by the majority leader in
consultation with the Democratic lead-
er on Thursday, November 7.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO DAN MCDANIEL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
this upcoming Veterans Day gives
every American the opportunity to
pause and pay tribute to the many sac-
rifices of those men and women who
served in our Armed Forces. Out of de-
votion to this country and our values,
these brave servicemembers made the
world a safer place. It is a sincere privi-
lege to extend my gratitude to each
and every one of them.
I am especially proud to recognize
the nearly 300,000 American veterans
who call Kentucky home. After their
military service, many of these Ken-
tuckians came home and continued
selflessly giving to their communities
and our Nation. In particular, I would
like to pay tribute to a special Ken-
tucky veteran today, Dan McDaniel of
Kenton County. Six days after he grad-
uated from the University of Kentucky
in 1972, Dan became one of the final
draftees his community sent into the
Army during the Vietnam war. Fol-
lowing his basic training, Dan was sent
with his wife, Linda, to Augsburg, Ger-
many, as a field artillery crewman. He
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.041 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6386 November 5, 2019
served there until he received an hon-
orable discharge that brought the cou-
ple home to Kenton County.
Using his degree in social studies,
Dan taught history for a short time in
Northern Kentucky. Then, a few years
later, Dan and his brother Mike started
a small concrete company out of their
basements. For nearly four decades,
Mike and Dan grew their business and
earned respect in Northern Kentucky
and the greater region as full service
concrete contractors. In 2008, the
brothers sold their business to Dan’s
son, Chris, who runs the company to
this day.
The family business isn’t the only
way Chris has followed his father’s
footsteps, however. After graduating
from The Citadel, Chris served 4 years
in the Army as an infantry officer.
Today, he is continuing to serve the
Bluegrass State as a prominent mem-
ber of the Kentucky State Senate. Like
so many veterans, both Dan and Chris
continue to make lasting contributions
to their community, our Common-
wealth, and this great Nation.
So, on this Veterans Day, I am grate-
ful to all those who served our country
in uniform. Our Commonwealth is
made safer because of their service and
stronger because of their example. To
Dan and Chris McDaniel, all Kentucky
veterans, and their families, it is an
honor to say thank you.
f
TRIBUTE TO KATHLEEN OTT
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
want to recognize Kathleen ‘‘Kathy’’
Ott, who recently retired from her role
as the Director of the Library of Con-
gress’ Congressional Relations Office
after 11 years of dedicated service to
the Library and to Congress.
Appointed in 2008 by former Librar-
ian of Congress, Dr. James Billington,
Kathy was sought after by the Library
for her extensive experience inter-
facing with Congress from both the
public and private sectors. As the di-
rector of the Library’s Congressional
Relations Office, she spent more than a
decade of her career building strong bi-
partisan relationships between the Li-
brary, Congress, and congressional
staff.
Kathy has had the privilege of serv-
ing two Librarians of Congress, Dr.
James Billington and Dr. Carla D. Hay-
den. Kathy was instrumental in sup-
porting Dr. Hayden’s confirmation
process. With the help of Kathy’s tire-
less effort throughout the nomination
process, Dr. Hayden was overwhelm-
ingly confirmed in a bipartisan fashion
by the Senate during the 114th Con-
gress.
In her time at the Library, Kathy has
shaped the Library’s relationship with
Congress through 3 Presidential admin-
istrations, 6 Congresses, and 11 budget
and appropriations cycles, building bi-
partisan support for Library of Con-
gress initiatives along the way. Addi-
tionally, she worked with 10 different
chairs of the Senate Rules and Admin-
istration Committee and House Admin-
istration Committee. As a member of
the Senate Rules and Administration
Committee, I always appreciated
Kathy’s thorough and dutiful commit-
ment to her role, the Library, and Con-
gress.
During her tenure, Kathy has wel-
comed nearly 500 new Members of Con-
gress during their freshman orienta-
tion activities hosted at the Library.
She also created the bipartisan Library
of Congress Caucus in the 111th Con-
gress, which currently has 84 Rep-
resentatives. Moreover, she helped to
coordinate the congressional participa-
tion in the award of the Library’s
Gershwin Prize for Popular Song to the
likes of Sir Paul McCartney, Billy
Joel, Smokey Robinson, as well as
other noteworthy musical artists.
In her position, Kathy also played an
integral role in the launch of the Li-
brary’s popular Congressional Dialogue
Dinner Series in 2013, which has just
concluded its 45th dinner. Marcelle and
I have had the pleasure of enjoying
many wonderful nights at the Library
attending these delightful dinners and
discussions.
Marcelle and I have had so many
wonderful experiences with Kathy. I
have to mention one especially. When
Pope Francis came to speak to a joint
meeting of Congress, Kathy had ar-
ranged to have a special Bible from the
Library’s collection available to be
blessed by the Pope. She knew the
Pope would bless it, so she arranged to
have with it several religious medals
and other things important to her and
her family available to be a part of the
blessing. I know the Pope didn’t mind,
and those of us there thought, ‘‘This is
why we think the world of her.’’
Kathy has always been known as a
reliable and trusted source for Library
of Congress information. She will be
greatly missed by Members of Congress
and congressional staff alike. Marcelle
and I wish Kathy the best in retire-
ment.
f
BAT WEEK
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, in the
midst of fall celebrations such as Hal-
loween or, for fans in Washington and
Houston, the World Series, I want to
take a moment to highlight another
important annual celebration that oc-
curred last week: Bat Week.
It is fitting that last week, the Sen-
ate approved an appropriations bill to
fund the Fish and Wildlife Service. At
this time each year, we join our friends
at the Fish and Wildlife Service, con-
servation groups around the world, and
bat enthusiasts to recognize the irre-
placeable role of bats and to highlight
our urgent fight to protect them.
Many do not know the profound im-
pact that bats have on our environ-
ment and our economy. For an agricul-
tural state like Vermont, bats are vital
to both our ecosystem and our econ-
omy. They control pests, pollinate
crops, and even spread seeds. Some
farmers would consider bats among
their best friends. For years, I have
worked on the Appropriations Com-
mittee to prioritize funding for habitat
conservation and to stop the spread of
white-nose syndrome. I am proud that
the fiscal year 2020 Interior bill once
again responds to the call of the bat
signal and provides more than $7 mil-
lion to combat white-nose, a disease
that has devastated bat communities
across the country.
So once again I hope Senators will
join me in recognizing the importance
of bat and keep the advocacy behind
Bat Week going throughout the year.
f
RECOGNIZING VERMONT’S MAPLE
INDUSTRY
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President,
Vermont sets the gold standard for the
maple industry, and maple is integral
to our State’s economy and to our
State’s identity. The Vermont families
and businesses that keep this sector vi-
brant and viable are also an essential
part of the fabric of our State. I am
proud to recognize one of those busi-
nesses today. Nestled along the west-
ern slopes of Vermont’s highest peak,
Mount Mansfield, Runamok Maple is
one of the roughly 1500 sugar producers
in Vermont that produce nearly half of
the Nation’s maple syrup. Owned and
operated by Laura and Eric Sorkin,
Runamok Maple exemplifies the inno-
vation and entrepreneurship that is re-
vitalizing communities across
Vermont.
Maple sugaring is a tradition carried
forward and refined by each new gen-
eration of Vermonters. The Sorkins
themselves benefited from the
mentorship of nearby sugar producers
before launching their own business a
decade ago. In 2016, recognizing an op-
portunity, they pumped money and en-
ergy into a diversification effort that
included a retail line of flavor-infused
and barrel-aged syrups, all packaged
and branded for the direct sales mar-
ket. Two years later, I was proud to
support funding for the Northern Bor-
der Regional Commission that in turn
allowed Fairfax, VT, to expand waste-
water infrastructure to Runamok’s
new manufacturing home, an old facil-
ity that once manufactured Scrabble
game tiles. The improvements enabled
Runamok’s expansion from 45 to 100
employees and revitalized a part of the
historic town.
Through their products, writings, and
creativity, the Sorkins and their out-
standing staff are not only producing
world-class value-added products, they
are changing how people think about
maple syrup. Long gone are the days
when it was considered a mere con-
diment for pancakes. I was not sur-
prised, then, to see Runamok Maple
featured in a recent Washington Post
article about the many possibilities of
Vermont’s sweetest export.
In recognition of the families across
our State who continue to keep this
bedrock Vermont sector thriving, I ask
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.005 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6387
November 5, 2019
unanimous consent to have that article
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD as follows:
[From the Washington Post, Sept. 2, 2019]
BEFORE YOU POUR ALL THAT MAPLE SYRUP
ON YOUR PANCAKES, HERE’S WHAT YOU
SHOULD KNOW ABOUT IT
(By Becky Krystal)
It’s fall, so you can take your pumpkin
spice and . . . enjoy it in your deodorant,
candles, lattes and, well, seemingly every-
thing. Me? When I think of fall flavors, I
think about maple syrup. It is actually a bit
odd when you consider that spring is the sea-
son when producers collect and cook down
the sap from the maple trees. Still, I’m going
to stick with my convictions, because maple
syrup to me evokes New England and flannel
and colorful foliage, all of which are the es-
sence of fall.
And no, it’s not just sweet. ‘‘Maple syrup is
a lot more complex than sugar,’’ says Laura
Sorkin, who owns Vermont-based Runamok
Maple with her husband, Eric. ‘‘There’s a lot
more nuance than what you would get with
granulated sugar.’’ The flavor can vary de-
pending on the time of year, but Sorkin says
toffee, caramel, honey and apple are among
the notes she can pick out. There’s also a
balance of sweetness and acidity.
We’ve all poured maple syrup over our pan-
cakes and waffles. Maybe even a little too
much—that stuff is $$$! Here’s what you need
to know about how to better understand, ap-
preciate and use that liquid gold. (Sorry,
Mimi.)
The grades. In 2015, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture updated its maple grades to
come into line with standards already adopt-
ed by several states and Canada. One of the
goals with the new grades was to give con-
sumers better descriptors of flavor and color,
as well as allow some of the very dark syrup
previously classified as B grade to be folded
into the A grade, providing easier access for
home cooks. Sorkin says it’s worth keeping
in mind that the strength of flavor does not
always occur in a smooth progression along
with color, as you can get a lighter-colored
syrup with an intense taste and a darker
that’s milder.
Still, here is the rundown of how the gov-
ernment describes the grades aimed at indi-
vidual buyers (there is a processing grade
that can be used by manufacturers making
other products), ordered from least to most
intense, as well as early to late season:
Grade A, golden color/delicate flavor:
‘‘Mild maple taste,’’ according to the USDA.
You might know this from its previous
grade, Fancy. The Vermont Maple Sugar
Makers’ Association suggests serving this
grade with the expected breakfast fare or
rich dairy, such as ice cream or yogurt.
Grade A, amber color/rich flavor: ‘‘A full-
bodied maple taste of medium intensity,’’
the USDA says. If you choose only one grade,
Sorkin says, it should be this one. It’s great
on waffles and pancakes, but the Vermont
association also recommends it for salad
dressings, cocktails and barbecue sauce.
Grade A, dark color/robust flavor: The
USDA is less helpful on the last two grades,
explaining that this grade has a stronger
taste than the lighter colors. You don’t say.
Anyway, our friends from Vermont like to
take advantage of its hearty flavor by pour-
ing it over baked fruit and vegetables and
using it as a glaze for meat and vegetables.
It can also shine in baking.
Grade A, very dark/strong flavor: You
guessed it—‘‘a maple taste that is stronger
than robust.’’ Okay then! What say you,
Vermont? ‘‘When you need a strong maple
flavor in a bread or cookie, ice cream, or bar-
becue sauce, this is the grade of choice.’’
Storage. Keep unopened maple syrup in a
cool, dry spot, out of direct light. The
Vermont Maple Sugar Makers’ Association
recommends storing opened maple syrup in
the refrigerator. Or to keep it in very good
shape, you can freeze it, going through as
many freezing and thawing cycles as you
want, the group says, as long as you let it
thaw completely and stir in any condensa-
tion that forms on the top of the syrup.
Even when properly stored, maple syrup
can crystallize. In ‘‘The Clever Cook’s Kitch-
en Handbook: 5,037 Ingenious Hints, Secrets,
Shortcuts, and Solutions,’’ author David
Joachim suggests heating the jar of syrup in
a pan of hot water over low heat until the
crystals dissolve. (Move the syrup to a glass
jar or heatproof bowl if it’s in plastic.) Or,
try microwaving it for 10 to 15 seconds on
medium power. Of course, you can consider
it candy and just eat the crystals, too.
Joachim says you can salvage moldy maple
syrup by scraping or straining out the mold
and bringing the syrup to a full boil and re-
turning it to a clean jar or bottle.
Substituting. ‘‘Maple syrup is about as
sweet as sugar, so you can replace it using an
equal amount of syrup,’’ according to the
Vermont-based experts at King Arthur
Flour. ‘‘Decrease the liquid by 3 to 4 table-
spoons per 1 cup substitution.’’ If you’re add-
ing maple syrup to a recipe that doesn’t call
for liquid, you need to increase the flour by
1 tablespoon for every 1⁄4 cup maple syrup
used. KAF emphasizes using room tempera-
ture maple syrup, because if it’s cold, it can
cause other ingredients, including butter, to
clump. If you use a darker grade, expect a
‘‘delightfully caramelly’’ flavor.
Flavoring your own. Runamok’s eclectic
infused syrups include such flavors as hibis-
cus, makrut lime-leaf, smoked chile pepper
and ginger. (Here’s a link to a coffee syrup in
our archives.) If you’re interested in creating
your own infusions, especially with whole
spices, Sorkin suggests gently heating the
syrup and letting the ingredients steep for a
few hours. Taste every so often to see wheth-
er you’ve achieved the right level of flavor.
Keep in mind that it’s better to be conserv-
ative than add too much or steep too long.
Uses. ‘‘I would just love it if people would
start thinking beyond pancakes,’’ Sorkin
says. She notes that honey has really come
into its own as an ingredient to be appre-
ciated and used in a variety of ways and
hopes the time will come soon for maple
syrup. Maple syrup on a cheese board? Go for
it! In Vermont, people have been putting
maple syrup in their coffee for a long time,
and Sorkin says it works in tea, too, particu-
larly a black variety (try it in chai). She is,
as you would expect, a proponent of maple
syrup in cocktails.
Sorkin says maple syrup can be lost in
flour-heavy baked goods, so she prefers to
save it for situations when it can really
shine, such as in frostings (buttercream or
cream cheese), glazes and a simple syrup ap-
plied to a cake. It can be used in a wide vari-
ety of savory applications, too, adding just
the right balance when played against other
flavors. Sorkin, who trained at the French
Culinary Institute in New York (now the
International Culinary Center), likes to add
a drizzle on top of a sweet potato and tahini
dip. Her other recipes include maple vinai-
grettes, roasted cabbage and crispy tofu. Al-
ways worth considering: Maple butter.
Need some more ideas? Here are a few con-
tenders from our archives:
Frozen Maple Mousse. This is very much
like a no-chum ice cream, which you can
drizzle with a bit more maple syrup, natu-
rally.
Maple Olive Oil Pecan Granola. Here’s an-
other way to incorporate maple syrup into
your breakfast that does not involve pan-
cakes or waffles.
Maple Spiced Glazed Nuts. These are defi-
nitely worth adding to your party food rep-
ertoire—they make an ideal game-day snack.
Grilled Maple-Marinated Portobello Mush-
rooms. Maple syrup is paired with soy sauce
and earthy mushrooms for an umami-rich
meatless main.
Maple-Chipotle Basting Sauce. Consider
using a darker grade for this sauce, which is
right at home on pork or any other grilled
meat.
f
RECOGNIZING VERMONT’S AWARD-
WINNING CHEESEMAKERS
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President. ear-
lier this year, Vermonters who are ex-
panding and elevating one of
Vermont’s most honored products—
cheese—were recognized with a record
number of ribbons at the American
Cheese Society’s 36th Annual Awards
competition in Richmond, VA. I am de-
lighted, though not surprised, that a
total of 44 Vermont cheeses won
awards, including 5 that were finalists
for Best of Show. Many of these
cheeses are featured every year at our
annual Taste of Vermont, held here on
Capitol Hill each May.
Vermont’s talented Vermont
cheesemakers have brought home top
awards from this competition each
year, but never before has the State
been a winner across so many cat-
egories. Despite its small size, Vermont
was in the top three States for the
number of awards earned—a significant
accomplishment for this bedrock sec-
tor in our State.
The winners came from every corner
of Vermont, every scale of production,
and for many varieties of cheese. Large
producers, like the Cabot Creamery Co-
operative, which represents hundreds
of farm families, came home as win-
ners. So, too, did small operations like
Barn First Creamery, which is home to
just 32 goats and 2 farmer-
cheesemakers. This contrast and di-
verse success is a fitting illustration of
Vermont’s agricultural landscape.
The Vermont Cheese Council helped
to support the Vermont cheesemakers
involved in the American Cheese Soci-
ety’s competition by providing tech-
nical assistance and marketing sup-
port. This council’s foundational role is
to help produce and advance Vermont-
made cheese. The success of Vermont
cheesemakers at this year’s American
Cheese Society’s Annual Awards is just
the latest testament to its effective-
ness. Similar to the American Cheese
Society, the Vermont Cheese Council
provides the public and food profes-
sionals with educational events to
learn more about cheese and cheese
making throughout the State.
Cheese is a staple for Vermont agri-
culture and value added production,
with over 45 cheesemakers—the most
per capita of any State—throughout
Vermont working with sheep, goats,
and multiple cow breeds, to produce
world-class artisanal cheese. The
State’s Department of Tourism and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.008 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6388 November 5, 2019
Marketing provides visitors with a map
of the Vermont Cheese Trail created by
the Vermont Cheese Council. It fea-
tures locations where visitors can expe-
rience over 150 varieties of cheeses.
Great cheese requires great dairy farm-
ers, and both are fundamental to our
State’s economy and tradition.
I am proud to celebrate the success of
all the cheese producers throughout
my home State of Vermont and want
now to recognize the Vermont
cheesemakers receiving awards from
this year’s American Cheese Council.
They include Barn First Creamery,
Westfield; Boston Post Dairy, Enosburg
Falls; Cabot Creamery Cooperative,
Cabot; Fairy Tale Farm, Bridport;
Grafton Village Cheese Company, Graf-
ton; Jasper Hill Farm, Greensboro;
Maplebrook Farm, Bennington; Mt.
Mansfield Creamery, Morrisville; Par-
ish Hill Creamery, West Westminster;
Sage Farm Goat Dairy, Stowe; Spring
Brook Farm/Farms for City Kids Foun-
dation, Reading; Vermont Creamery,
Websterville; Vermont Farmstead
Cheese Company, Woodstock; Vermont
Shepherd, Putney; and Von Trapp
Farmstead, Waitsfield.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, I
was absent but had I been present, I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 234, the motion to invoke cloture
on Executive Calendar No. 119, Michael
T. Liburdi to be U.S. District Judge for
the District of Arizona.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 235, the motion to invoke cloture
on Executive Calendar No. 120, Peter D.
Welte to be U.S. District Judge for the
District of North Dakota.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 236 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 119, Michael T. Liburdi to
be U.S. District Judge for the District
of Arizona.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 237, the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 120, Peter D. Welte to be
U.S. District Judge for the District of
North Dakota.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 238 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 203, James
Wesley Hendrix to be U.S. District
Judge for the Northern District of
Texas.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 239 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 203, James Wesley
Hendrix to be U.S. District Judge for
the Northern District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 240 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 204, Sean D.
Jordan to be U.S. District Judge for
the Eastern District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 241 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 204, Sean D. Jordan to be
U.S. District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 242 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 205, Mark T.
Pittman to be U.S. District Judge for
the Northern District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 243 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 231, Jeffery
Vincent Brown to be U.S. District
Judge for the Southern District of
Texas.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 244 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 232, Brantley
Starr to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Texas.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 245 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 233, Stephanie
L. Haines to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Penn-
sylvania.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 247 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 327, Steven D.
Grimberg to be U.S. District Judge for
the Northern District of Georgia.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 248 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 345, Jason K.
Pulliam to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of
Texas.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 249 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 350, Martha
Maria Pacold to be U.S. District Judge
for the Northern District of Illinois.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 250 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 352, Steven C.
Seeger to be U.S. District Judge for the
Northern District of Illinois.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 251 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 364, William
Shaw Stickman IV to be U.S. District
Judge for the Western District of Penn-
sylvania.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 253 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 205, Mark T. Pittman to
be U.S. District Judge for the Northern
District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 254 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 231, Jeffrey Vincent
Brown to be U.S. District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 255 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 232, Brantley Starr to be
U.S. District Judge for the Northern
District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 256 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 345, Jason K. Pulliam to
be U.S. District Judge for the Western
District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 257 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 350, Martha Maria Pacold
to be U.S. District Judge for the North-
ern District of Illinois.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 258 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 364, William Shaw Stick-
man IV to be U.S. District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 276 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 233, Stephanie Haines to
be U.S. District Judge for the Western
District of Pennsylvania.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 278 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 327, Steven D. Grimberg
to be U.S. District Judge for the North-
ern District of Illinois.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 279 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 352, Steven C. Seeger to
be U.S. District Judge for the Northern
District of Illinois.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 315 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 359, Frank Wil-
liam Volk, of West Virginia, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of West Virginia.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 316 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 363, Charles R.
Eskridge III, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of Texas.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 317 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 328, David John
Novak, of Virginia, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of Virginia.
I was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 318 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 348, Rachel P.
Kovner to be U.S. District Judge for
the Eastern District of New York.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 320 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 359, Frank William Volk,
of West Virginia, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of West Virginia.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 321 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 363, Charles R. Eskridge
III, of Texas, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of
Texas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.011 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6389
November 5, 2019
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 322 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 328, David John Novak, of
Virginia, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Vir-
ginia.
I was absent but had I been present,
I would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 323 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 348, Rachel P. Kovner to
be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern
District of New York.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO RANDY VEACH
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam President, I
rise today to recognize Arkansas Farm
Bureau President Randy Veach for his
years of dedication to Natural State
farm families and rural communities
and celebrate his leadership, advocacy,
and passion for agriculture as his serv-
ice as president comes to a close.
As a third-generation farmer, Randy
has made advocating for the rural way
of life his calling. He grew up on his
family’s farm in the community of
Lost Cane in Mississippi County. He
continues farming on that land with
his wife Thelma where they grow cot-
ton, soybeans, rice, wheat, corn, and
milo.
His commitment to the industry has
extended beyond his own fields. For
decades, Randy has been a voice for Ar-
kansas agriculture producers, working
to develop policies that benefit farm-
ers. He has served in a number of lead-
ership positions at the local level up to
the national level. He is a member of
the American Farm Bureau board of di-
rectors, and in 2015, he was appointed
to the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture’s Trade Advisory Committee
for Tobacco, Cotton, and Peanuts.
For 11 years, Randy has been at the
helm of Arkansas Farm Bureau where
he worked to advance the priorities of
farmers and ranchers. As a member of
the Senate Agriculture Committee, I
have been blessed to have Randy’s
knowledge, experience, and insight to
help craft farm bills and ag policy that
support Arkansas’ agricultural indus-
try and strengthen rural communities
throughout our state.
I am grateful for the friendship we
have built, for his advice, and most im-
portantly, his service on behalf of our
State’s farmers and ranchers. Although
his time as president is ending, I know
his advocacy for agriculture will con-
tinue.
I wish Randy and Thelma much hap-
piness in this next chapter of their
lives.∑
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NE-
VADA FARM BUREAU FEDERA-
TION
∑ Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, I come forward today to recog-
nize the 100th anniversary of the Ne-
vada Farm Bureau Federation. Found-
ed in 1919, the Nevada Farm Bureau
Federation has been a strong voice for
Nevada’s farmers and ranchers. Unbe-
knownst to many, Nevada is home to
some of the largest agricultural oper-
ations in the Nation, and over the past
100 years, the Nevada Farm Bureau
Federation has provided a reliable and
steady source of advocacy for the agri-
cultural community in the Silver
State.
On February 25, 1919, Assemblyman
Care C. Tidd of Smith, NV, introduced
Nevada Assembly Bill 110 in the Ne-
vada Legislature. The purpose of the
bill was to provide for cooperative agri-
cultural and home economics extension
work in several counties in accordance
with the Smith-Lever Act and provide
for the organization of county farm bu-
reaus. Following formation of an au-
thorized county farm bureau, the bill
directed that bureau as the official
body within county for carrying on ex-
tension work in agriculture and home
economics in cooperation with the Co-
operative Services Program and the
Land-Grant University System. The
first Nevada Farm Bureau office was
founded in Lyon County.
Over the course of the past century,
the Nevada Farm Bureau Federation
has evolved from its original form into
a private nonprofit organization and
strong advocate for the State’s farmers
and ranchers, voicing the concerns of
its membership to policymakers on the
local, State and federal levels. Addi-
tionally, the Nevada Farm Bureau Fed-
eration continues its century-old part-
nership with Cooperative Extension in
the Silver State.
The Nevada Farm Bureau Federation
is currently made up of 11 county farm
bureau organizations representing
nearly 18,000 family members. I am
pleased to recognize the Nevada Farm
Bureau’s 100 years of service to Nevad-
ans and our great State and wish the
group well in continuing its work on
behalf of farmers and ranchers for
many years to come.∑
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
∑ Ms. DUCKWORTH. Madam President,
I come before the Senate today to
honor the life of Kay Hagan, who I had
the honor of serving in Congress with
from 2013 to 2014. A beloved public serv-
ant, businesswoman, mother, wife and
friend, Kay passed away last month at
the age of 66.
I admired Kay’s ability to find com-
mon ground and work in a bipartisan
manner without compromising her core
beliefs, as evidenced by both her many
legislative successes and her many cou-
rageous votes, including healthcare re-
form and expanded background checks.
She was also a tireless voice for wom-
en’s rights, and advocated for hard-
working North Carolinians and U.S.
Servicemembers by fighting to crack
down on predatory payday lending.
Roughly a decade before I brought
my daughter Maile onto the Senate
floor, Kay took on an outdated Senate
rule of her own by leading the success-
ful charge to force the Senate swim-
ming pool to allow women. Making the
Senate a welcoming place for everyone
is an ongoing struggle, but her efforts
certainly made it a little bit better for
women Senators for years to come.
Kay was an inspirational role model
to young girls and young women in
North Carolina, often encouraging
them to run for office at her events. I
have no doubt that many of them now
hold public office.
My deepest sympathies are with
Kay’s loved ones. I am grateful for her
passionate service to her State and our
country, and I am proud to continue
her work in the U.S. Senate.∑
f
25TH ANNIVERSARY OF NORTH OF
THE JAMES MAGAZINE
∑ Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I want
to wish a happy 25th anniversary to
North of the James magazine and con-
gratulate it on reaching this milestone.
I want to thank editor Charles
McGuigan and all who worked tire-
lessly to make the publication what it
is today. The magazine started off in a
garage in Richmond’s North Side
neighborhood. It has been exciting to
see the news outlet grow and become
an integral part of the community it
serves. North of the James has served
as a unique, hyper-local voice that
Richmonders can relate to. This is evi-
dent by the loyal readership in the area
throughout all these years.
I am proud that this year, Charles
McGuigan was awarded first place for
the feature writing portfolio by the
Virginia Press Association. He also was
awarded second place for the feature ti-
tled ‘‘Kaity Kasper: Blazing into that
Good Night.’’ I was proud to be fea-
tured by the magazine in 2012, and I
was humbled to be among great Vir-
ginians, like Oliver Hill, who have been
on the cover over the years.
Local news is a vital part of our com-
munities. Whether it is keeping readers
informed about art exhibits and food or
shining a spotlight on Virginians, we
are grateful for North of the James’
dedication to serving Richmonders for
the past 25 years. I know they will keep
up the great work.∑
f
REMEMBERING JOHN H. ADLER
∑ Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
am honored to rise today in recogni-
tion of the late John H. Adler on the
occasion of the dedication of the John
H. Adler Memorial Park at Challenge
Grove in Cherry Hill, NJ.
The Honorable John H. Adler was a
remarkable public servant who worked
tirelessly on behalf of New Jersey resi-
dents for decades. Growing up in south-
ern New Jersey, John worked hard in
school and overcame many personal
challenges to earn his undergraduate
and law degrees from Harvard Univer-
sity before returning home to Camden
County. He began a selfless career in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05NO6.029 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6390 November 5, 2019
public service in 1987 when he was
elected to the Cherry Hill Township
Committee. In 1992, he went on to rep-
resent New Jersey’s Sixth Legislative
District in the State’s senate, where he
served until 2008. There, he rose to the
chairmanship of the Senate Judiciary
Committee and served on the Environ-
mental Committee. One of John’s sig-
nature achievements, New Jersey’s
Smoke-Free Air Act, has greatly im-
proved the lives of New Jerseyans and
will undoubtedly continue to positively
impact the health and well-being of our
State’s residents for generations.
In 2008, John was elected to the
House of Representatives, becoming
the first Democratic lawmaker to rep-
resent New Jersey’s Third Congres-
sional District in more than a century.
Upon his arrival on Capitol Hill, John
quickly established a reputation for
hard work, compromise, and compas-
sion. He advocated forcefully for sen-
iors, members of the armed services
and veterans, and the environment. He
recognized the strategic and military
importance of Joint Base McGuire-Dix-
Lakehurst and sought to attract new
missions to help preserve the installa-
tion’s role in our national defense. He
was well known for working across the
aisle and overcoming partisanship to
accomplish meaningful legislation to
the benefit of our families and con-
stituents.
I am honored to have served with
John both in the New Jersey Legisla-
ture and as members of New Jersey’s
Congressional Delegation. John rep-
resented the very best of our law-
makers, and his sudden passing in 2011
was an immense loss to the Garden
State. Today, John’s wife, Shelley, and
their sons, Jeffrey, Alex, Andrew, and
Oliver, continue to carry on his legacy
of service and extraordinary dedication
to our friends, neighbors, and commu-
nities.
Mr. President, I acknowledge and
commend the Camden County Board of
Freeholders on the dedication of the
John H. Adler Memorial Park at Chal-
lenge Grove as a fitting tribute to re-
member one of New Jersey’s most hon-
orable sons. I would like to once again
recognize, applaud, and remember the
Honorable John H. Adler’s extraor-
dinary life and his service to the people
of New Jersey.∑
f
RECOGNIZING RHINO METALS, INC.
∑ Mr. RISCH. Madam President, as a
member and former chairman of the
Senate Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, each month I
recognize and celebrate the American
entrepreneurial spirit by highlighting
the success of a small business in my
Home State of Idaho. However, in
honor of Veterans Day on November 11,
this month I will honor a veteran-
owned small business for each of the 10
days the Senate is in legislative ses-
sion. The personal sacrifices made by
America’s veterans have protected the
very freedoms and values that give
each of us and our children the ability
to achieve the American dream. The
skills veterans learn as members of the
military are invaluable and undoubt-
edly contribute to Idaho’s flourishing
veteran business community. I am
proud of the sacrifices veterans have
made to protect our country and that
they are choosing Idaho to call home
when they complete their service in
the military. As your U.S. Senator
from the great State of Idaho, it is my
pleasure to recognize Rhino Metals,
Inc., in Caldwell as the Veteran-owned
Idaho Small Business of the Day for
November 5, 2019.
Rhino Metals, Inc., is owned and op-
erated by U.S. Air Force veteran Don
Suggs and is known for its quality,
hand-crafted products. The company
began in the 1990s as an aircraft res-
toration business and eventually ex-
panded to sell gun safes, tool chests,
and custom furniture. Suggs was in-
spired to open Rhino Metals following
his time serving in the Air Force as a
fighter pilot flying a McDonnell Doug-
las F–4 airplane, known as the ‘‘rhino’’
for its toughness and long nose.
After transitioning back to civilian
life, Suggs used the skills and work
ethic acquired during his military serv-
ice to build his business. Rhino Metals
makes an effort to give back to fellow
veterans seeking to reenter civilian
life. As a result, Suggs employs a large
number veterans and remains com-
mitted to the values he learned while
serving in the U.S. Air Force.
Congratulations to Don Suggs and all
of the employees at Rhino Metals, Inc.,
for being selected as the Veteran-
owned Idaho Small Business of the Day
for November 5, 2019. You make our
great State proud, and I look forward
to your continued growth and success.∑
f
RECOGNIZING PINK STABLE
∑ Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Madam Presi-
dent, as a member of the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
each week I recognize a small business
that exemplifies the American entre-
preneurial spirit at the heart of our
economy. This week, it is my privilege
to honor a business that provides qual-
ity women’s clothing while also fos-
tering economic development within
its immediate community. It is my
pleasure to recognize Pink Stable of
Camden, SC, as the Senate Small Busi-
ness of the Week.
Pink Stable is a boutique located in
historic downtown Camden. Estab-
lished in 2014, Kathryn Couch’s busi-
ness provides both classic and trendy
clothing at an affordable price for
women of all ages. Kathryn filled an
empty space in Camden’s downtown
after noticing there were few places
where women could buy contemporary
clothing with an element of southern
flair. After securing private financing,
she began implementing her unique
business plan and quickly developed a
loyal customer base. Currently, the
business is expanding their brand and
brainstorming ideas to create a greater
following outside of Camden. Their
Instagram page has amassed over 4,000
followers. This social media outlet is
used to scale their business and provide
merchandise to a wider range of poten-
tial customers.
Since its founding, Pink Stable has
also made a significant positive impact
in the community by maintaining its
commitment to customer service and
quality products. Through the Main
Street South Carolina Program, the
city of Camden has allocated $32.5 mil-
lion to revitalize the historic down-
town area and expand the local econ-
omy. Kathryn’s business has helped in-
spire others to consider opening shops
and restaurants in downtown Camden.
Pink Stable has become an integral
part of the community, proving that a
Camden-based business can flourish
through determination and a well-exe-
cuted business plan.
Kathryn was recently awarded with
the honor of South Carolina Young En-
trepreneur of the Year by the South
Carolina Small Business Administra-
tion in 2019 for her outstanding con-
tributions. Pink Stable’s success has
led Kathryn to open another small
business in the Camden area, Evelyn’s
Bridal Store, which was recognized as
South Carolina’s Best Bridal Store in
2017. I am honored to recognize Kath-
ryn and the entire team at Pink Stable
as the Senate Small Business of the
Week. Their boutique is a great exam-
ple of how strategic vision and deter-
mination can create commercial suc-
cess, and I look forward to watching
their continued growth.∑
f
REMEMBERING THOMAS IVERSON,
JR.
∑ Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I
have come to the floor to pay tribute
to Thomas Iverson, Jr., a longtime New
Hampshire resident and law enforce-
ment official who passed away recently
at the age of 72. Although he was born
in Massachusetts and lived briefly in
Maine, George was in many ways a
quintessential Granite Stater. He had
big personality and a passion for public
service that brought him to posts
across our great State.
After an honorable discharge from
the U.S. Navy during the Vietnam war,
Tom began his long career in law en-
forcement with the Manchester Police
Department. He served in New Hamp-
shire’s Queen City for 6 years before, at
the age of 26, becoming chief of police
for the town of Bradford, a small com-
munity of roughly 1000 residents west
of Concord. He continued his commit-
ment to protecting communities across
New Hampshire as lieutenant with the
Merrimack Police Department, chief of
police in Pembroke, and finally serving
as chief of the Litchfield Police De-
partment. Following a law enforcement
career that spanned three and a half
decades with service in five towns, Tom
retired in 2004.
Though a full retirement would have
been well-deserved, Tom wanted to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.013 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6391
November 5, 2019
continue dedicating his life to public
service. His next move took him to
Maine, where he was named the direc-
tor of the Emergency Management
Agency for Piscataquis County in 2005,
acting as a link between communities
and the State in responding to natural
and manmade disasters in Maine’s
least populous county. He returned to
the Granite State in 2012 and became
involved in courthouse security for the
New Hampshire Judicial Branch’s fa-
cilities in Manchester.
Throughout his career, Tom was a
strong proponent of what we now know
as community policing. He knew the
value of police officers building trust
and forging strong ties with the people
they serve. When he served as chief in
Bradford, Pembroke, and Litchfield,
Tom was a reliable and approachable
presence in the community. His com-
mitment to this community-based ap-
proach did not surprise those who knew
him and his commitment to helping
and enjoying the company of others. At
many local potlucks, he was known to
bring his trademark Norwegian meat-
balls with pasta. Although incredibly
giving of his time and wisdom, Tom
kept this recipe a closely-held secret.
The Granite State and the many
communities he served are grateful for
his many gifts and acts of selfless serv-
ice. In the last month, family and
friends have gathered to share and
cherish their many fond memories of
him. I am with them in spirit as they
reflect on the life of this good and gen-
erous man.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGE REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate a mes-
sage from the President of the United
States submitting a nomination which
was referred to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
(The message received today is print-
ed at the end of the Senate
proceedings.)
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
H.R. 4842. An act to authorize the Sec-
retary of State to provide funds for a United
States pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, and for
other purposes.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 995. A bill to amend title XXIX of the
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the
program under such title relating to lifespan
respite care.
S. 1130. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to improve the health of chil-
dren and help better understand and enhance
awareness about unexpected sudden death in
early life.
S. 1399. A bill to amend title VIII of the
Public Health Services Act to revise and ex-
tend nursing workforce development pro-
grams.
S. 1608. A bill to provide for the publication
by the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices of physical activity recommendations
for Americans.
S. 1657. A bill to provide assistance to com-
bat the escalating burden of Lyme disease
and other tick and vector-borne diseases and
disorders.
By Mr. GRAHAM, from the Committee on
the Judiciary, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute:
S. 2511. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to provide the Marshal of the
Supreme Court of the United States and Su-
preme Court Police with the authority to
protect the Chief Justice of the United
States, any Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, and other individuals in any location,
and for other purposes.
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 2619. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize the Healthy Start
program.
S. 2629. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act with respect to the Public
Health Service Corps.
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
without amendment:
S. 2740. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the regu-
latory framework with respect to certain
nonprescription drugs that are marketed
without an approved new drug application,
and for other purposes.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 2770. A bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to make grants to States that have in
place a law providing for the rights of sexual
assault survivors, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. BURR):
S. 2771. A bill to amend the Natural Gas
Act to protect consumers from excessive
rates, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 2772. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for treatment
of clinical psychologists as physicians for
purposes of furnishing clinical psychologist
services under the Medicare program; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. CASEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
and Ms. WARREN):
S. 2773. A bill to require non-Federal pris-
on, correctional, and detention facilities
holding Federal prisoners or detainees under
a contract with the Federal Government to
make the same information available to the
public that Federal prisons and correctional
facilities are required to make available; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mr.
KAINE, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. RUBIO, and
Mr. COONS):
S. 2774. A bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to establish and carry out a Veteran
Treatment Court Program; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. THUNE, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 2775. A bill to improve the cyber work-
force of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. CRUZ,
and Mr. HAWLEY):
S. 2776. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to foreign persons who engage in the
hostage-taking or wrongful detention of
United States citizens or aliens lawfully ad-
mitted for permanent residence, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 2777. A bill to assist States, tribes, terri-
tories, counties, and cities in implementing
the Family First Prevention Services Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr. GRA-
HAM, and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 2778. A bill to reform the EB–5 Immi-
grant Investor Program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr.
SCOTT of Florida, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 2779. A bill to establish the Federal
Clearinghouse on School Safety Best Prac-
tices, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH):
S. 2780. A bill to establish a training facil-
ity to support functions and activities relat-
ing to the licensing of commercial space
launch and reentry activities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2781. A bill to prohibit the involvement
of immediate family members of senior
United States Government officials with
Ukrainian entities; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Ms. CANTWELL:
S. 2782. A bill to improve provisions of law
relating to sexual harassment and assault
prevention at the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. 2783. A bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish, fund, and provide
for the use of amounts in a National Park
Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the National
Park Service, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 2784. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to pro-
vide grants to local educational agencies to
establish ‘‘Family Friendly School’’ policies
at 500 elementary schools that align the
school day with the work day to better sup-
port working families and to disseminate the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.016 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6392 November 5, 2019
learnings from these model schools so that
other local educational agency’s may adopt
these practices, and to establish a supple-
mental 21st century community learning
centers grant program to support programs
and activities during summer recess when
school is not in session; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Ms.
BALDWIN):
S. 2785. A bill to set forth a method of de-
termining maximum out-of-pocket limits
and annual updates to premium tax credit
eligibility under the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
WICKER, and Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. 2786. A bill to establish a Federal advi-
sory committee to provide policy rec-
ommendations to the Secretary of Transpor-
tation on positioning the United States to
take advantage of emerging opportunities
for Arctic maritime transportation; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. MARKEY, and Mr. GARD-
NER):
S. Res. 406. A resolution recognizing that
for 50 years, the Association of South East
Asian Nations (ASEAN) and its ten mem-
bers, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Ma-
laysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore,
Thailand, and Vietnam, have worked with
the United States toward stability, pros-
perity, and peace in Southeast Asia, and ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that the
United States will continue to remain a
strong, reliable, and active partner in the
ASEAN region; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. CARDIN,
and Mr. MCCONNELL):
S. Res. 407. A resolution congratulating the
Washington Nationals on winning the 2019
Major League Baseball World Series; consid-
ered and agreed to.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. Con. Res. 29. A concurrent resolution
urging all nations to outlaw the dog and cat
meat trade and to enforce existing laws
against such trade; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 170
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
170, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to limit the amount
of certain qualified conservation con-
tributions.
S. 179
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
179, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a clinical
trial of the effects of cannabis on cer-
tain health outcomes of adults with
chronic pain and post-traumatic stress
disorder, and for other purposes.
S. 348
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
348, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
distribution of additional residency po-
sitions, and for other purposes.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 457, a bill to require that
$1 coins issued during 2019 honor Presi-
dent George H.W. Bush and to direct
the Secretary of the Treasury to issue
bullion coins during 2019 in honor of
Barbara Bush.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
460, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the exclu-
sion for employer-provided education
assistance to employer payments of
student loans.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
479, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18,
United States Code, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 514
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
514, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the benefits
and services provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to women vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
S. 610
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Wash-
ington (Ms. CANTWELL) and the Senator
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) were
added as cosponsors of S. 610, a bill to
amend title 9 of the United States Code
with respect to arbitration.
S. 692
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 692, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the
excise tax on medical devices.
S. 696
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 696, a bill to designate the same
individual serving as the Chief Nurse
Officer of the Public Health Service as
the National Nurse for Public Health.
S. 750
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 750, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to per-
manently extend the new markets tax
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 762
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 762, a bill to provide for funding
from the Airport and Airway Trust
Fund for all Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration activities in the event of a Gov-
ernment shutdown, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 814
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 814, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to im-
prove access to diabetes outpatient
self-management training services, and
for other purposes.
S. 839
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 839, a bill to extend Federal Pell
Grant eligibility of certain short-term
programs.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1032, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to modify the definition of
income for purposes of determining the
tax-exempt status of certain corpora-
tions.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1102, a bill to promote security
and energy partnerships in the Eastern
Mediterranean, and for other purposes.
S. 1238
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1238, a bill to provide requirements for
Executive agency spending at the end
of a fiscal year, and for other purposes.
S. 1380
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) and the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1380, a bill to amend the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure to remind
prosecutors of their obligations under
Supreme Court case law.
S. 1381
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1381, a bill to modify the
presumption of service connection for
veterans who were exposed to herbicide
agents while serving in the Armed
Forces in Thailand during the Vietnam
era, and for other purposes.
S. 1421
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1421, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to the 23d
Headquarters Special Troops and the
3133d Signal Service Company in rec-
ognition of their unique and distin-
guished service as a ‘‘Ghost Army’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.025 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6393
November 5, 2019
that conducted deception operations in
Europe during World War II.
S. 1458
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1458, a bill to codify the Outdoor Recre-
ation Legacy Partnership Program of
the National Park Service, and for
other purposes.
S. 1583
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1583, a bill to amend the
Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Preven-
tion Act to provide for additional pro-
cedures for families with children
under the age of 6, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1590, a bill to amend the
State Department Basic Authorities
Act of 1956 to authorize rewards for
thwarting wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1622
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1622, a bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to list fentanyl-related
substances as schedule I controlled
substances.
S. 1665
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1665, a bill to modify the pro-
cedures for issuing special recreation
permits for certain public land units,
and for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH), the Senator from
South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT), the Sen-
ator from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN)
and the Senator from West Virginia
(Mrs. CAPITO) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1757, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States Army Rangers Veterans
of World War II in recognition of their
extraordinary service during World
War II.
S. 1766
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1766, a bill to imple-
ment policies to end preventable ma-
ternal, newborn, and child deaths glob-
ally.
S. 1804
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1804, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to issue guidelines relating to the
appropriate inclusion of residential
manufactured homes in Consolidated
Plans, and for other purposes.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1820, a bill to
improve the integrity and safety of
horseracing by requiring a uniform
anti-doping and medication control
program to be developed and enforced
by an independent Horseracing Anti-
Doping and Medication Control Au-
thority.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1822, a bill to require the
Federal Communications Commission
to issue rules relating to the collection
of data with respect to the availability
of broadband services, and for other
purposes.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1838, a bill to amend the Hong
Kong Policy Act of 1992, and for other
purposes.
S. 1846
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1846, a bill to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to pro-
vide for engagements with State, local,
Tribal, and territorial governments,
and for other purposes.
S. 1954
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Iowa (Ms. ERNST) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1954, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint com-
memorative coins in recognition of the
75th anniversary of the integration of
baseball.
S. 2026
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2026, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to reauthorize the farm to school pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2179, a bill to amend the
Older Americans Act of 1965 to provide
social service agencies with the re-
sources to provide services to meet the
urgent needs of Holocaust survivors to
age in place with dignity, comfort, se-
curity, and quality of life.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2216, a bill to require
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
formally recognize caregivers of vet-
erans, notify veterans and caregivers of
clinical determinations relating to eli-
gibility for caregiver programs, and
temporarily extend benefits for vet-
erans who are determined ineligible for
the family caregiver program, and for
other purposes.
S. 2248
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Montana (Mr. DAINES) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2248, a bill to amend
title 10, United States Code, to redesig-
nate and expand the Troops-to-Teach-
ers Program, and for other purposes.
S. 2254
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. REED) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2254, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create
a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund,
to establish a Pension Rehabilitation
Administration within the Department
of the Treasury to make loans to mul-
tiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes.
S. 2353
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2353, a bill to direct the
Administrator of the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency to develop
guidance for firefighters and other
emergency response personnel on best
practices to protect them from expo-
sure to PFAS and to limit and prevent
the release of PFAS into the environ-
ment, and for other purposes.
S. 2417
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN), the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) and the Sen-
ator from New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2417, a
bill to provide for payment of proceeds
from savings bonds to a State with
title to such bonds pursuant to the
judgment of a court.
S. 2427
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 2427, a bill to
amend title 31, United States Code, to
require the Secretary of the Treasury
to mint and issue quarter dollars in
commemoration of the 19th Amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 2459
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2459, a bill to amend title 9,
United States Code, to prohibit
predispute arbitration agreements that
force arbitration of certain disputes
arising from claims of servicemembers
and veterans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.027 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6394 November 5, 2019
S. 2539
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2539, a bill to modify and reauthorize
the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002, and for
other purposes.
S. 2565
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2565, a bill to estab-
lish a Global Climate Change Resil-
ience Strategy, to authorize the admis-
sion of climate-displaced persons, and
for other purposes.
S. 2567
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2567, a bill to provide rental assistance
to low-income tenants of certain mul-
tifamily rural housing projects, and for
other purposes.
S. 2590
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) and the Senator from Ken-
tucky (Mr. PAUL) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2590, a bill to protect the
dignity of fetal remains, and for other
purposes.
S. 2603
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2603, a bill to amend the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to end the
immigrant visa backlog, and for other
purposes.
S. 2613
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2613, a bill to provide a path to end
homelessness in the United States, and
for other purposes.
S. 2625
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2625, a bill to authorize the admis-
sion of a limited number of Kurdish
Syrians and other Syrian partners as
special immigrants, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2641
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2641, a bill to promote
United States national security and
prevent the resurgence of ISIS, and for
other purposes.
S. 2662
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2662, a bill to amend sections 111,
169, and 171 of the Clean Air Act to
clarify when a physical change in, or
change in the method of operation of, a
stationary source constitutes a modi-
fication or construction, and for other
purposes.
S. 2666
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2666, a bill to promote the development
of renewable energy on public land, and
for other purposes.
S. 2679
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the names of the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) and the Senator
from Montana (Mr. TESTER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2679, a bill to facili-
tate the automatic acquisition of citi-
zenship for lawful permanent resident
children of military and Federal Gov-
ernment personnel residing abroad, and
for other purposes.
S. 2680
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) and
the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS) were added as cosponsors of S.
2680, a bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to foreign support for Palestinian
terrorism, and for other purposes.
S. 2749
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2749, a bill to pro-
vide requirements for the .gov domain,
and for other purposes.
S. 2750
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2750, a bill to amend the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 to authorize
the Operation Stonegarden grant pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 2765
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the names
of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) were added as cosponsors
of S. 2765, a bill to improve Federal fis-
cal controls and the congressional
budget process.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the names of the Senator from Dela-
ware (Mr. COONS), the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. MORAN) and the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CORNYN) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 98, a resolution
establishing the Congressional Gold
Star Family Fellowship Program for
the placement in offices of Senators of
children, spouses, and siblings of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces who are hos-
tile casualties or who have died from a
training-related injury.
S. RES. 112
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 112, a resolution ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that
the United States condemns all forms
of violence against children globally
and recognizes the harmful impacts of
violence against children.
S. RES. 371
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 371, a resolution reaffirm-
ing the support of the United States for
the people of the Republic of South
Sudan and calling on all parties to up-
hold their commitments to peace and
dialogue as outlined in the 2018 revital-
ized peace agreement.
S. RES. 395
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) and the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 395, a
resolution recognizing the 40th anni-
versary of the Iran Hostage Crisis, and
for other purposes.
S. RES. 404
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY), the Senator from New
York (Mr. SCHUMER) and the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 404, a
resolution expressing the sense of the
Senate that the United States should
work in cooperation with the inter-
national community and continue to
exercise global leadership to address
the causes and effects of climate
change, and for other purposes.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 406—RECOG-
NIZING THAT FOR 50 YEARS, THE
ASSOCIATION OF SOUTH EAST
ASIAN NATIONS (ASEAN) AND
ITS TEN MEMBERS, BRUNEI,
CAMBODIA, INDONESIA, LAOS,
MALAYSIA, MYANMAR, THE
PHILIPPINES, SINGAPORE, THAI-
LAND, AND VIETNAM, HAVE
WORKED WITH THE UNITED
STATES TOWARD STABILITY,
PROSPERITY, AND PEACE IN
SOUTHEAST ASIA, AND EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT THE UNITED
STATES WILL CONTINUE TO RE-
MAIN A STRONG, RELIABLE, AND
ACTIVE PARTNER IN THE ASEAN
REGION
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. MARKEY, and Mr. GARDNER)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 406
Whereas the 10 members of the Association
of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) rep-
resent a variety of different cultures and be-
liefs as well as vibrant economies giving rise
to a flourishing middle class;
Whereas an estimated 70,000,000 United
States citizens identify with an ethnicity
represented in ASEAN, including 4,000,000
Filipinos and 1,900,000 Vietnamese;
Whereas the United States and ASEAN
have been cooperating to advance our mu-
tual interests for 40 years, having first estab-
lished dialogue relations on September 10,
1977, with the issuing of the 1977 Joint Com-
munique of the First ASEAN-United States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.029 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6395
November 5, 2019
Dialogue and the United States acceding to
the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in
Southeast Asia (TAC) at the ASEAN Post
Ministerial Conference Session with the
United States in Thailand on July 22, 2009;
Whereas the United States was the first
non-ASEAN country to appoint an ambas-
sador to ASEAN on April 29, 2008, and the
first non-member to establish a permanent
mission to ASEAN in 2010;
Whereas cooperation between the United
States Government and the governments and
people of the ASEAN nations can help realize
their common goals of a peaceful, pros-
perous, and open Indo-Pacific rooted in a
rule-based order that promotes security, op-
portunity, and dignity to all peoples;
Whereas, in 2019, ASEAN’s 10 members rep-
resent the sixth largest economy in the
world and constitute the United States’
fourth-largest export market, with total ex-
ports to ASEAN countries reaching
$116,200,000,000, representing the number one
destination for United States investment in
the Indo-Pacific with $329,000,000,000 in cu-
mulative foreign direct investment;
Whereas ASEAN nations host critical glob-
al sea lanes located at the heart of the
world’s most dynamic economic regions,
with $5,300,000,000,000 of global trade and
more than half of the world’s total shipped
tonnage transiting through ASEAN waters
each year;
Whereas the ultimate goal of the ASEAN
Economic Community is to create one of the
world’s largest single market economies and
facilitate the free movement of goods, serv-
ices, and professionals;
Whereas the United States-ASEAN Single
Window custom facilitation system expe-
dites intra-ASEAN trade and enhances the
ability of United States businesses to oper-
ate in the region;
Whereas the United States-ASEAN Busi-
ness Alliance for Competitive, Small, and
Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) has
trained more than 4,600 small-to-medium size
enterprises, with nearly half of the partici-
pants being women entrepreneurs;
Whereas the Lower Mekong Initiative, es-
tablished on July 23, 2009, promotes sustain-
able economic development in mainland
Southeast Asia and fosters regional coopera-
tion, integration, and capacity building;
Whereas the United States remains com-
mitted to working with ASEAN to improve
the protection of human rights and funda-
mental dignity of the people of ASEAN coun-
tries, a key ingredient to maintaining sta-
bility, promoting economic growth, and ad-
vancing good governance;
Whereas the United States opposes all
claims in the maritime domain that infringe
on the rights, freedoms, and lawful use of the
sea that belongs to all nations, and has a na-
tional interest in freedom of navigation and
overflight, open access to Asia’s maritime
commons, and respect for international law
in the South China Sea;
Whereas the United States does not take
sides on the competing territorial disputes,
but nevertheless believes claimants should
pursue territorial claims without resort to
coercion, and through collaborative diplo-
macy, including international arbitration,
and in accordance with international law
and institutions;
Whereas the United States supports the
Philippines’ decision to use arbitration
under the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), done at Montego
Bay December 10, 1982, to peacefully and law-
fully address competing territorial claims;
Whereas the United States supports efforts
by ASEAN and the People’s Republic of
China to develop an effective Code of Con-
duct (COC), opposes efforts by any nation to
use the COC as a vehicle to limit presence in
or lawful use of the South China Sea, encour-
ages claimants not to undertake new or uni-
lateral attempts to change the status quo
since the signing of the 2002 Declaration of
Conduct, including reclamation activities or
administrative measures or controls in dis-
puted areas in the South China Sea, and en-
courages ASEAN countries to adopt a unified
position in negotiating the COC;
Whereas the ASEAN-United States Mari-
time Exercise (AUXM), which ran from Sep-
tember 2, 2019, until September 6, 2019, built
greater maritime security on the strength of
ASEAN, the strength of our navy-to-navy
bonds, and the strength of our shared belief
in a free and open Indo-Pacific; and
Whereas changes in climatic conditions in
the ASEAN region over the past four decades
have resulted in major loss and damage, with
a disproportionate impact on developing
countries, and the United States will pursue
initiatives that are consistent with sustain-
able development, including the achievement
of food security and poverty alleviation, im-
provement of conservation and sustainable
management of forests, fish stocks, and oce-
anic resources, resilience to extreme weather
events and climate-driven disasters, and pro-
vision of sustainable livelihood for local
communities throughout the ASEAN region:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports and affirms the full implemen-
tation of provisions of the Asia Reassurance
Initiative Act (Public Law 115–409) with re-
gard to elevating the United States relation-
ship with ASEAN;
(2) reaffirms the importance of United
States-ASEAN economic engagement, in-
cluding the elimination of barriers to cross-
border commerce, and supports the ASEAN
Economic Community’s goals, including
strong, inclusive, and sustainable growth
and cooperation with the United States that
focuses on innovation and capacity building
efforts in technology, education, disaster
management, food security, human rights,
and trade facilitation, including for
ASEAN’s poorest countries;
(3) urges ASEAN to continue its efforts to
foster greater integration and unity within
the ASEAN community, as well as to foster
greater integration and unity with non-
ASEAN economic, political, and security
partners, including Japan, the Republic of
Korea, Australia, the European Union, Tai-
wan, and India;
(4) recognizes the value of strategic eco-
nomic initiatives like the United States-
ASEAN Connect, which demonstrates a com-
mitment to ASEAN and the AEC and builds
upon economic relationships in the region;
(5) supports ASEAN nations in addressing
maritime and territorial disputes in a con-
structive manner and in pursuing claims
through peaceful, diplomatic, and legitimate
regional and international arbitration mech-
anisms, consistent with international law,
including through the adoption of a code of
conduct in the South China Sea to further
promote peace and stability in the region;
(6) urges all parties to maritime and terri-
torial disputes in the Asia-Pacific region, in-
cluding the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China—
(A) to exercise self-restraint in the conduct
of activities that would undermine stability
or complicate or escalate disputes through
the use of coercion, intimidation, or military
force;
(B) to refrain from new efforts to milita-
rize uninhabited islands, reefs, shoals, and
other features, including the construction of
new garrisons and facilities and the reloca-
tion of additional military personnel, mate-
rial, or equipment;
(C) to oppose actions by any county to pre-
vent any other country from exercising its
sovereign rights to the resources of the ex-
clusive economic zone (EEZ) and continental
shelf by seeking to enforce claims to those
areas in the South China Sea that have no
support in international law; and
(D) to oppose unilateral declarations of ad-
ministrative and military districts in con-
tested areas in the South China Sea;
(7) urges parties to refrain from unilateral
actions that cause permanent physical dam-
age to the marine environment, and supports
the efforts of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration and ASEAN to
implement guidelines to address the illegal,
unreported, and unregulated fishing in the
region;
(8) supports efforts by United States part-
ners and allies in ASEAN—
(A) to enhance maritime capability and
maritime domain awareness; and
(B) to protect unhindered access to and use
of international waterways in the Asia-Pa-
cific region that are critical to ensuring the
security and free flow of commerce;
(C) to counter piracy;
(D) to disrupt illicit maritime trafficking
activates such as the trafficking of persons;
goods, and drugs; and
(E) to enhance the maritime capabilities of
countries or regional organizations to re-
spond to emerging threats to maritime secu-
rity in the Asia-Pacific region;
(9) urges ASEAN member states to develop
a common approach to reaffirm the decision
of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in
The Hague’s ruling with respect to the case
between the Republic of the Philippines and
the People’s Republic of China;
(10) reaffirms the commitment of the
United States to continue joint efforts with
ASEAN to halt human smuggling and traf-
ficking in persons, and urges ASEAN to
make increased efforts to create and
strengthen regional mechanisms to provide
assistance and support to refugees and mi-
grants;
(11) supports the Lower Mekong Initiative,
which has made significant progress in pro-
moting sustainable economic development in
mainland Southeast Asia and fostering inte-
grated sub-regional cooperation and capacity
building;
(12) urges ASEAN to build capacity for the
promotion and protection of human rights
by ASEAN member states, and the imple-
mentation of related priorities, programs,
and activities;
(13) urges ASEAN governments to engage
directly with leaders of civil society and
human rights, including advocates of reli-
gious freedom, victims of human rights
abuses, and environmental groups, and to
prioritize the construction of forums that
give these stakeholders a voice to instruct
public policy;
(14) encourages the President of the United
States to communicate to ASEAN leaders
the importance of protecting human rights,
including ending extrajudicial killings, re-
leasing political prisoners, ceasing politi-
cally motivated prosecutions, strengthening
civil society, safeguarding freedom of the
press, freedom of assembly, and the free flow
of information and ideas, and promoting the
rule of law and open and transparent govern-
ment;
(15) supports efforts by organizations in
ASEAN addressing corruption in the public
and private sectors, enhancing anti-bribery
compliance, enforcing bribery criminaliza-
tion in the private sector, and building bene-
ficial ownership transparency through the
ASEAN-USAID PROSPECT project
partnered with the South East Asia Parties
Against Corruption (SEA-PAC);
(16) supports the Young Southeast Asian
Leaders Initiative program as an example of
people-to-people partnership building that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.031 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6396 November 5, 2019
provides skills, networks, and leadership ca-
pabilities to a new generation of people who
will create and fill jobs, foster cross-border
cooperation and partnerships, and rise to
solve the regional and global challenges of
the future; and
(17) urges ASEAN governments to fully up-
hold and implement all United Nations Secu-
rity Council resolutions and international
agreements with respect to North Korea’s
nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 407—CON-
GRATULATING THE WASHINGTON
NATIONALS ON WINNING THE
2019 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
WORLD SERIES
Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. CARDIN, and Mr.
MCCONNELL) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 407
Whereas, on October 30, 2019, the Wash-
ington Nationals won the 2019 Major League
Baseball World Series;
Whereas that World Series win was the
first World Series won by the Washington
Nationals in the 51 years that the franchise
has been in Major League Baseball;
Whereas the last Major League Baseball
team in Washington, DC, to win the World
Series was the Washington Senators in 1924;
Whereas the Washington Nationals de-
feated the Milwaukee Brewers in the Na-
tional League Wild Card Game;
Whereas the Washington Nationals de-
feated the Los Angeles Dodgers in the Na-
tional League Division Series;
Whereas the Washington Nationals de-
feated the St. Louis Cardinals in the Na-
tional League Championship Series;
Whereas the Washington Nationals de-
feated the Houston Astros in the World Se-
ries;
Whereas the Washington Nationals dem-
onstrated team spirit and determination in
winning the World Series after starting the
regular season 19–31, staving off 5 playoff
elimination games, and being widely consid-
ered underdogs in the World Series;
Whereas the roster of players for the Wash-
ington Nationals for the 2019 World Series in-
cluded—
(1) Matt Adams;
(2) Asdrúbal Cabrera;
(3) Patrick Corbin;
(4) Sean Doolittle;
(5) Brian Dozier;
(6) Adam Eaton;
(7) Yan Gomes;
(8) Javy Guerra;
(9) Daniel Hudson;
(10) Howie Kendrick;
(11) Gerardo Parra;
(12) Tanner Rainey;
(13) Anthony Rendon;
(14) Vı́ctor Robles;
(15) Fernando Rodney;
(16) Joe Ross;
(17) Anı́bal Sánchez;
(18) Max Scherzer;
(19) Juan Soto;
(20) Stephen Strasburg;
(21) Wander Suero;
(22) Kurt Suzuki;
(23) Michael A. Taylor;
(24) Trea Turner; and
(25) Ryan Zimmerman;
Whereas Stephen Strasburg received the
Most Valuable Player award for the 2019
World Series;
Whereas Mike Rizzo, General Manager and
President of Baseball Operations, and Dave
Martinez, Manager, provided outstanding
leadership and guided the Washington Na-
tionals to their first World Series victory;
Whereas the Principal Owners of the Wash-
ington Nationals, Theodore N. Lerner
(Founding Principal Owner), Mark D. Lerner
(Managing Principal Owner), Annette M.
Lerner, Marla Lerner Tanenbaum, Debra
Lerner Cohen, Robert K. Tanenbaum, Ed-
ward L. Cohen, and Judy Lenkin Lerner,
have contributed greatly to the Nation’s
Capital and the National Capital Region
through the philanthropic work of The An-
nette M. and Theodore N. Lerner Family
Foundation and the Washington Nationals
Dream Foundation: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the Washington Nation-
als on winning the 2019 World Series;
(2) applauds the people of the Nation’s Cap-
ital and the National Capital Region for
their enthusiastic support of the Washington
Nationals; and
(3) respectfully requests the Secretary of
the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to—
(A) the Managing Principal Owner of the
Washington Nationals, Mark D. Lerner;
(B) the Manager of the Washington Nation-
als, Dave Martinez; and
(C) the General Manager and President of
Baseball Operations of the Washington Na-
tionals, Mike Rizzo.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 29—URGING ALL NATIONS
TO OUTLAW THE DOG AND CAT
MEAT TRADE AND TO ENFORCE
EXISTING LAWS AGAINST SUCH
TRADE
Mr. MERKLEY submitted the fol-
lowing concurrent resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations:
S. CON. RES. 29
Whereas a bipartisan domestic prohibition
on the knowing slaughter, transportation,
possession, purchase, or sale of a dog or cat
for human consumption was included in sec-
tion 12515 of the Agriculture Improvement
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–334), which was
enacted on December 20, 2018;
Whereas the dog and cat meat trade occurs
throughout the world, primarily in Asia;
Whereas established dog meat markets
still exist today;
Whereas Humane Society International,
Animals Asia Foundation, and others esti-
mate that 30,000,000 dogs and 10,000,000 cats
die annually worldwide as a result of the dog
and cat meat trade, and those organizations
have found that a considerable number of the
dogs and cats in this trade are stolen pets
still wearing collars when they reach the
slaughterhouses, in addition to stray dogs
and cats who are captured for slaughter;
Whereas there have been reports of abuse,
poor living conditions, and cruel slaugh-
tering techniques for dogs and cats farmed
for their meat;
Whereas many dogs and cats die during
transport to slaughterhouses after days or
weeks crammed into small cages on the back
of vehicles without food or water, and others
suffer illness and injury during transport;
Whereas the extreme suffering of dogs and
cats at such slaughterhouses and on trans-
portation trucks would breach anti-cruelty
laws in the United States and other coun-
tries;
Whereas many government officials, civil
society advocates, and activists are working
to end the dog and cat meat trade on
anticruelty and public health grounds, and
the Governments of Singapore, Taiwan,
Thailand, the Philippines, and Hong Kong
have passed laws banning the dog meat
trade;
Whereas the World Health Organization
has linked the dog meat industry to human
outbreaks of trichinellosis, cholera, and ra-
bies;
Whereas those involved in the dog meat in-
dustry are at an increased health risk for
zoonotic diseases, such as rabies, which can
transfer from dogs to humans through infec-
tious material such as saliva;
Whereas the spread of disease may be exac-
erbated by unsanitary conditions of slaugh-
ter and by the sale of dog and cat meat at
open-air markets and restaurants; and
Whereas the World Health Organization
and the Global Alliance for Rabies Control
have both acknowledged the link between
the spread of rabies and the dog meat trade
which sees large numbers of dogs of unknown
disease status moved vast distances: Now,
therefore be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress—
(1) calls for an end to the consumption and
trade of dog and cat meat on cruelty and
public health grounds;
(2) urges all nations with a dog or cat meat
trade to adopt and enforce laws banning that
trade; and
(3) affirms the commitment of the United
States to advancing the cause of animal pro-
tection and animal welfare, both domesti-
cally and around the world.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 5 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, November 05, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing on the following
nominations: James P. Danly, of Ten-
nessee, to be a Member of the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, and
Katharine MacGregor, of Pennsylvania,
to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Tuesday, November 05,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
November 05, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to con-
duct a closed briefing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON AVIATION AND SPACE
The Subcommittee on Aviation and
Space of the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, November 05, 2019,
at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.031 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6397
November 5, 2019
SUBCOMMITTEE ON CRIME AND TERRORISM
The Subcommittee on Crime and
Terrorism of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
November 05, 2019, at 2;30 p.m., to con-
duct a hearing.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that floor privi-
leges be granted to Michael Thomas, a
member of my staff, during today’s ses-
sion of the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
h
FOREIGN TRAVEL FINANCIAL REPORTS
In accordance with the appropriate provisions of law, the Secretary of the Senate herewith submits the following re-
ports for standing committees of the Senate, certain joint committees of the Congress, delegations and groups, and select
and special committees of the Senate, relating to expenses incurred in the performance of authorized foreign travel:
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, & FORESTRY FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Debbie Stabenow:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,139.99 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,139.99
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Emily Carwell:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,139.99 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,139.99
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Japan ........................................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 553.04 .................... 553.04
Singapore .................................................................................................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 465.24 .................... 465.24
Australia ................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,569.66 .................... 1,569.66
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 6,025.98 .................... .................... .................... 2,587.94 .................... 8,613.92
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR PAT ROBERTS,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, & Forestry, Oct. 28, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Paul Grove:
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... 409.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 409.14
Myanmar ................................................................................................... Kyat ...................................................... .................... 554.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 554.00
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... 577.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 577.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,679.63 .................... .................... .................... 12,679.63
Senator Chris Van Hollen:
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 549.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 549.92
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,356.24 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,356.24
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... 243.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 243.66
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,499.53 .................... .................... .................... 13,499.53
Afreen Ahkter:
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 550.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 550.29
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,357.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,357.43
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... 244.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 244.08
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,946.73 .................... .................... .................... 14,946.73
Allen Cutler:
Chile .......................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 699.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 699.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,307.63 .................... .................... .................... 13,307.63
Senator Roy Blunt:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,423.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,423.20
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 936.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 936.83
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63 .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63
Laura Friedel:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,423.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,423.20
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 936.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 936.83
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63 .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63
Richard Eddings:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,423.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,423.20
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 936.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 936.83
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63 .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63
John Lucio:
Marshall Islands ....................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 218.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 218.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,499.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,499.03
Senator Richard Shelby:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 1,439.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,439.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 390.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.22
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,021.23 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,021.23
Senator John Kennedy:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 1,439.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,439.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 390.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.22
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,082.53 .................... .................... .................... 4,082.53
Shannon Hines:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 1,369.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,369.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 390.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.22
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,021.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,021.22
Anne Caldwell:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 1,369.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,369.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 390.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.22
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,021.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,021.22
David Stokes:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 1,369.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,369.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 390.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.22
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.034 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6398 November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,021.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,021.22
Senator Jerry Moran:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,308.00
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 463.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 463.04
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,385.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,385.47
Senator James Lankford:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,211.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,211.64
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 366.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 366.68
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,289.11 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,289.11
Brennen Britton:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,268.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,268.00
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 463.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 463.04
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,385.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,385.47
James Kelly:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,241.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,241.66
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 457.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 457.36
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,372.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,372.95
Michelle Altman:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,172.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,172.41
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 367.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 367.45
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,289.88 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,289.88
Katherine Jackson:
Republic of the Congo ............................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... 2,011.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,011.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,632.23 .................... .................... .................... 7,632.23
Kali Farahmand:
Republic of the Congo ............................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... 2,011.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,011.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,667.23 .................... .................... .................... 7,667.23
Senator Steve Daines:
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... 1,262.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,262.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,369.13 .................... .................... .................... 12,369.13
Wally Hsueh:
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... 1,262.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,262.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,549.03 .................... .................... .................... 12,549.03
Laura Friedel:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,140.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,140.00
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
Christopher Hall:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,140.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,140.00
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
Amber Busby (Beck):
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 599.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 599.28
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krone .................................................... .................... 1,042.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,042.00
England ..................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 1,392.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,392.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,325.03 .................... .................... .................... 13,325.03
Jennifer Eskra:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 601.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 601.45
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krone .................................................... .................... 1,042.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,042.00
England ..................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 1,392.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,392.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,325.03 .................... .................... .................... 13,325.03
Paul Grove:
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... 241.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 241.00
Cambodia ................................................................................................. Riel ....................................................... .................... 708.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 708.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,959.00 .................... .................... .................... 12,959.00
Adam Yezerski:
Philippines ................................................................................................ Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,020.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,020.63
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... 1,380.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,380.68
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,714.23 .................... .................... .................... 5,714.23
Alex Carnes:
Philippines ................................................................................................ Peso ...................................................... .................... 965.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 965.63
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... 1,320.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,320.68
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,714.23 .................... .................... .................... 5,714.23
Kate Kaufer:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 2,335.06 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,335.06
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,830.33 .................... .................... .................... 15,830.33
Hanz Heinrichs:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 2,335.06 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,335.06
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,830.33 .................... .................... .................... 15,830.33
John Lucio:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 960.58 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 960.58
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... 241.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 241.00
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,839.13 .................... .................... .................... 9,839.13
Emy Lesofski:
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 2,019.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,019.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,814.53 .................... .................... .................... 11,814.53
Lucas Agnew:
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 2,019.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,019.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,814.53 .................... .................... .................... 11,814.53
Ryan Hunt:
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 2,019.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,019.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,783.53 .................... .................... .................... 9,783.53
Patrick Magnuson:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,048.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,048.73
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,778.66 .................... .................... .................... 2,778.66
Jennifer Bastin:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,048.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,048.73
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,778.66 .................... .................... .................... 2,778.66
Jason McMahon:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,048.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,048.73
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,778.66 .................... .................... .................... 2,778.66
Senator Richard Shelby:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,800.19 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,800.19
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,337.93 .................... .................... .................... 4,337.93
Delegation Expenses:*
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 226.19 .................... 226.19
Myanmar ................................................................................................... Kyat ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 200.00 .................... 200.00
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,417.07 .................... 2,417.07
Delegation Expenses:*
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 563.50 .................... 563.50
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,252.58 .................... 6,252.58
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 455.86 .................... 455.86
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6399
November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Eqypt ......................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,163.54 .................... 2,163.54
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 510.08 .................... 510.08
Delegation Expenses:*
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,510.83 .................... 4,510.83
Delegation Expenses:*
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,779.70 .................... 2,770.70
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,458.45 .................... 2,458.45
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,538.88 .................... 3,538.88
Delegation Expenses:*
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,395.50 .................... 5,395.50
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 634.70 .................... 634.70
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 686.11 .................... 686.11
Delegation Expenses:*
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,641.00 .................... 2,641.00
Delegation Expenses:*
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 553.04 .................... 553.04
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 465.24 .................... 465.24
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,569.66 .................... 1,569.66
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,229.46 .................... 1,229.46
Delegation Expenses:*
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,803.80 .................... 1,803.80
Delegation Expenses:*
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 294.07 .................... 294.07
Cambodia ................................................................................................. Riel ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 622.62 .................... 622.62
Delegation Expenses:*
Philippines ................................................................................................ Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 504.32 .................... 504.32
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.67 .................... 955.67
Delegation Expenses:*
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,950.51 .................... 1,950.51
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 90.77 .................... 90.77
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 69.00 .................... 69.00
Delegation Expenses:*
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,426.00 .................... 1,426.00
Delegation Expenses:*
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,962.17 .................... 1,962.17
Delegation Expenses:*
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,481.18 .................... 2,481.18
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 83,978.43 .................... 283,277.40 .................... 51,411.50 .................... 418,667.33
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RICHARD SHELBY,
Chairman, Committee on Appropriations, Oct. 25, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Rick Scott:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,191.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,191.44
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 244.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 244.60
Jackie Zeckman:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 1,657.77 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,657.77
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 199.31 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 199.31
Chris Hartline:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,097.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,097.44
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 245.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 245.41
Delegation Expenses:*
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... .................... .................... 143.90 .................... 576.67 .................... 720.57
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,010.12 .................... .................... .................... 1,010.12
Eric Trager:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,034.43 .................... .................... .................... 8,034.43
Lebanon .................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 137.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 137.36
Egypt ......................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 1,095.90 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,095.90
Thomas Goffus:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,034.43 .................... .................... .................... 8,034.43
Lebanon .................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 222.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 222.36
Egypt ......................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 1,128.31 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,128.31
Delegation Expenses:*
Lebanon .................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,639.00 .................... 6,639.00
Egypt ......................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,789.67 .................... 3,789.67
Dustin Walker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,479.12 .................... .................... .................... 11,479.12
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 264.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 264.32
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,121.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,121.46
Augusta Binns-Berkey:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,529.12 .................... .................... .................... 11,529.12
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 254.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 254.65
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,514.74 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,514.74
Delegation Expenses:*
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,941.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,941.00
Senator Rick Scott:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,467.23 .................... .................... .................... 4,467.23
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euro ...................................................... .................... 477.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 477.60
Delegation Expenses:*
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 32.30 .................... .................... .................... 32.30
Adam Barker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,397.43 .................... .................... .................... 5,397.43
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 553.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 553.32
Thomas Goffus:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,958.31 .................... .................... .................... 8,958.31
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 710.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 710.32
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 601.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 601.89
Lithuania ................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,021.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,021.47
William G.P. Monahan:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,819.76 .................... .................... .................... 10,819.76
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 355.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 355.16
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6400 November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 556.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 556.89
Michael Noblet:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,708.27 .................... .................... .................... 12,708.27
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 315.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 315.16
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 546.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 546.89
Lithuania ................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 951.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 951.47
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9.68 .................... .................... .................... 9.68
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 677.68 .................... 677.68
Eric Trager:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,324.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,324.93
Pakistan .................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... 287.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 287.30
Tajikistan .................................................................................................. Somoni .................................................. .................... 562.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 562.38
Mariah Cooper:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,321.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,321.93
Pakistan .................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... 425.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 425.00
Tajikistan .................................................................................................. Somoni .................................................. .................... 795.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 795.14
Delegation Expenses: *
Pakistan .................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... .................... .................... 208.06 .................... 204.26 .................... 412.32
Tajikistan .................................................................................................. Somoni .................................................. .................... .................... .................... 170.28 .................... 571.07 .................... 741.35
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 222.70 .................... .................... .................... 222.70
Jackie Kerber:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,632.83 .................... .................... .................... 13,632.83
Armenia ..................................................................................................... Dram ..................................................... .................... 390.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.56
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... 262.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 262.87
Azerbaijan ................................................................................................. Manat ................................................... .................... 259.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 259.17
Kazakhstan ............................................................................................... Tenge .................................................... .................... 1,174.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,174.04
Jonathan Epstein:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,745.72 .................... .................... .................... 13,745.72
Armenia ..................................................................................................... Dram ..................................................... .................... 390.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.56
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... 254.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 254.33
Azerbaijan ................................................................................................. Manat ................................................... .................... 259.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 259.17
Kazakhstan ............................................................................................... Tenge .................................................... .................... 1,109.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,109.98
Delegation Expenses: *
Armenia ..................................................................................................... Dram ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... 930.22 .................... .................... .................... 930.22
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 768.68 .................... 100.00 .................... 868.68
Azerbaijan ................................................................................................. Manat ................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,516.00 .................... 44.84 .................... 1,560.84
Kazakhstan ............................................................................................... Tenge .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,827.86 .................... .................... .................... 2,827.86
Senator Kevin Cramer:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,048.74 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,048.74
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 928.77 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 928.77
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,104.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,104.12
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 297.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 297.40
Delegation Expenses: *
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 270.53 .................... 37.46 .................... 307.99
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 17.08 .................... 121.54 .................... 138.62
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 387.69 .................... 387.69
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 344.15 .................... 344.15
Gwyneth Woolwine:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,402.83 .................... .................... .................... 5,402.83
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 816.61 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 816.61
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 610.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 610.16
Dustin Walker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,777.23 .................... .................... .................... 10,777.23
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 954.81 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 954.81
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 560.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 560.27
Delegation Expenses: *
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,287.97 .................... .................... .................... 1,287.97
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,052.98 .................... .................... .................... 1,052.98
Senator Doug Jones:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 1,176.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,176.46
Delegation Expenses: *
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 397.10 .................... 397.10
Dustin Walker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,294.93 .................... .................... .................... 8,294.93
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,577.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,577.36
Thomas Goffus:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,331.95 .................... .................... .................... 8,331.95
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,713.77 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,713.77
Ozge Guzelsu:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,999.14 .................... .................... .................... 7,999.14
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 896.77 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 896.77
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,705.00 .................... .................... .................... 2,705.00
Katherine Sutton:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,345.63 .................... .................... .................... 13,345.63
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,662.91 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,662.91
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,032.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,032.00
Senator Tammy Duckworth:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,156.23 .................... .................... .................... 11,156.23
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 665.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 665.70
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... 840.69 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 840.69
Matt Lampert:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,334.93 .................... .................... .................... 7,334.93
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 793.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 793.70
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... 931.19 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 931.19
Aline Sredni:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,830.93 .................... .................... .................... 6,830.93
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 894.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 894.70
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... 956.19 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 956.19
Delegation Expenses: *
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... 152.00 .................... 521.00 .................... 673.00
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 649.59 .................... 1,009.54 .................... 1,659.13
Senator Tom Cotton:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,833.73 .................... .................... .................... 7,833.73
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,265.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,265.62
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 414.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 414.84
Netherlands .............................................................................................. Euro ...................................................... .................... 267.15 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 267.15
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,557.00 .................... .................... .................... 3,557.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,337.96 .................... .................... .................... 1,337.96
Netherlands .............................................................................................. Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 110.70 .................... .................... .................... 110.70
Senator Rick Scott:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,717.77 .................... .................... .................... 3,717.77
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6401
November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 446.74 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 446.74
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 54.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 54.98
Paul Bonicelli:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,889.28 .................... .................... .................... 3,889.28
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 514.19 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 514.19
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 65.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 65.45
Collin Lomagistro:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,123.46 .................... .................... .................... 4,123.46
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 446.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 446.47
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 57.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 57.43
Delegation Expenses: *
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,050.51 .................... 1,050.51
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,289.00 .................... 1,289.00
Senator David Perdue:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,923.73 .................... .................... .................... 8,923.73
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... 594.24 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 594.24
Phillippines ............................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 249.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 249.33
Delegation Expenses: *
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 19.00 .................... 19.00
Phillippines ............................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 241.41 .................... 241.41
Senator Angus S. King, Jr.:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,735.59 .................... .................... .................... 8,735.59
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... 565.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 565.68
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... 289.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 289.04
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Riyal ..................................................... .................... 377.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 377.75
Stephen M. Smith:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,735.59 .................... .................... .................... 8,735.59
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... 565.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 565.68
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... 289.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 289.04
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Riyal ..................................................... .................... 378.23 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 378.23
Delegation Expenses: *
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... .................... .................... 1,948.75 .................... 1,023.45 .................... 2,972.20
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 547.01 .................... 547.01
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Riyal ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,965.86 .................... 2,965.86
Anthony Pankuch:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,853.03 .................... .................... .................... 11,853.03
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krone .................................................... .................... 288.48 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 288.48
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 885.86 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 885.86
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 869.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 869.52
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 206.28 .................... .................... .................... 206.28
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 51,951.78 .................... 290,848.13 .................... 22,557.91 .................... 365,357.82
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1997.
SENATOR JAMES INHOFE,
Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, Oct. 25, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Dan Burgess:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63 .................... .................... .................... 14,473.63
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,831.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,831.20
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,210.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,210.83
Delegation Expenses: *
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,503.61 .................... 1,503.61
Senator Roger Wicker:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,139.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,139.98
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 420.00 .................... 420.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 340.34 .................... 340.34
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 138.61 .................... 138.61
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.50 .................... 917.50
Senator Mike Lee:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,139.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,139.98
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 420.00 .................... 420.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 340.34 .................... 340.34
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 138.61 .................... 138.61
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.50 .................... 917.50
Allyson Bell:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,139.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,139.98
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 420.00 .................... 420.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 340.34 .................... 340.34
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 138.61 .................... 138.61
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.50 .................... 917.50
Sara Drake:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,139.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,139.98
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 420.00 .................... 420.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 340.34 .................... 340.34
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 138.61 .................... 138.61
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6402 November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.50 .................... 917.50
Stacy McBride:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 955.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,139.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,139.98
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 918.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 918.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 308.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 420.00 .................... 420.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 340.34 .................... 340.34
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 138.61 .................... 138.61
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.50 .................... 917.50
Senator John Thune:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 463.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 463.04
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,308.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,308.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,385.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,385.47
Delegation Expenses: *
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 126.94 .................... 126.94
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,079.10 .................... 1,079.10
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 137.22 .................... 137.22
Daffnei Riedel:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 463.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 463.04
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,268.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,268.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,385.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,385.47
Delegation Expenses: *
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 126.94 .................... 126.94
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,079.10 .................... 1,079.10
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 137.22 .................... 137.22
Senator Mike Lee:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,453.87 .................... .................... .................... 14,453.87
Russia ....................................................................................................... Ruble .................................................... .................... 1,385.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,385.00
Allyson Bell:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,208,77 .................... .................... .................... 12,208.77
Russia ....................................................................................................... Ruble .................................................... .................... 1,385.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,385.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Russia ....................................................................................................... Ruble .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,452.00 .................... 1,452.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 28,689.95 .................... 41,136.27 .................... 14,724.38 .................... 84,550.60
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR ROGER WICKER,
Chairman, Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
Oct. 28, 2019.
AMENDED 2ND QTR CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22,
P.L. 95–384—22 U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1, TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Lisa Murkowski:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,103,73 .................... .................... .................... 6,103.73
Finland ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 272.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 272.53
Senator Lisa Murkowski:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53 .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53
China ........................................................................................................ Yuan ..................................................... .................... 583.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 583.25
Isaac Edwards:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53 .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53
China ........................................................................................................ Yuan ..................................................... .................... 585.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 585.25
Senator Lisa Murkowski:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,280.73 .................... .................... .................... 1,280.73
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 326.72 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 326.72
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 91.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 91.68
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 536.99 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 536.99
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 214.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 214.42
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 310.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 310.46
Senator Joe Manchin III:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 328.39 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 328.39
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 88.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 88.35
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 551.85 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 551.85
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 229.81 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 229.81
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 317.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 317.37
Senator John Barrasso:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 320.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 320.66
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 88.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 88.35
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 536.99 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 536.99
Senator John Barrasso:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 244.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 244.30
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 310.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 310.46
Senator Maria Cantwell:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,615.63 .................... .................... .................... 7,615.63
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 310.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 310.43
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 93.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 93.17
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 584.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 584.04
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 234.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 234.04
Brian Hughes:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 317.72 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 317.72
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 91.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 91.67
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 510.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 510.35
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 249.15 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 249.15
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 351.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 351.13
Lane West, Jr.:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 326.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 326.42
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 88.34 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 88.34
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 510.34 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 510.34
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 250.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 250.16
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 310.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 310.22
Isaac Edwards:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 346.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 346.35
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 91.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 91.67
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6403
November 5, 2019
AMENDED 2ND QTR CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22,
P.L. 95–384—22 U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1, TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 510.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 510.35
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 235.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 235.38
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 310.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 310.22
Karina Borger:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 323.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 323.28
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 91.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 91.67
Karina Borger:
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 518.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 518.36
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 235.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 235.68
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 363.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 363.32
Rebecca Bonner:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 363.48 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 363.48
Denmark ................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 91.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 91.67
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 500.97 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 500.97
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 250.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 250.80
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 348.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 348.30
Delegation Expenses:*
China ........................................................................................................ Yuan ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,039.00 .................... 1.039.00
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,399.98 .................... 1,399.98
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,909.00 .................... 5,909.00
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 8,683.73 .................... 8,683.73
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,740.00 .................... 1,740.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 14,746.51 .................... 46,661.15 .................... 18,771.71 .................... 80,179.37
*Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR LISA MURKOWSKI,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, Oct. 3, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Isaac Edwards:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,798.43 .................... .................... .................... 3,798.43
Micronesia ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... 44.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 44.00
Bryan Petit:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,921.43 .................... .................... .................... 3,921.43
Micronesia ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... 111.94 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 111.94
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 155.94 .................... 7,719.86 .................... .................... .................... 7,875.80
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR LISA MURKOWSKI,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, Oct. 3, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Andrew Harding:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,127.33 .................... .................... .................... 2,127.33
Switzerland ............................................................................................... Swiss franc .......................................... .................... 2,256.06 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,256.06
Amber Bland:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,172.06 .................... .................... .................... 6,172.06
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 907.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 907.38
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 618.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 618.98
Romania ................................................................................................... Leu ........................................................ .................... 447.97 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 447.97
Delegation Expenses: *
Romania ................................................................................................... Leu ........................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 914.99 .................... 914.99
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 4,230.39 .................... 8,299.39 .................... 914.99 .................... 13,444.77
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JOHN BARRASSO,
Chairman, Committee on Environment and Public Works, Oct. 25, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FINANCE FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Tim Scott:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 548.74 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 548.74
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 820.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 820.13
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,202.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.35
Jennifer DeCasper:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 619.51 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 619.51
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 907.93 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 907.93
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,291.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,291.43
Delegation Expenses: *
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 263.06 .................... 263.06
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6404 November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FINANCE FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,734.00 .................... 1,734.00
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 274.44 .................... 274.44
Rory Heslington:
Cote d’lvoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... 838.61 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 838.61
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,131.43 .................... .................... .................... 10,131.43
Virginia Lenahan:
Cote d’lvoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... 698.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 698.32
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,231.43 .................... .................... .................... 10,231.43
Lila Nieves-Lee:
Cote d’lvoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... 785.48 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 785.48
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,231.03 .................... .................... .................... 10,231.03
Adam Farris:
Cote d’lvoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... 859.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 859.44
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,231.53 .................... .................... .................... 10,231.53
Totals ................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 8,571.94 .................... 40,825.42 .................... 2,271.50 .................... 51,668.86
* Delegation expenses include expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds agreed
to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR CHUCK GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on Finance, Oct. 15, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator John Barrasso:
Kuwait ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 264.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 264.89
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... 272.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 272.33
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,342,23 .................... .................... .................... 16,342.23
Charles Ziegler:
Kuwait ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 264.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 264.89
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... 272.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 272.33
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,939.73 .................... .................... .................... 12,939.73
Delegation Expenses:
Kuwait ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,333.00 .................... 1,333.00
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 285.32 .................... 285.32
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 217.11 .................... 217.11
Senator John Barrasso:
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 531.71 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 531.71
Croatia ...................................................................................................... Kuna ..................................................... .................... 350.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 350.27
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 958.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 958.14
Delegation Expenses:
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,796.80 .................... 1,796.80
Croatia ...................................................................................................... Kuna ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,879.20 .................... 2,879.20
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,186.25 .................... 3,186.25
Senator Benjamin Cardin:
Northern Ireland ....................................................................................... Pounds .................................................. .................... 972.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 972.70
England ..................................................................................................... Pounds .................................................. .................... 740.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 740.43
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 754.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 754.00
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 1,016.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,016.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 933.90 .................... .................... .................... 933.90
Debbie Yamada:
Northern Ireland ....................................................................................... Pounds .................................................. .................... 923.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 923.03
England ..................................................................................................... Pounds .................................................. .................... 709.48 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 709.48
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... 648.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 648.92
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 1,086.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,086.42
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 898.90 .................... .................... .................... 898.90
Delegation Expenses:
United Kingdom & Northern Ireland ........................................................ Pounds .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,344.05 .................... 1,344.05
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 558.33 .................... 558.33
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 142.13 .................... 142.13
Senator Robert Menendez:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Pesos .................................................... .................... 2,739.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,739.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,214.18 .................... .................... .................... 6,214.18
Fred Turner:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Pesos .................................................... .................... 2,720.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,720.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,743.28 .................... .................... .................... 6,743.28
Brandon Yoder:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Pesos .................................................... .................... 2,791.85 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,791.85
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,985.28 .................... .................... .................... 3,985.28
Delegation Expenses:
Colombia ................................................................................................... Pesos .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 14,258.00 .................... 14,258.00
Senator Christopher Murphy:
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 196.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.27
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 450.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 450.03
Serbia ........................................................................................................ Serbian Dinar ....................................... .................... 336.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 336.17
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,572.53 .................... .................... .................... 13,572.53
Jessica Elledge:
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 196.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.27
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 450.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 450.03
Serbia ........................................................................................................ Serbian Dinar ....................................... .................... 336.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 336.17
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,572.53 .................... .................... .................... 13,572.53
Lydia Westlake:
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 281.77 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.77
Serbia ........................................................................................................ Serbian Dinar ....................................... .................... 240.99 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 240.99
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,117.23 .................... .................... .................... 14,117.23
Delegation Expenses:
Kosovo ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,428.62 .................... 1,428.62
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 230.83 .................... 230.83
Serbia ........................................................................................................ Serbian Dinar ....................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 429.00 .................... 429.00
Senator Todd Young:
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... 542.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 542.46
Oman ........................................................................................................ Dinar ..................................................... .................... 296.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 296.82
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Riyal ..................................................... .................... 382.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 382.62
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 17,105.49 .................... .................... .................... 17,105.49
Brandt Anderson:
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... 551.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 551.55
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6405
November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Oman ........................................................................................................ Dinar ..................................................... .................... 305.91 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 305.91
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Rival ..................................................... .................... 391.71 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 391.71
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,971.99 .................... .................... .................... 16,971.99
Delegation Expenses:
United Arab Emirates ............................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,972.20 .................... 2,972.20
Oman ........................................................................................................ Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 547.01 .................... 547.01
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Riyal ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,965.86 .................... 2,965.86
Viviana Bovo:
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... 511.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 511.00
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 235.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 235.05
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,988.07 .................... .................... .................... 1,988.07
Victor Cervino:
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... 591.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 591.18
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 363.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 363.05
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,160.26 .................... .................... .................... 3,160.26
Delegation Expenses:
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 260.00 .................... 260.00
Margaret Dougherty:
Kenya ........................................................................................................ Shilling ................................................. .................... 2,114.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,114.00
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... 670.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 670.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,669.38 .................... .................... .................... 8,669.38
John Tomaszewski:
Kenya ........................................................................................................ Shilling ................................................. .................... 2,154.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,154.00
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... 670.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 670.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,669.38 .................... .................... .................... 8,669.38
Delegation Expenses:
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 176.82 .................... 176.82
Heather Flynn:
Kenya ........................................................................................................ Shilling ................................................. .................... 1,115.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,115.00
South Sudan ............................................................................................. Pound ................................................... .................... 80.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 80.00
Zimbabwe ................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,459.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,459.16
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,399.03 .................... .................... .................... 10,399.03
Delegation Expenses:
Kenya ........................................................................................................ Shilling ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 400.00 .................... 400.00
Zimbabwe ................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,689.27 .................... 2,689.27
Robert Hunter:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,022.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,022.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 700.15 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 700.15
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 804.50 .................... .................... .................... 804.50
Delegation Expenses:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 643.98 .................... 643.98
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 526.49 .................... 526.49
Igor Khrestin:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 776.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 776.21
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Hong Kong Dollar ................................. .................... 816.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 816.21
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Ringgit .................................................. .................... 196.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.27
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... 323.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 323.56
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 242.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 242.33
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,711.33 .................... .................... .................... 5,711.33
Zachary Hosford:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 827.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 827.08
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... 768.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 768.80
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Ringgit .................................................. .................... 177.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 177.35
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... 297.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 297.16
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 228.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 228.16
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,565.23 .................... .................... .................... 7,565.23
Matt Squeri:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 809.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 809.04
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... 796.06 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 796.06
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Ringgit .................................................. .................... 181.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 181.35
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... 305.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 305.80
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 288.01 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 288.01
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,174.23 .................... .................... .................... 7,174.23
Brandt Anderson:
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Ringgit .................................................. .................... 196.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.27
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... 323.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 323.56
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 299.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 299.76
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,841.73 .................... .................... .................... 7,841.73
Delegation Expenses:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 725.34 .................... 725.34
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,266.34 .................... 1,266.34
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Ringgit .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 30.28 .................... 30.28
Indonesia .................................................................................................. Rupiah .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 247.02 .................... 247.02
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 483.40 .................... 483.40
Joshua Klein:
Mongolia ................................................................................................... Tugrik ................................................... .................... 375.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 375.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,851.43 .................... .................... .................... 2,851.43
Delegation Expenses:
Mongolia ................................................................................................... Tugrik ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.07 .................... 390.07
Damian Murphy:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 368.11 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 368.11
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... 915.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.37
Sri Lanka .................................................................................................. Rupee ................................................... .................... 768.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 768.03
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,529.23 .................... .................... .................... 4,529.23
Naz Durakoglu:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 426.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.35
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... 1,084.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,084.57
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,258.24 .................... .................... .................... 5,258.24
Delegation Expenses:
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 770.43 .................... 770.43
Sri Lanka .................................................................................................. Rupee ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 105.00 .................... 105.00
Andrew Olson:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,400.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,400.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 377.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 377.00
Lebanon .................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 470.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 470.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,046.54 .................... .................... .................... 4,046.54
Colin Brooks:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 1,400.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,400.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 377.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 377.00
Lebanon .................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... 470.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 470.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,046.54 .................... .................... .................... 4,046.54
Delegation Expenses:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 769.69 .................... 769.69
Lebanon .................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,563.28 .................... 2,563.28
Scott Richardson:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 327.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 327.64
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6406 November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 546.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 546.65
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 848.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 848.59
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,076.03 .................... .................... .................... 3,076.03
Matthew Sullivan:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 327.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 327.64
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 327.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 327.64
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 522.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 522.65
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,076.03 .................... .................... .................... 3,076.30
Delegation Expenses:
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,204.21 .................... 1,204.21
Christopher Socha:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 869.24 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 869.24
Christopher Socha:
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... 550.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 550.00
South Africa .............................................................................................. Rand ..................................................... .................... 648.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 648.75
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,534.23 .................... .................... .................... 9,534.23
John Tomaszewski:
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... 659.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 659.32
South Africa .............................................................................................. Rand ..................................................... .................... 632.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 632.57
Zimbabwe ................................................................................................. RTGS Dollar .......................................... .................... 1,201.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,201.50
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,519.37 .................... .................... .................... 11,519.37
Delegation Expenses:
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 46.44 .................... 46.44
South Africa .............................................................................................. Rand ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 853.91 .................... 853.91
Zimbabwe ................................................................................................. RTGS Dollar .......................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,221.00 .................... 4,221.00
Lowell Schwartz:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 488.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 488.00
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,153.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,153.76
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,188.83 .................... .................... .................... 3,188.83
Daniel Ricchetti:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 476.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 476.13
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,021.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,021.33
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,223.83 .................... .................... .................... 3,223.83
Delegation Expenses:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 158.24 .................... 158.24
Hannah Thoburn:
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 420.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 420.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 415.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 415.60
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... 744.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 744.40
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,429.43 .................... .................... .................... 5,429.43
Delegation Expenses: *
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 649.43 .................... 649.43
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,017.94 .................... 1,017.94
Lydia Westlake:
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 852.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 852.79
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 602.07 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 602.07
Romania ................................................................................................... Leu ........................................................ .................... 398.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 398.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,075.83 .................... .................... .................... 11,075.83
Delegation Expenses: *
Romania ................................................................................................... Leu ........................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 914.98 .................... 914.98
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 64,978.43 .................... 256,235.97 .................... 55,687.27 .................... 376,901.67
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1997.
SENATOR JAMES RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations, Oct. 25, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Lindsey Graham:
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 1,710.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,710.00
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... 372.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 372.75
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 662.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 662.25
Craig Abele:
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... 1,710.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,710.00
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... 372.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 372.75
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 662.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 662.25
Delegation Expenses: *
Israel ......................................................................................................... New Shekel ........................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,252.59 .................... 6.252.59
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 455.86 .................... 455.86
Egypt ......................................................................................................... Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 163.55 .................... 163.55
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 563.39 .................... 563.39
UAE ........................................................................................................... Dirham .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 510.09 .................... 510.09
Senator John Cornyn:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... 31.09 .................... .................... .................... 2,621.09
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 493.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.29
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,798.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,798.08
Donald Bergin:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... 31.09 .................... .................... .................... 2,621.09
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 493.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.29
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,798.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,798.08
Delegation Expenses: *
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,349.07 .................... 1,349.07
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,350.51 .................... 2,350.51
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,325.24 .................... 4,325.24
Senator Lindsey Graham:
Montengro ................................................................................................. Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,357.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,357.00
Croatia ...................................................................................................... Kuna ..................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.00
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 761.74 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 761.74
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse:
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,357.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,357.00
Croatia ...................................................................................................... Kuna ..................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.00
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 760.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 760.98
Alice James:
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,357.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,357.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6407
November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Croatia ...................................................................................................... Kuna ..................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.00
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 646.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 646.96
Matt Rimkunas:
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,357.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,357.00
Croatia ...................................................................................................... Kuna ..................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.00
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 646.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 646.96
Delegation Expenses: *
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,532.80 .................... 2,532.80
Croatia ...................................................................................................... Kuna ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11,516.80 .................... 11,516.80
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 12,745.03 .................... 12,745.03
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 26,621.38 .................... 62.18 .................... 42,764.93 .................... 69,448.49
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, Oct. 28, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Andrew Polesovsky:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,243.33 .................... .................... .................... 1,243.33
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,168.97 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,168.97
Andrew Dockham:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,068.33 .................... .................... .................... 1,068.33
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,150.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,150.33
Brandon Reavis:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,068.33 .................... .................... .................... 1,068.33
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,150.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,150.33
Gabrielle D’Adamo Singer:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,621.03 .................... .................... .................... 1,621.03
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 162.72 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 162.72
Guatamala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 365.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 365.18
Lydia Westlake:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,397.03 .................... .................... .................... 1,397.03
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 162.72 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 162.72
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 365.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 365.18
Delegation Expenses:*
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 153.00 .................... 153.00
Delegation Expenses:*
Guatemela ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,160.27 .................... 1,160.27
Senator Kyrsten Sinema:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,406.83 .................... .................... .................... 15,406.83
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 752.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 752.62
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 387.39 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 387.39
Michael Brownlie:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,293.73 .................... .................... .................... 14,293.73
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,000.81 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,000.81
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,103.81 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,103.81
Delegation Expenses:*
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,543.24 .................... 5,543.24
Delegation Expenses:*
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,225.00 .................... 3,225.00
Michael Flynn:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,231.93 .................... .................... .................... 3,231.93
Estonia ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 370.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 370.35
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 927.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 927.17
Joseph C. Folio III:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,231.93 .................... .................... .................... 3,231.93
Estonia ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 370.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 370.35
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 927.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 927.17
Delegation Expenses:*
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,715.63 .................... 1,715.63
Senator Ron Johnson:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,371.33 .................... .................... .................... 14,371.33
Serbia ........................................................................................................ Dinar ..................................................... .................... 241.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 241.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 293.71 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 293.71
Delegation Expenses:*
Serbia ........................................................................................................ Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 143.00 .................... 143.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 76.95 .................... 76.95
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 10,920.72 .................... 56,933.80 .................... 12,017.09 .................... 79,871.61
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RON JOHNSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs,
Oct. 25, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Lindsay Dearing:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 143.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 143.18
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 349.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 349.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,602.53 .................... .................... .................... 14,602.53
Simon Coon:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 143.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 143.18
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6408 November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 349.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 349.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,602.53 .................... .................... .................... 14,602.53
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 984.36 .................... 29,205.06 .................... .................... .................... 30,189.42
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JOHNNY ISAKSON,
Chairman, Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Oct. 7, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator John Cornyn .......................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 577.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 577.50
............................................................... .................... 765.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 765.40
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,865.53 .................... .................... .................... 13,865.53
Jacob Barton ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 577.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 577.50
............................................................... .................... 632.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 632.40
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,676.40 .................... .................... .................... 8,676.40
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,219.46 .................... 3,219.46
Senator Richard Burr ........................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... 1,504.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,504.50
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,802.83 .................... .................... .................... 9,802.83
Senator Marco Rubio ......................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,504.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,504.50
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,769.03 .................... .................... .................... 12,769.03
Chris Joyner ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,504.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,504.50
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,234.03 .................... .................... .................... 14,234.03
Vanessa Le ........................................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... 1,504.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,504.50
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,234.03 .................... .................... .................... 14,234.03
Brian Walsh ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,504.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,504.50
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,799.43 .................... .................... .................... 6,799.43
Senator Ron Wyden ........................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,394.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,394.67
............................................................... .................... 1,162.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,162.00
............................................................... .................... 1,100.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,100.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,391.94 .................... .................... .................... 12,391.94
Ben Widness ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,203.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,203.47
............................................................... .................... 1,092.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,092.00
............................................................... .................... 1,100.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,100.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,391.94 .................... .................... .................... 12,391.94
Isaiah Akin ......................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 892.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 892.32
............................................................... .................... 1,202.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,202.00
............................................................... .................... 1,100.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,100.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,391.94 .................... .................... .................... 12,391.94
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 11,129.11 .................... 11,129.11
Jacob Barton ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 762.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 762.33
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,656.23 .................... .................... .................... 12,656.23
Jon Estridge ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,223.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.35
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,705.50 .................... .................... .................... 13,705.50
James Sauls ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,223.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.35
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,975.23 .................... .................... .................... 12,975.23
Russell Willig ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 904.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 904.33
............................................................... .................... 804.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 804.60
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,278.43 .................... .................... .................... 11,278.43
Maria Mahler-Haug ........................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 452.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 452.33
............................................................... .................... 804.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 804.60
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,279.73 .................... .................... .................... 11,279.73
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 100.06 .................... 100.06
Ryan White ........................................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... 492.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 492.14
............................................................... .................... 989.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 989.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,615.24 .................... .................... .................... 16,615.24
Emily Clise ......................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 492.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 492.14
............................................................... .................... 1,060.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,060.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,615.24 .................... .................... .................... 15,615.24
Mike Casey ........................................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... 116.56 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 116.56
............................................................... .................... 590.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 590.36
............................................................... .................... 894.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 894.09
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,392.03 .................... .................... .................... 12,392.03
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 909.86 .................... 909.86
Jon Estridge ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 3,030.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,030.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,131.34 .................... .................... .................... 6,131.34
Jacob Barton ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 2,415.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,415.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,131.34 .................... .................... .................... 6,131.34
James Sauls ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 2,415.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,415.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,635.84 .................... .................... .................... 9,635.84
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 872.47 .................... 872.47
Brian Walsh ....................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 670.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 670.00
............................................................... .................... 398.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 398.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,242.63 .................... .................... .................... 4,242.63
Jim Catella ........................................................................................................ ............................................................... .................... 369.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 369.38
............................................................... .................... 698.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 698.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,856.63 .................... .................... .................... 3,856.63
Brett Freedman .................................................................................................. ............................................................... .................... 292.49 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 292.49
............................................................... .................... 698.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 698.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,242.63 .................... .................... .................... 4,242.63
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 194.00 .................... 194.00
Chris Howell ...................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 950.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 950.73
............................................................... .................... 722.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 722.00
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,692.43 .................... .................... .................... 13,692.43
Maria Mahler-Haug ........................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 950.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 950.73
............................................................... .................... 620.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 620.16
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,692.43 .................... .................... .................... 13,692.43
Russell Willig ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 950.73 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 950.73
............................................................... .................... 722.91 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 722.91
............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,692.43 .................... .................... .................... 13,692.43
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6409
November 5, 2019
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 47,034.07 .................... 300,662.43 .................... 16,424.96 .................... 364,121.46
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RICHARD BURR,
Chairman, Committee on Intelligence, Aug. 2, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Roger F. Wicker:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 493.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.29
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 4,029.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,029.96
Kyle Parker:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 396.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 396.14
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 2,798.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,798.08
Janice Helwig:
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 1,923.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,923.08
Everett Price:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 396.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 396.14
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 2,993.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,993.17
Rachel Bauman:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 396.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 396.14
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 3,148.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,148.08
Danica Starks:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 396.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 396.14
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 2,798.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,798.08
Alex Tiersky:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 396.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 396.14
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 2,798.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,798.08
Mark Toner:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 485.14 .................... 8,851.70 .................... .................... .................... 9,336.84
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 2,993.17 .................... 1,757.30 .................... .................... .................... 4,750.47
Stacy Hope:
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 485.14 .................... 10,601.03 .................... .................... .................... 11,086.17
Jordan Warlick:
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 875.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 875.00
Paul Massaro:
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 3,591.81 .................... 3,373.00 .................... .................... .................... 6,964.81
Bob Hand:
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... 4,190.44 .................... 1,732.23 .................... .................... .................... 5,922.67
Delegation Expenses:*
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound Sterling ...................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 14,112.56 .................... 14,112.56
Delegation Expenses:*
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 28,206.15 .................... 28,206.15
Delegation Expenses:*
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euros .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
Kyle Parker:
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 1,329.76 .................... 11,414.43 .................... .................... .................... 12,744.19
Delegation Expenses:*
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,528.48 .................... 3,528.48
Kyle Parker:
Mongolia ................................................................................................... Tögrög ................................................... .................... 762.50 .................... 11,013.83 .................... .................... .................... 11,776.33
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 2,107.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,107.57
Delegation Expenses:*
Mongolia ................................................................................................... Tögrög ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
Delegation Expenses:*
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 55,323.05 .................... 48,743.52 .................... 45,847.19 .................... 149,913.76
* Accurate Delegation Expenses to be amended.
SENATOR ROGER WICKER,
Chairman, U.S. Helsinki Commission, Oct. 30, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), MAJORITY LEADER FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Robert Karem:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,679.63 .................... .................... .................... 12,679.63
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... 410.39 .................... 226.19 .................... .................... .................... 636.58
Burma ....................................................................................................... Kyat ...................................................... .................... 554.00 .................... 200.00 .................... .................... .................... 754.00
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... 759.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 759.32
Delegation Expenses: *
Bangladesh ............................................................................................... Taka ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,153.55 .................... 3,153.55
Burma ....................................................................................................... Kyat ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,861.00 .................... 5,861.00
Thailand .................................................................................................... Baht ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 503.46 .................... 503.46
Laura Dove:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,369.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,369.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 390.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.22
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,022.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,022.00
Dr. Brian Monahan:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 2,325.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,325.00
Poland ....................................................................................................... Zloty ...................................................... .................... 493.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.29
Luxembourg .............................................................................................. Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,532.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,532.63
Robert Karem:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,304.43 .................... .................... .................... 12,304.43
Sweden ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... 1,282.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,282.62
Finland ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 270.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 270.52
Norway ...................................................................................................... Krone .................................................... .................... 1,053.38 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,053.38
Delegation Expenses: *
Sweden ...................................................................................................... Krona .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,966.00 .................... 1,966.00
Finland ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,232.12 .................... 1,232.12
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6410 November 5, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), MAJORITY LEADER FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 12,462.37 .................... 25,410.25 .................... 12,716.13 .................... 50,588.75
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR MITCH McCONNELL,
Majority Leader, Oct. 28, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), DEMOCRATIC LEADER FOR TRAVEL FROM JULY 1 TO SEPT. 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Gary Myrick:
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,439.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,439.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 390.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.22
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,022.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,022.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 2,851.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,851.22
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR CHARLES E. SCHUMER,
Democratic Leader, Oct. 9, 2019.
h
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 4842
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 4842) to authorize the Sec-
retary of State to provide funds for a United
States pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I now ask for a second reading and, in
order to place the bill on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bill will receive its second read-
ing on the next legislative day.
f
PREVENTING ANIMAL CRUELTY
AND TORTURE ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 724
and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The bill (H.R. 724) to revise section 48 of
title 18, United States Code, and for other
purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the bill
be considered read a third time and
passed and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 724) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
CONGRATULATING THE WASH-
INGTON NATIONALS ON WINNING
THE 2019 MAJOR LEAGUE BASE-
BALL WORLD SERIES
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 407, which was sub-
mitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 407) congratulating
the Washington Nationals on winning the
2019 Major League Baseball World Series.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that I be
added as a cosponsor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 407) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 6, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Wednesday, No-
vember 6th; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Rudofsky nomination
under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:02 p.m., adjourned until Wednes-
day, November 6, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nomination received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
STEPHEN HAHN, OF TEXAS, TO BE COMMISSIONER OF
FOOD AND DRUGS, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, VICE SCOTT GOTTLIEB.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate November 5, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
DAVID AUSTIN TAPP, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE A JUDGE OF
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS FOR A
TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A05NO6.017 S05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1397
November 5, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF THE KANSAS
CITY CHIEFS’ 60TH ANNIVER-
SARY SEASON
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the sixtieth season of
the Kansas City Chiefs football and the
unremitting dedication of their fans. As the
U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth Con-
gressional District and a lifelong Chiefs fan, I
am proud to honor Kansas City’s home team
with this CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
Sixty years ago, the Chiefs were founded as
the Dallas Texans by the widely revered
Lamar Hunt. Recognized as one of the great-
est sportsmen in American history, Hunt
served as the guiding force behind the forma-
tion of both the American Football League and
the Kansas City Chiefs franchise. Hunt’s de-
termination and influence served as the cata-
lyst that would bring his ‘‘impossible dream’’ to
reality when his league took to the field for the
’60 season. Hunt continued to chase this
dream as he moved his Dallas Texans team
to Kansas City where the organization would
be renamed as the Kansas City Chiefs.
Hunt’s vision for the organization was re-
affirmed on June 8, 1966 when the AFL–NFL
merger was announced by NFL Commissioner
Pete Rozelle, and the Kansas City Chiefs
went on to participate in the inaugural Super
Bowl against the Green Bay Packers on Janu-
ary 15, 1967. Only three years after that inau-
gural game, the Chiefs claimed Kansas City’s
first major sports championship victory over
the Minnesota Vikings in Super Bowl IV. Not
only did Hunt’s passion help put Kansas City
on the ‘‘big league’’ map, his influence and
commitment helped pave the way for much of
the modern growth of professional football.
In the late 1960s, Hunt played an integral
role in the original development plans for Ar-
rowhead Stadium, a facility which provided the
Chiefs and their fans with one of the most de-
cided homefield advantages in all of sports.
While other venues of a similar vintage have
long since been termed obsolete or have been
demolished, Arrowhead continues to serve as
a point of pride for Chiefs and fans alike. In a
true exemplification of the avid nature of
Chiefs fans, Arrowhead recently broke the
record for the loudest stadium on September
29, 2014. According to the Guinness Book of
World Records, no sports fans in the world are
louder than Kansas City Chiefs fans at Arrow-
head Stadium, registering a record 142.2 deci-
bels—louder than a jet taking off from an air-
craft carrier.
Additionally, under Hunt’s stewardship, the
Chiefs developed an intensely loyal fan base,
not just in Mid-America, but across the country
and the globe. Hunt took great satisfaction in
the fact that the Chiefs boasted season-ticket
holders from forty-eight of the fifty states, the
District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Can-
ada. He was also appreciative of the fact that
Kansas City was selected to represent the
NFL on the world stage in four American Bowl
contests: Berlin, Germany (1990), Tokyo,
Japan (1994, 1998), and Monterrey, Mexico
(1996). Like jazz was to the music scene or
Royals baseball to America’s favorite pastime,
the Chiefs brought Kansas City to the forefront
of the national consciousness.
In the decades to come, the organization
would experience many highs and lows, in-
cluding a promising ’71 season that featured a
team record eleven Pro Bowl performers and
ended dramatically in the longest game in NFL
history, an AFC Divisional Playoff game
played on Christmas day. It took 82:40 and
double overtime to close out the game. This
loss served as the Chiefs’ last playoff appear-
ance for fifteen years. The years following
brought trials and tribulations, but strength-
ened the team overall, earning them NFL play-
off appearances in 1986, 1990 through 1995,
1997, 2003, 2006, 2010, 2013, and 2015 to
2017.
Today, Kansas City and ‘‘Chiefs Kingdom’’
continues a custom throughout the region that
was forged by charity and the love of the
game—Red Friday. Red Friday began in 1992
as an idea pitched to Lamar Hunt by the first
President of the Red Coaters, the late Jim
Shultz. The Red Coaters were founded in
1963, and members were obliged to sell tick-
ets and received a red coat for selling so
many. Made up of businessmen and women
dedicated to the Chiefs and their community,
the Red Coaters still share the same mission
of giving today.
The first Red Friday featured the Red
Coaters and Hunt himself on the streets of
Kansas City selling newspapers with a special
Chiefs edition to benefit local charities. After
debuting on the west side of town, Red Friday
moved north to the river, back to Westport,
then to the Arrowhead parking lot. The Chiefs-
themed newspapers turned into Red Friday
magazines. Then those Red Friday magazines
turned into Chiefs Kingdom flags sold to raise
money for charity. The tradition continues to
unite Kansas Citians and Chiefs fans across
the country, transcending generations and
bringing together a city of nearly 500,000 for
a common cause to paint the town red.
Today, the Kansas City Chiefs continue to
breathe life into the dream Lamar Hunt had
when he founded the organization through its
sustained ability to bring fans together in a
true display of community and pride. The pro-
found legacy the Kansas City Chiefs have
paved builds upon and preserves a rich his-
tory that has given a way for many athletes
and members of the organization to inspire,
unify, and empower generations of football
players and spectators alike.
Madam Speaker, please join with me as we
commemorate the sixtieth anniversary season
of the Kansas City Chiefs.
IN HONOR OF CHARLES M. HOGAN
HON. BRETT GUTHRIE
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life and service of Charles M.
‘‘Charlie’’ Hogan of Park City, Kentucky.
Mr. Hogan began his service in the U.S.
Army and then proudly served in the U.S. Air
Force for over twenty years. Mr. Hogan re-
ceived an Air Force Commendation for his
brave service in Vietnam. A champion for his
fellow veterans, Mr. Hogan was awarded the
Barren County Patriot Award in 2004. He
spearheaded the effort to a veterans’ memo-
rial wall in Park City and made sure to invite
me to attend the Veterans Day celebration my
first year in Congress. He was also an active
member of the Masonic Order, the Inter-
national Union of Operating Engineers, the
Mammoth Cave National Park Association, the
Barren River Area Development District, and
Park City United Methodist Church.
I join with Mr. Hogan’s family and the Bar-
ren County community in remembering the life
of an American patriot.
f
SENIOR PASTOR BOB COUNTS
RETIRES
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, Senior Pastor
Counts follows in the footsteps of both his fa-
ther and grandfather, who served as pastors
for their respective congregations. Additionally,
three of his brothers, two of his sons, and his
nephew are all pastors while his sister is mar-
ried to a pastor. He became a minister in 1964
and is a graduate of Bible Baptist College in
Springfield, Missouri.
Senior Pastor Counts has served commu-
nities across the country as a pastor at
Stillwelll Bible Baptist in Clarksville, Arkansas,
Temple Baptist in Springdale, Arkansas, and
Valley Baptist in Rowland Heights, California.
For the past 23 years, he has served my con-
stituents as senior pastor of Bible Baptist
Church in Victorville. His 55 years of dedi-
cated service will end in distinction, as he be-
comes only the fourth retired pastor among
the church’s 1,200 members.
Though Senior Pastor Bob Counts is retir-
ing, his work will continue to be felt through
his life-long service and dedication to his faith.
He will be passing the reigns of senior pastor
to his son, Joel Counts. Over the course of his
career he has touched innumerable lives, and
his passion, caring, and selflessness will truly
be missed as he begins a well-deserved re-
tirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:30 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05NO8.001 E05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1398 November 5, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE OF WORLD
WAR II VETERAN WILLIE J.
ADAMS
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the life of World War
II veteran Willie J. Adams and his tireless
dedication to community and country.
Willie served in the United States Marine
Corps during World War II. An original
Montford Point Marine, Willie was one of
20,000 African American men who helped de-
feat Hitler and desegregate the Marines. He
was honorably discharged in 1946 but he lived
by the motto, ‘‘Once a Marine, always a Ma-
rine,’’ and was a committed lifetime member of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Post
8852.
Willie was a model of honor and duty to his
community when he returned home. As a
Rapides Parish school bus driver, he
mentored countless students and was a father
figure to many. Willie was a dedicated Chris-
tian who served both in Church and at large
in the community. He often participated in sen-
ior citizen events throughout the area, and in
his free time, could be found outdoors fishing
or hunting. The anchor of his family, he was
married for over 60 years to his wife Jose-
phine Adams, with whom he raised two
daughters.
While spending his last days at the Vet-
erans Affairs Medical Center, Willie made sure
that every member of the VFW was able to
visit and play games. In recognition of his ac-
complishments and character, Willie was post-
humously awarded the Congressional Gold
Medal on November 9, 2019.
For his exemplary life of service, Madam
Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Willie J.
Adams. His decades of commitment and con-
tributions to his community and country are
worthy of admiration, and his memory will live
on through the countless lives he impacted.
May he rest in peace.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CITY OF RICH-
MOND FOR REDUCING BARRIERS
TO VOTING IN VIRGINIA’S 2019
ELECTIONS
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I would
like to take this opportunity to recognize the
City of Richmond for its efforts to remove bar-
riers to voter participation in Virginia’s 2019
elections. Mayor Levar Stoney and his admin-
istration are partnering with the Greater Rich-
mond Transit Corporation (GRTC) for the sec-
ond year in a row to provide free rides to the
polls for Richmond residents on Election Day.
Additionally, the City of Richmond is giving its
employees the day off on Tuesday, November
5, 2019. Both measures will address potential
impediments to voting and will help encourage
participation in both state and local elections.
Access to transportation has historically
been an obstacle for underserved and
marginalized communities to exercise their
rights on Election Day. To address these con-
cerns, GRTC will provide free transportation to
nearly every polling location in the City of
Richmond. In doing so, more individuals will
be able to access polling stations, enabling
many more Richmonders to vote.
The ability to take time off from work has
also been a barrier to the ballot box. To help
tackle this issue, the City of Richmond will
close its offices on Tuesday, November 5,
2019 to make it easier for city employees to
vote.
Since my time in the Virginia General As-
sembly, I have fought for voters’ rights; the
right to vote is sacred and should be pro-
tected. That is why I introduced the Election
Day Holiday Act, which would make Election
Day a federal holiday. At a time when our
elections are under attack from outside and
within our country, it is more important than
ever that we remove barriers to the ballot box.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Mayor Stoney, the Stoney
administration, and GRTC for improving ac-
cess and removing barriers to voting for Rich-
mond residents.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF RIPPLE
GLASS
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and celebrate the tenth an-
niversary of Ripple Glass. For a decade, Rip-
ple Glass has led the way in efficient glass re-
cycling and served as champions in the imple-
mentation of their streamlined framework in
cities throughout the Midwest. I am proud to
have such an innovative and environmentally
conscious company in Missouri’s Fifth Con-
gressional District.
Upon discovering that Kansas Citians threw
away nearly 150 million pounds of perfectly
good glass, including 10 million empty bottles
from Kansas City’s very own Boulevard Brew-
ing Company, the individuals at Boulevard
Brewing realized that something must be done
to prevent glass from making its way to the
landfill. Area businesses use nearly 200 mil-
lion pounds of recycled glass every year, but
local recycling was not occurring due to a lack
of nearby facilities to process intake. Tired of
contributing to a mounting problem, the indi-
viduals at Boulevard Brewing Company, with
the support of local companies and community
organizations, sought a solution and founded
Ripple Glass in 2009.
Ripple established a collection system and
state-of-the-art processing plant that operated
efficiently. The company began by placing its
trademark purple collection bins in sixty loca-
tions across the Kansas City metropolitan
area, where glass would be collected before
being transported to the processing plant to be
cleaned, dried, sized, sorted, and screened.
This processing plant provides furnace-ready
cullet-crushed, recycled glass to local compa-
nies in the region that utilize the converted, re-
cycled glass for fiberglass insulation. This
process saves enormous amounts of energy
and dramatically lowers emissions. Ripple
Glass also exports recycled amber glass to be
turned back into glass bottles, including those
used by Boulevard Brewing.
The prominent purple Ripple Glass bins can
be found across Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska,
and South Dakota. The glass collected from
these bins all comes back to the Kansas City
facility for processing, helping over eighty
other communities keep glass out of landfills—
truly exemplifying the ‘ripple effect’.
Moreover, Ripple Glass has recently
launched a collection service for bars, res-
taurants, and other commercial institutions, al-
lowing them to further pursue their mission to
provide a comprehensive glass recycling sys-
tem in Kansas City and beyond. By tapping
into the local marketplace, Ripple Glass has
found a way to close the loop, protect the en-
vironment, support area businesses, and even
make homes more energy efficient. Prior to
Ripple Glass operations in Kansas City, ap-
proximately 80,000 tons of container glass
were consumed each year with only five per-
cent being recycled. Now, through Ripple
Glass’ initiatives, nearly twenty percent of the
community’s glass is recycled and almost
200,000 tons of glass is diverted out of land-
fills across the region.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating Ripple Glass for a decade of serv-
ice to the greater Kansas City area and be-
yond. Let us join in recognizing the company’s
unremitting commitment towards sustainability
and ensuring glass recycling is available to
communities across the Midwest.
f
IN HONOR OF JOE PIERUCCI UPON
HIS RETIREMENT AS CHIEF OF
POLICE FOR THE CITY OF FOS-
TER CITY
HON. JACKIE SPEIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor Joe Pierucci upon his retirement as
Chief of Police for Foster City. Chief Pierucci
will be leaving after 33 years in law enforce-
ment, including the last 11 years in Foster
City.
Chief Pierucci grew up in Foster City and
began his career in nearby San Mateo in
1986. In San Mateo, he worked as a detec-
tive, field training officer, and school resource
officer before moving up to Patrol Sergeant.
He then assumed responsibility for several of
San Mateo’s important community policing ac-
tivities including the highly successful San
Mateo Police Athletics League, neighborhood
watch and crime prevention programs.
In 2009, Joe Pierucci returned to his home-
town of Foster City when he became a lieu-
tenant and began supervising patrol teams.
He’s a warm, amiable person and his person-
ality fit well with a community in which resi-
dents embrace their law enforcement officers
and enjoy an outdoor quality of life that is or-
ganized around community events, community
sports leagues, the water and parks. Into this
mix came Joe Pierucci with gusto and a smile
as wide as a city lagoon.
He quickly rose to the rank of Captain and
eventually managed field operations and ad-
ministrative functions. He served as President
of the San Mateo County Law Enforcement
Commanders Association and continued his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:30 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05NO8.004 E05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1399
November 5, 2019
training in law enforcement management. In
2016, thanks in part he noted to great men-
toring in both San Mateo and Foster City, he
was elevated to become Chief of Police.
Chief Pierucci is a member of the Foster
City Lions Club and volunteered with the city’s
Little League and Youth Softball Association.
His son Mike continued his father’s career of
service as a Blackhawk Helicopter Crew-Chief.
His daughter, Tori, is finishing her criminal jus-
tice degree and hopes to be the 3rd genera-
tion of Pierucci’s serving in local law enforce-
ment. The Chief is a newlywed and his wife,
Angela, will now have much more time with
Joe. It’s unlikely that such an energetic guy
will find a home on a couch, and we wish this
couple many years of great travels and new
adventures.
As the Chief notes, he began his life in Fos-
ter City as a resident when the area previously
known as Brewer Island was largely sand and
sea shells. Today, the city is home to such
powerhouse companies as Gilead Sciences,
Visa International and others that, although
less well known, are building tomorrow’s econ-
omy every day that they open their doors.
Tens of thousands of residents, public serv-
ants and thoughtful visitors have made Foster
City the amazing community that it is.
We wish Joe Pierucci well in the years
ahead and know that his wise counsel will be
missed but never forgotten by those he served
and called friends throughout his many years
on the streets of Foster City. Today is his
birthday, and rarely before has it held so much
meaning. He is not aging out, but he is mov-
ing on. We know him as the Chief of Police,
the chief maker of smiles when he walks into
a room, and the chief cheerleader for his com-
munity and its remarkable spirit by the bay. I
thank Joe. We advised him not to emulate the
children of Foster City by taking up
skateboarding in the years ahead. However, if
we spot him windsurfing we will all point and
say, ‘‘There goes Joe Pierucci and he’s in the
right place because the wind is at his back.
Godspeed, Joe.’’
f
RECOGNIZING DR. LAWRENCE S.
FELDMAN
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Dr. Lawrence Feldman. A Miami-
Dade County School Board Member, Dr. Feld-
man has been awarded the Green Garner
Award, the highest urban education honor in
the United States, by the Council of the Great
City Schools.
Dr. Feldman has served Miami-Dade Coun-
ty Public Schools for 46 years, as a teacher,
assistant principal, principal, and region direc-
tor. He has served on the School Board of
Miami-Dade County Public Schools for over
ten years, and he recently finished his tenure
as the Board’s Chair. His experience working
with culturally and economically diverse com-
munities throughout Miami-Dade County is
unrivaled.
Throughout his career with Miami-Dade
County Public Schools, Dr. Feldman has con-
sistently prioritized the wellbeing of students.
He has been involved in numerous school
safety initiatives, including the implementation
of Sandy Hook Promise’s ‘‘See Something,
Say Something’’ and ‘‘Start with Hello’’ gun vi-
olence prevention programs. He has promoted
awareness of brain and head injuries amongst
student athletes, and led the creation of
stronger programs to identity and help victims
of human trafficking and slavery at schools.
Dr. Feldman is the recipient of numerous
awards for his educational work and public
service, including the Minority Chamber of
Commerce Public Official of the Year Award.
He has been selected as Keynote Speaker for
multiple education organizations and con-
ferences, and has led trainings and presen-
tations across the country.
I’m proud to know Larry as a great friend
and extraordinary educational leader. He has
been an exemplary public servant throughout
his career, and I’m thrilled that he has been
recognized for the Green Garner Award.
f
IN HONOR OF MICHAEL BARTON
WILSON
HON. BRETT GUTHRIE
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life and service of Michael Barton
Wilson of Glasgow, Kentucky.
Mr. Wilson served in the U.S. Navy during
the Vietnam War and was part of the initial
crew on the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz. During
his tour of duty in the Navy, Mr. Wilson was
also stationed at Midway Island, and he later
spearheaded a reunion of Midway Island resi-
dents from across the country in his retire-
ment. He also served as the Commander of
DAV Chapter 20 in Barren County, Kentucky,
and he often helped his fellow veterans get
the care they deserved.
I join with Mr. Wilson’s family and the Bar-
ren County community in remembering his
selfless dedication to serving his country, his
fellow veterans, and anyone else in need.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THOMAS WIL-
SON, DEARBORN’S 2019 VETERAN
OF THE YEAR
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Thomas Wilson on being
named Dearborn’s 2019 Veteran of the Year.
His contributions to his community and the na-
tion are worthy of commendation.
Mr. Wilson enlisted in the U.S. Army in De-
cember 1970. After completing basic training
in Fort Knox, Kentucky and Advanced Indi-
vidual Training at the Signal Corps School in
Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, Mr. Wilson was
sent to Fort Huachuca in Arizona for his first
active duty assignment in strategic army com-
munications. In 1972, Mr. Wilson was selected
for a Military Assistance Advisory Group as-
signment in Brunssum, Holland, where he was
assigned to Armed Forces Central NATO dur-
ing the Cold War. After leaving the army in
1974, Mr. Wilson returned home and received
his technical school education from RETS
Electronic Schools in 1976. Upon graduation,
Mr. Wilson began his career as a product en-
gineer and started a family with his wife, Judy.
The Dearborn Allied War Veterans Council
Veteran of the Year award is given to an ex-
emplary veteran who dutifully serves the Dear-
born community with honor, leadership, com-
passion, and commitment—all of which de-
scribe Mr. Wilson. For the past forty years, Mr.
Wilson has become a pillar of the Dearborn
community, striving to improve the lives of all
its members. Since joining American Legion
Post #364 in Dearborn, Mr. Wilson has de-
voted countless hours to serving the commu-
nity’s veterans and advocating for their
causes. His leadership has been recognized
amongst his peers, as Mr. Wilson has pre-
viously served as senior vice commander and
commander at American Veterans Post 4 and
commander for Dearborn Allied War Veterans
Council. Mr. Wilson’s commitment to American
Legion has been paramount to the veterans of
our community, and his dedicated work has
made meaningful contributions to Dearborn as
a whole.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Thomas Wilson, Dearborn’s
2019 Veteran of the Year. His decades of
commitment to Dearborn—especially its vet-
erans—has made a real difference in our com-
munity. We thank him for his service in the
U.S. Army and wish him the best of luck in his
future endeavors.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 150TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF BETHEL AFRI-
CAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL
CHURCH
HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the 150th anniversary of Bethel
African Methodist Episcopal Church in Asbury
Park, New Jersey. Since its founding, Bethel
African Methodist Episcopal Church has pro-
vided outstanding spiritual guidance and out-
reach to the community.
Organized in 1869, Bethel African Methodist
Episcopal Church was one of the first church-
es established in Asbury Park, initially gath-
ering in a tent for services and later at a site
deeded to the church by James A. Bradley,
founder of Asbury Park. In 1949, the church
found its permanent home on Cookman Ave-
nue.
Throughout its long history, Bethel African
Methodist Episcopal Church has been graced
with pastoral leadership committed to culti-
vating a welcoming place for the community to
learn, pray and connect with others. Its pas-
tors have also endeavored to ensure a viable
future for the church, maintaining and updating
the church building with renovations, including
adaptations for people with special needs,
classrooms and air conditioning. Currently led
by Rev. Dr. Danielle L. Hunter, the church’s
first female pastor, Bethel African Methodist
Episcopal Church has expanded its spiritual
outreach, offering prayer meetings, an inter-
cessory prayer line and added worship serv-
ices.
Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church
also dedicates itself to social action and com-
munity service. Through its food pantry and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:30 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05NO8.007 E05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1400 November 5, 2019
clothing closet, lunch program, tutoring and
many other services of its ministries, the
church carries on the mission of faith, uplifting
all those who seek solace and assistance.
Madam Speaker, once again, please join
me in celebrating the 150th anniversary of
Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church.
Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church
continues to serve as a place of worship and
inspiration and its dedicated service to its
congregants and the greater Asbury Park
community is truly deserving of this body’s
recognition.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF REVEREND
JOE COLAIZZI
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Reverend Joseph
Colaizzi’s thirty-five years of dedicated service
to the Kansas City Rescue Mission (KCRM).
As the U.S. Representative for Missouri’s Fifth
Congressional District, it brings me great joy
to honor a lifelong community advocate and
the indelible mark he has left on the commu-
nity.
Rev. Joe Colaizzi was raised in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. He later moved to Ohio where
he earned his Bachelor of Fine Arts at the
University of Cincinnati before joining the pro-
duction team for the timeless series that cap-
tivated the hearts of so many—Mr. Roger’s
Neighborhood. Rev. Colaizzi went on to be-
come the Director of Instructional Television at
Carnegie Mellon University. While at Carnegie
Mellon, Rev. Colaizzi had a life-changing en-
counter with his faith. Eventually, Rev. Colaizzi
found shelter at Lamb’s Manhattan Church of
the Nazarene, where he subsequently served
the homeless for seven years as a ministry
team member and eventually Associate Pas-
tor. It was also at Lamb’s Manhattan Church
of the Nazarene where Rev. Colaizzi met and
married his loving wife Marilyn.
In 1983, the Colaizzi family moved to Kan-
sas City and planted roots, allowing Joseph to
pursue his Master of Divinity degree from Naz-
arene Theological Seminary while volunteering
at the Kansas City Rescue Mission. The
seeds Reverend Colaizzi planted for his life
began to flourish as he assumed his role as
the Executive Director of Kansas City Rescue
Mission. For Rev. Colaizzi, success has al-
ways been measured by the joy brought to
him by selflessly serving others and working
tirelessly to build a more equitable, inclusive,
and unified community for all.
KCRM was established in 1950 with a mis-
sion to serve people in need, opening their
doors to the poor, homeless, hungry, and hurt-
ing. Focused on serving marginalized commu-
nities with dignity, KCRM offers individuals a
multitude of services, including case manage-
ment, recovery programs, job and life skills
through educational services, and the oppor-
tunity to participate in their social enterprise
program. Regardless of an individual’s current
situation, KCRM empowers clients to over-
come their obstacles in their life and gives
them hope for a brighter future and the tools
to achieve it.
Under Rev. Colaizzi’s stewardship, Kansas
City Rescue Mission has grown from one em-
ployee to sixty, increasing the organization’s
capacity to broaden their reach and presence
in the community. The Kansas City Rescue
Mission Men’s Center, which once provided
only emergency shelter, meals, and chapel
services for thirty homeless men a day, now
serves up to 140 men daily and provides addi-
tional services, including residential addiction
recover, health care, and counseling, just to
name a few.
Rev. Colaizzi’s passion to serve others is
further evidenced by his initiation of the
Reaching Up, Moving Forward campaign in
2011 that funded the establishment of the
Kansas City Rescue Mission Women’s Center.
This twenty-bed facility opened July 15, 2013
and provides residential recovery, counseling,
therapy, and case management services for
single, homeless women, many with co-occur-
ring disorders.
To this day, Reverend Joseph Colaizzi re-
mains an active, integral member of the com-
munity and consistently directs his efforts to-
wards the betterment of people’s lives in and
around Kansas City. Rev. Colaizzi’s leadership
and advocacy is unparalleled and inspiring.
Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring
thirty-five years of dedicated service to the
community by Reverend Joseph Colaizzi
through his ministry and direction at the Kan-
sas City Rescue Mission. Let us honor the
profound legacy of Rev. Colaizzi and the im-
pact he has made through his benevolent spir-
it and passion to serve.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:30 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05NO8.011 E05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1204
Tuesday, November 5, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6365–S6410
Measures Introduced: Seventeen bills and three res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 2770–2786,
S. Res. 406–407, and S. Con. Res. 29.
Pages S6391–92
Measures Reported:
S. 995, to amend title XXIX of the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize the program under such
title relating to lifespan respite care, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute.
S. 1130, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to improve the health of children and help better
understand and enhance awareness about unexpected
sudden death in early life, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute.
S. 1399, to amend title VIII of the Public Health
Services Act to revise and extend nursing workforce
development programs, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute.
S. 1608, to provide for the publication by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services of physical ac-
tivity recommendations for Americans, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
S. 1657, to provide assistance to combat the esca-
lating burden of Lyme disease and other tick and
vector-borne diseases and disorders, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute.
S. 2511, to amend title 40, United States Code,
to provide the Marshal of the Supreme Court of the
United States and Supreme Court Police with the
authority to protect the Chief Justice of the United
States, any Associate Justice of the Supreme Court,
and other individuals in any location, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
S. 2619, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize the Healthy Start program, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
S. 2629, to amend the Public Health Service Act
with respect to the Public Health Service Corps,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute.
S. 2740, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act to clarify the regulatory framework
with respect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved new drug applica-
tion. Page S6391
Measures Passed:
Preventing Animal Cruelty and Torture Act:
Committee on the Judiciary was discharged from
further consideration of H.R. 724, to revise section
48 of title 18, United States Code, and the bill was
then passed. Page S6410
Congratulating the Washington Nationals: Sen-
ate agreed to S. Res. 407, congratulating the Wash-
ington Nationals on winning the 2019 Major League
Baseball World Series. Page S6410
Hunsaker Nomination: Senate resumed consider-
ation of the nomination of Danielle J. Hunsaker, of
Oregon, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit. Pages S6384–85
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 75 yeas to 18 nays (Vote No. EX. 345), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6384
Nominations—Agreement: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that notwith-
standing Rule XXII, the votes on the motions to in-
voke cloture on the nominations of Lee Philip
Rudofsky, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, and Jennifer Philpott
Wilson, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Pennsylvania, occur at 12 noon,
on Wednesday, November 6, 2019; that the vote on
confirmation of the nomination of Danielle J.
Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, occur at 4 p.m., on
Wednesday, November 6, 2019, and that following
disposition of the nomination of Danielle J.
Hunsaker, Senate vote on the motion to invoke clo-
ture on the nomination of William Joseph Nardini,
of Connecticut, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Second Circuit; and that if cloture is invoked on
the nominations of Lee Philip Rudofsky, Jennifer
Philpott Wilson, and William Joseph Nardini, the
votes on confirmation of the nominations occur at a
time to be determined by the Majority Leader, in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05NO9.REC D05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1205
November 5, 2019
consultation with the Democratic Leader, on Thurs-
day, November 7, 2019. Page S6385
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 10 a.m., on Wednes-
day, November 6, 2019, Senate resume consideration
of the nomination of Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Arkansas. Page S6410
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 85 yeas to 8 nays (Vote No. EX. 344), David
Austin Tapp, of Kentucky, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of
fifteen years. Pages S6366–74, S6374–84
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 83 yeas to 9 nays (Vote No. EX. 343), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S6374–75
Nomination Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nomination:
Stephen Hahn, of Texas, to be Commissioner of
Food and Drugs, Department of Health and Human
Services. Page S6410
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S6391, S6410
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6392–94
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6394–96
Additional Statements: Pages S6389–91
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S6396–97
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6397
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—345) Pages S6374–75, S6384
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:02 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
November 6, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S6410.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
NASA’S WORKFORCE OF THE FUTURE
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Aviation and Space concluded a hear-
ing to examine building NASA’s workforce of the
future, focusing on STEM engagement for a 21st
century education, after receiving testimony from
Linda T. Elkins-Tanton, Arizona State University
Interplanetary Initiative, Tempe; Jeffrey Manber,
Nanoracks LLC, Webster, Texas; J.R. Gladden, Uni-
versity of Mississippi, Oxford; and Shella Rivano
Condino, Oakton High School, Vienna, Virginia.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the nominations of
James P. Danly, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and Kath-
arine MacGregor, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Sec-
retary of the Interior, after the nominees testified
and answered questions in their own behalf.
THREATS TO THE HOMELAND
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine
threats to the homeland, after receiving testimony
from David J. Glawe, Under Secretary of Homeland
Security, Office of Intelligence and Analysis; Chris-
topher Wray, Director, Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, Department of Justice; and Russell Travers,
Acting Director, National Counterterrorism Center,
Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
DATA EXPOSURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Crime
and Terrorism concluded a hearing to examine how
corporations and Big Tech leave our data exposed to
criminals, China, and other bad actors, after receiv-
ing testimony from Tom Burt, Microsoft Corpora-
tion, Redmond, Washington; and William A. Car-
ter, Center for Strategic and International Studies,
Kara Frederick, Center for a New American Security,
and Klon Kitchen, The Heritage Foundation, all of
Washington, D.C.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters from officials of the intelligence
community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05NO9.REC D05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1206 November 5, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 12 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4978–4989; and 1 resolution, H. Res.
679 were introduced. Page H8729
Additional Cosponsors: Page H8730
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 4355, to direct the Director of the National
Science Foundation to support research on the out-
puts that may be generated by generative adversarial
networks, otherwise known as deepfakes, and other
comparable techniques that may be developed in the
future, and for other purposes, with an amendment
(H. Rept. 116–268);
H.R. 4372, to direct Federal science agencies and
the Office of Science and Technology Policy to un-
dertake activities to improve the quality of under-
graduate STEM education and enhance the research
capacity at the Nation’s HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs,
and for other purposes, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–269); and
H.R. 4373, to provide for a coordinated Federal
research initiative to ensure continued United States
leadership in engineering biology, with an amend-
ment (H. Rept. 116–270). Pages H8728–29
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Demings to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H8727
Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the Guest
Chaplain, Monsignor Stephen J. Rossetti, Catholic
University of America, Washington, DC. Page H8727
Member Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Hill, wherein she resigned as Representa-
tive for the Twenty-Fifth Congressional District of
California, effective on November 3, 2019.
Page H8727
Whole Number of the House: The Speaker an-
nounced to the House that, in light of the resigna-
tion of the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Hill,
the whole number of the House is 431. Page H8727
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H8728.
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no Yea and Nay
votes, and there were no Recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 8 a.m. and ad-
journed at 8:04 a.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1105)
S. 1196, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1715 Linnerud Drive
in Sun Prairie, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory
Barr Post Office Building’’.Signed on October 31,
2019. (Public Law 116–66)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 6, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on the Budget: business meeting to markup S.
2765, to improve Federal fiscal controls and the congres-
sional budget process, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee
on Energy, to hold hearings to examine S. 876, to amend
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to require the Secretary
of Energy to establish a program to prepare veterans for
careers in the energy industry, including the solar, wind,
cybersecurity, and other low-carbon emissions sectors or
zero-emissions sectors of the energy industry, S. 1890, to
provide for grants for energy efficiency improvements and
renewable energy improvements at public school facilities,
S. 2425, to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation
Act to establish the CHP Technical Assistance Partner-
ship Program, S. 2508, to require the Secretary of Energy
to establish a council to conduct a survey and analysis of
the employment figures and demographics in the energy,
energy efficiency, and motor vehicle sectors of the United
States, S. 2556, to amend the Federal Power Act to pro-
vide energy cybersecurity investment incentives, to estab-
lish a grant and technical assistance program for cyberse-
curity investments, S. 2657, to support innovation in ad-
vanced geothermal research and development, S. 2660, to
establish a grant program for wind energy research, devel-
opment, and demonstration, S. 2668, to establish a pro-
gram for research, development, and demonstration of
solar energy technologies, S. 2688, to amend the Energy
Policy Act of 2005 to establish an Office of Technology
Transitions, S. 2702, to require the Secretary of Energy
to establish an integrated energy systems research, devel-
opment, and demonstration, and S. 2714, to amend the
America COMPETES Act to reauthorize the ARPA–E
program, 10 a.m., SD–366.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05NO9.REC D05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1207
November 5, 2019
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine S. 2662, to amend sections 111, 169,
and 171 of the Clean Air Act to clarify when a physical
change in, or change in the method of operation of, a sta-
tionary source constitutes a modification or construction,
10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
business meeting to consider S. 2779, to establish the
Federal Clearinghouse on School Safety Best Practices, S.
2162, to require the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to annually hire at least 600 new Bor-
der Patrol agents, to report quarterly to Congress on the
status of the Border Patrol workforce, and to conduct a
comprehensive staffing analysis, S. 2769, to eliminate or
modify certain Federal agency reporting requirements, S.
1363, to authorize an AI Center of Excellence within the
General Services Administration, S. 2618, to strengthen
employee cost savings suggestions programs within the
Federal Government, S. 2560, to amend the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006,
to require the budget justifications and appropriation re-
quests of agencies be made publicly available, S. 2353, to
direct the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency to develop guidance for firefighters and
other emergency response personnel on best practices to
protect them from exposure to PFAS and to limit and
prevent the release of PFAS into the environment, S.
2749, to provide requirements for the .gov domain, S.
2513, to provide for joint reports by relevant Federal
agencies to Congress regarding incidents of terrorism, S.
565, to require the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget to submit to Congress an annual report on
projects that are over budget and behind schedule, S.
2750, to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
authorize the Operation Stonegarden grant program, S.
2712, to designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 430 South Knowles Avenue in New
Richmond, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Captain Robert C. Har-
mon and Private John R. Peirson Post Office Building’’,
H.R. 1589, to amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to establish chemical, biological, radiological, and
nuclear intelligence and information sharing functions of
the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department
of Homeland Security and to require dissemination of in-
formation analyzed by the Department to entities with
responsibilities relating to homeland security, H.R. 2066,
to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish
the Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program in the
Department of Homeland Security, H.R. 495, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require an annual
report on the Office for State and Local Law Enforcement,
H.R. 135, to amend the Notification and Federal Em-
ployee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 to
strengthen Federal antidiscrimination laws enforced by
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and ex-
pand accountability within the Federal Government, H.R.
887, to designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 877 East 1200 South in Orem, Utah,
as the ‘‘Jerry C. Washburn Post Office Building’’, H.R.
1252, to designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 6531 Van Nuys Boulevard in Van
Nuys, California, as the ‘‘Marilyn Monroe Post Office’’,
H.R. 1253, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 13507 Van Nuys Boulevard in
Pacoima, California, as the ‘‘Ritchie Valens Post Office
Building’’, H.R. 1526, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 200 Israel Road
Southeast in Tumwater, Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G.
Hewitt Post Office’’, H.R. 1844, to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located at 66 Grove
Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the ‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez
Memorial Post Office Building’’, H.R. 1972, to designate
the facility of the United States Postal Service located at
1100 West Kent Avenue in Missoula, Montana, as the
‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office Building’’, H.R. 2151, to
designate the facility of the United States Postal Service
located at 7722 South Main Street in Pine Plains, New
York, as the ‘‘Senior Chief Petty Officer Shannon M.
Kent Post Office’’, H.R. 2325, to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located at 100 Calle
Alondra in San Juan, Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry
Regiment Post Office Building’’, H.R. 3144, to designate
the facility of the United States Postal Service located at
8520 Michigan Avenue in Whittier, California, as the
‘‘Jose Ramos Post Office Building’’, H.R. 3314, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 1750 McCulloch Boulevard North in Lake
Havasu City, Arizona, as the ‘‘Lake Havasu City Combat
Veterans Memorial Post Office Building’’, and the nomi-
nations of Joshua A. Deahl, to be an Associate Judge of
the District of Columbia Court of Appeals, Deborah J.
Israel, and Andrea L. Hertzfeld, both to be an Associate
Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia,
and Robert Anthony Dixon, to be United States Marshal
for the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, De-
partment of Justice, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: business meeting to con-
sider H.R. 317, to reaffirm the action of the Secretary of
the Interior to take land into trust for the benefit of the
Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Mission Indians; to be im-
mediately followed by an oversight hearing to examine
the 477 program, focusing on reducing red tape while
promoting employment and training opportunities in In-
dian country, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
reauthorizing the USA FREEDOM Act of 2015, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Grant C. Jaquith, of New York,
and Scott J. Laurer, of Virginia, both to be a Judge of
the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims,
9:30 a.m., SR–418.
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine
veteran scams, focusing on protecting those who pro-
tected us, 9:30 a.m., SD–562.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to re-
ceive a briefing on Putin’s shadow warriors, focusing on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05NO9.REC D05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1208 November 5, 2019
mercenaries, security contracting, and the way ahead, 10
a.m., 2359, Rayburn Building.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of November 6 through November 8,
2019
Senate Chamber
On Wednesday, Senate will resume consideration of
the nomination of Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Ar-
kansas. Senate will vote on the motions to invoke
cloture on the nominations of Lee Philip Rudofsky,
and Jennifer Philpott Wilson, to be United States
District Judge for the Middle District of Pennsyl-
vania, at 12 noon. Senate will vote on confirmation
of the nomination of Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Or-
egon, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, and on the motion to invoke cloture
on the nomination of William Joseph Nardini, of
Connecticut, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Second Circuit, at 4 p.m.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Novem-
ber 7, to hold hearings to examine implementation of the
2018 Farm Bill, focusing on rural development and en-
ergy programs, 9:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: No-
vember 7, to hold hearings to examine bipartisan bills to
promote affordable housing access and safety, 10 a.m.,
SD–538.
Committee on the Budget: November 6, business meeting
to markup S. 2765, to improve Federal fiscal controls and
the congressional budget process, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: November 6,
Subcommittee on Energy, to hold hearings to examine S.
876, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to require
the Secretary of Energy to establish a program to prepare
veterans for careers in the energy industry, including the
solar, wind, cybersecurity, and other low-carbon emissions
sectors or zero-emissions sectors of the energy industry, S.
1890, to provide for grants for energy efficiency improve-
ments and renewable energy improvements at public
school facilities, S. 2425, to amend the Energy Policy and
Conservation Act to establish the CHP Technical Assist-
ance Partnership Program, S. 2508, to require the Sec-
retary of Energy to establish a council to conduct a survey
and analysis of the employment figures and demographics
in the energy, energy efficiency, and motor vehicle sectors
of the United States, S. 2556, to amend the Federal
Power Act to provide energy cybersecurity investment in-
centives, to establish a grant and technical assistance pro-
gram for cybersecurity investments, S. 2657, to support
innovation in advanced geothermal research and develop-
ment, S. 2660, to establish a grant program for wind en-
ergy research, development, and demonstration, S. 2668,
to establish a program for research, development, and
demonstration of solar energy technologies, S. 2688, to
amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to establish an Of-
fice of Technology Transitions, S. 2702, to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish an integrated energy sys-
tems research, development, and demonstration, and S.
2714, to amend the America COMPETES Act to reau-
thorize the ARPA–E program, 10 a.m., SD–366.
November 7, Full Committee, to hold an oversight
hearing to examine federal revenues derived from energy
development on Federal and Indian lands as well as Fed-
eral offshore areas and programs that share those revenues
with state, local, and tribal governments, including S.
2418, to amend the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act
of 2006 to modify a definition and the disposition and
authorized uses of qualified outer Continental Shelf reve-
nues under that Act and to exempt State and county pay-
ments under that Act from sequestration, to provide for
the distribution of certain outer Continental Shelf reve-
nues to the State of Alaska, and S. 2666, to promote the
development of renewable energy on public land, 10 a.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: November 6,
to hold hearings to examine S. 2662, to amend sections
111, 169, and 171 of the Clean Air Act to clarify when
a physical change in, or change in the method of oper-
ation of, a stationary source constitutes a modification or
construction, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: November 7, to receive
a closed briefing on Afghanistan, focusing on the way
ahead, 11 a.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
November 6, business meeting to consider S. 2779, to es-
tablish the Federal Clearinghouse on School Safety Best
Practices, S. 2162, to require the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection to annually hire at least
600 new Border Patrol agents, to report quarterly to
Congress on the status of the Border Patrol workforce,
and to conduct a comprehensive staffing analysis, S.
2769, to eliminate or modify certain Federal agency re-
porting requirements, S. 1363, to authorize an AI Center
of Excellence within the General Services Administration,
S. 2618, to strengthen employee cost savings suggestions
programs within the Federal Government, S. 2560, to
amend the Federal Funding Accountability and Trans-
parency Act of 2006, to require the budget justifications
and appropriation requests of agencies be made publicly
available, S. 2353, to direct the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency to develop guidance
for firefighters and other emergency response personnel on
best practices to protect them from exposure to PFAS and
to limit and prevent the release of PFAS into the environ-
ment, S. 2749, to provide requirements for the .gov do-
main, S. 2513, to provide for joint reports by relevant
Federal agencies to Congress regarding incidents of ter-
rorism, S. 565, to require the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget to submit to Congress an an-
nual report on projects that are over budget and behind
schedule, S. 2750, to amend the Homeland Security Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05NO9.REC D05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1209
November 5, 2019
of 2002 to authorize the Operation Stonegarden grant
program, S. 2712, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 430 South Knowles Ave-
nue in New Richmond, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Captain Rob-
ert C. Harmon and Private John R. Peirson Post Office
Building’’, H.R. 1589, to amend the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 to establish chemical, biological, radio-
logical, and nuclear intelligence and information sharing
functions of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the
Department of Homeland Security and to require dis-
semination of information analyzed by the Department to
entities with responsibilities relating to homeland secu-
rity, H.R. 2066, to amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to establish the Intelligence Rotational Assignment
Program in the Department of Homeland Security, H.R.
495, to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to re-
quire an annual report on the Office for State and Local
Law Enforcement, H.R. 135, to amend the Notification
and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation
Act of 2002 to strengthen Federal antidiscrimination laws
enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission and expand accountability within the Federal
Government, H.R. 887, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 877 East 1200
South in Orem, Utah, as the ‘‘Jerry C. Washburn Post
Office Building’’, H.R. 1252, to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at 6531 Van
Nuys Boulevard in Van Nuys, California, as the ‘‘Marilyn
Monroe Post Office’’, H.R. 1253, to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located at 13507 Van
Nuys Boulevard in Pacoima, California, as the ‘‘Ritchie
Valens Post Office Building’’, H.R. 1526, to designate
the facility of the United States Postal Service located at
200 Israel Road Southeast in Tumwater, Washington, as
the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Office’’, H.R. 1844, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the ‘‘Cor-
poral Alex Martinez Memorial Post Office Building’’,
H.R. 1972, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 1100 West Kent Avenue in Mis-
soula, Montana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office
Building’’, H.R. 2151, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 7722 South Main
Street in Pine Plains, New York, as the ‘‘Senior Chief
Petty Officer Shannon M. Kent Post Office’’, H.R. 2325,
to designate the facility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 100 Calle Alondra in San Juan, Puerto
Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post Office Build-
ing’’, H.R. 3144, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 8520 Michigan Avenue in
Whittier, California, as the ‘‘Jose Ramos Post Office
Building’’, H.R. 3314, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 1750 McCulloch
Boulevard North in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, as the
‘‘Lake Havasu City Combat Veterans Memorial Post Of-
fice Building’’, and the nominations of Joshua A. Deahl,
to be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia
Court of Appeals, Deborah J. Israel, and Andrea L.
Hertzfeld, both to be an Associate Judge of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia, and Robert Anthony
Dixon, to be United States Marshal for the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia, Department of Justice,
9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: November 6, business
meeting to consider H.R. 317, to reaffirm the action of
the Secretary of the Interior to take land into trust for
the benefit of the Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Mission
Indians; to be immediately followed by an oversight hear-
ing to examine the 477 program, focusing on reducing
red tape while promoting employment and training op-
portunities in Indian country, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: November 6, to hold hear-
ings to examine reauthorizing the USA FREEDOM Act
of 2015, 10 a.m., SD–226.
November 7, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider the nominations of Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of
Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Fifth Circuit, Steven J. Menashi, of New York, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Bar-
bara Lagoa and Robert J. Luck, both of Florida, both to
be a United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit,
Sylvia Carreno-Coll, to be United States District Judge
for the District of Puerto Rico, John M. Gallagher, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, and Sherri A. Lydon, to be United States
District Judge for the District of South Carolina, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Committee on Rules and Administration: November 7, to
hold an oversight hearing to examine Library of Congress
modernization, 10 a.m., SR–301.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: November 6, to hold
hearings to examine the nominations of Grant C. Jaquith,
of New York, and Scott J. Laurer, of Virginia, both to
be a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for Vet-
erans Claims, 9:30 a.m., SR–418.
Select Committee on Intelligence: November 7, to receive a
closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: November 6, to hold hear-
ings to examine veteran scams, focusing on protecting
those who protected us, 9:30 a.m., SD–562.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Novem-
ber 6, to receive a briefing on Putin’s shadow warriors,
focusing on mercenaries, security contracting, and the
way ahead, 10 a.m., 2359, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05NO9.REC D05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1210 November 5, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, November 6
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will resume consider-
ation of the nomination of Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Arkansas. Senate will vote on the motions to invoke clo-
ture on the nominations of Lee Philip Rudofsky, and Jen-
nifer Philpott Wilson, to be United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, at 12 noon. Sen-
ate will vote on confirmation of the nomination of
Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, and on the motion to
invoke cloture on the nomination of William Joseph
Nardini, of Connecticut, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit, at 4 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
1 p.m., Friday, November 8
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 1 p.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E1397, E1398, E1400
Cook, Paul, Calif., E1397
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E1399
Guthrie, Brett, Ky., E1397, E1399
McEachin, A. Donald, Va., E1398
Pallone, Frank, Jr., N.J., E1399
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E1399
Speier, Jackie, Calif., E1398
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E1398
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 06, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D05NO9.REC D05NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
