Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H4703
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019 No. 102
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. BEYER).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
June 18, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable DONALD S.
BEYER, Jr. to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Ms. Mariel
Ridgway, one of his secretaries.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
AMERICANS SUPPORT THE GI BILL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, 12
days ago, the eyes of the world were fo-
cused on the beaches of Normandy,
France, to observe the 75th anniversary
of the D-day invasion. It was a solemn
moment to rightly honor the sacrifice
and courage of the combined Armed
Forces of the Allied Powers, who, from
that moment, launched the final, deci-
sive assault that eventually destroyed
the Axis Powers’ murderous strangle-
hold on Europe and Asia.
Mr. Speaker, another 75th anniver-
sary surrounding the epic effort to save
democracy will occur in 4 days, this
Saturday, June 22. On that day 75 years
ago, President Franklin Roosevelt
signed into law the Servicemen’s Read-
justment Act, more commonly known
as the GI Bill. That landmark measure
would provide both college tuition and
a stipend for returning servicemembers
who, as FDR said at the time, ‘‘have
been compelled to make greater eco-
nomic sacrifice and every other kind of
sacrifice than the rest of us.’’
Even though the war would rage on
for another year, leaders in Wash-
ington wisely recognized that millions
of young soldiers, sailors, and airmen
would soon be returning back into ci-
vilian life; and for their sake and for
the sake of a healthy postwar econ-
omy, creating this educational path-
way made tremendous sense.
In the 75 years since the GI Bill was
signed into law, it is now recognized as
one of the most successful pieces of do-
mestic legislation ever enacted. The
postwar economic boom and the blos-
soming of the American middle class
have both been attributed, in part, to
the GI Bill.
Many renown Americans, including
Bob Dole, Johnny Carson, Harry
Belafonte, William Rehnquist, and
Clint Eastwood, were beneficiaries of
the GI Bill.
Economic studies have shown that,
for every dollar the government spent
on the GI Bill, our economy saw nearly
$7 in return of additional economic
output in tax revenues from income
growth.
Despite its stellar performance, the
relative strength of the GI Bill deterio-
rated in the late 20th century. By 2008,
it was clear that tuition assistance and
living stipends had not kept pace with
the rising cost of a college education.
As a freshman Congressman in the
House Armed Services Committee at
the time, I heard from returning Iraq
and Afghan vets who were forced to
choose between dropping out of school
or shouldering the burden of daunting
student loans. To fix this decline, we
passed the Post-9/11 GI Bill, which was
signed into law by George Bush on
June 30, 2008.
The updated law boosted tuition to
match the cost of a 4-year public uni-
versity in servicemembers’ home
States and increased the living stipend
to keep faith with the original law. It
also allowed GI benefits to be trans-
ferred to a spouse or dependent child, a
groundbreaking change which trans-
formed the value of military service for
families.
After the bill signing, I flew to Iraq
in late 2008 for a committee visit and
vividly recall being surrounded by sol-
diers bursting with questions about
when and how the new law would be
implemented. Since then, it has be-
come clear that the transferability of
the GI Bill has been an enormous mo-
rale booster and a valuable incentive to
enlist and remain in service.
Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, the
Trump Department of Defense an-
nounced a new policy last July which
would arbitrarily cut off servicemem-
bers with more than 16 years of service
from transferring their Post-9/11 GI
benefits to eligible family members.
We were told at the time that the De-
partment viewed this as a shrewd cost-
cutting measure.
However, revoking transferability
breaks our commitment to our most
dedicated and seasoned servicemem-
bers and their families. In addition, in
a tight, lean labor market, it remains
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.000 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4704 June 18, 2019
critically important to attract and re-
tain the best qualified individuals for
military service.
I believe it sends exactly the wrong
message to some of our most seasoned
servicemembers who may have married
late in life or started their families
later, to make them ineligible for in-
centives, to continue their service to
our Nation.
Two weeks after the Pentagon re-
leased this policy, 83 of my colleagues
in the House joined me in a letter that
I wrote to Secretary Mattis objecting
to this change and calling for its rever-
sal. So far, DOD has refused to budge.
Mr. Speaker, I have some good news
to report today. With the cutoff due to
go into effect next month, the House
Armed Services Committee last week
unanimously passed my amendment to
the 2020 National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act, which would block the Sec-
retary of Defense from restricting GI
Bill transferability based on a max-
imum number of years of service.
As Congress took action 75 years ago
to create the GI Bill benefit, today it is
our job to restore the hard-fought mod-
ernized GI Bill of 2008. That is even
more the case today at a time of an
All-Volunteer Force. If a servicemem-
ber demonstrates that they are ready,
able, and willing to continue their
service to our Nation, we should uphold
our end of the commitment.
To paraphrase President Roosevelt’s
words 75 years ago when he signed the
Servicemen’s Readjustment Act, pro-
tecting transferability today ‘‘gives
emphatic notice to the men and women
in our Armed Forces that the Amer-
ican people do not intend to let them
down.’’
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CLAY) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Gracious God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
During these coming weeks of House
business, we ask Your special blessing
upon the Members of this assembly
who return from a long Father’s Day
weekend. Issues of national security,
trade, and the welfare of our citizens
stand in the balance of the delibera-
tions of these days.
May each Member be filled with a
surfeit of wisdom, patience, and equa-
nimity that these weeks of appropria-
tions might issue forth in solutions
that benefit the Nation.
May all that is done be for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it ad-
journ to meet at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
f
RECOGNIZING GUN VIOLENCE
AWARENESS MONTH
(Mr. THOMPSON of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Gun
Violence Awareness Month.
All month members of the Gun Vio-
lence Prevention Task Force will be
coming to the floor to remember those
we have lost and to call upon the Sen-
ate to take up H.R. 8, the Bipartisan
Background Checks Act.
More than 100 days ago, Democrats
and Republicans came together to pass
legislation which is supported by more
than 90 percent of the American people.
Since the beginning of the year, more
than 6,500 people have been killed and
more than 12,500 have been injured by
someone using a gun. Yet, the Senate
refuses to allow a simple up or down
vote.
On Thursday, activists from around
the country will be holding a day of ac-
tion to call on the Senate leadership to
take up universal background checks.
No more thoughts. No more prayers.
They want action, and they want a
vote.
The Senate should do the right thing.
The Senate should pass H.R. 8.
f
NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY
ADMINISTRATION CREATES JOBS
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, yesterday, the National Nu-
clear Security Administration an-
nounced a $5 million investment in
workforce development at the Savan-
nah River Site in South Carolina to
create jobs.
We are grateful that the Undersecre-
tary for Nuclear Security at the De-
partment of Energy and Administrator
of NNSA Lisa Gordon-Hagerty an-
nounced the investment through the
Workforce Opportunities in Regional
Careers with the Savannah River Site
Community Reuse Organization for
Aiken Technical College, Augusta
Technical College, University of South
Carolina Aiken, Augusta University,
and the University of South Carolina
Salkehatchie.
I thank Rick McLeod, David Jame-
son, Dr. Sandra Jordan, Dr. Forest
Mahan, and Congressman RICK ALLEN.
We appreciate their commitment to
partnership and look forward to con-
tinuing to work together.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
HONORING U.S. ARMY RANGERS
(Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
United States Ranger history predates
the Revolutionary War. However, June
19 marks the 77th anniversary of Major
William Darby formally organizing and
activating the 1st Ranger Battalion.
I rise today to honor the exceptional
Americans who have volunteered as
Army Rangers, fully knowing the haz-
ards of their chosen profession. One of
the greatest and most humbling honors
of my life has been serving our Nation
in uniform, and particularly, serving in
the Army Ranger regiment.
The Army Ranger legacy is as old as
the Republic, going back to Francis
Marion, to Daniel Boone, to great
Americans like Command Sergeant
Major Douglas Greenway, and on to
current Active Duty members.
It wasn’t until after the Civil War—
more than half a century without mili-
tary Ranger units—that the U.S. Army
Rangers were officially born. Seventy-
five years ago, fighting on the bitter
and bloody beaches of Normandy,
Rangers gained their motto: ‘‘Rangers
lead the way.’’
Since Pointe du Hoc, Rangers have
led the way, from the Japanese POW
camps, to theaters of war, including:
Korea, Vietnam, Panama, Operation
Desert Storm, Somalia, Operation En-
during Freedom, Operation Iraqi Free-
dom, and the great war on terror.
Today, I honor the elite soldiers serv-
ing our country as U.S. Army Rangers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.002 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4705
June 18, 2019
JAKE MANGUM AWARDED C SPIRE
FERRISS TROPHY
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, today I
recognize an outstanding athlete from
the State of Mississippi. Jake Mangum
is Mississippi State University’s center
fielder who has recently led the Bull-
dog baseball team to its fourth straight
Super Regionals and second straight
College World Series.
Jake ranks fourth on the all-time
NCAA hits list with 380 hits. During
the regular season, Mangum earned a
375 batting average, scored 65 runs, and
totaled 95 base hits, the most in the
Southeastern Conference. Achieve-
ments of this magnitude come only
with discipline and determination,
characteristics that all Americans
should strive to promote in their ev-
eryday lives.
I would like to congratulate Jake on
this impressive accomplishment and
thank him for 4 great years at Mis-
sissippi State.
I wish him and the Bulldogs the best
of luck in Omaha.
Hail State.
f
MALICIOUS BEHAVIOR FROM IRAN
(Mr. BANKS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to address the most recent pat-
tern of malicious behavior coming
from Iran.
Recently, Speaker PELOSI said that
President Trump: ‘‘. . . inflames the
U.S.-Iran issue.’’ Respectfully, I
couldn’t disagree more. The Iranians
are the ones inflaming the relationship
by attacking commercial vessels, des-
ignating U.S. troops in the Middle East
as terrorists, challenging the freedom
of navigation in the Persian Gulf, and
intending to surpass uranium stockpile
limits in just days.
Mr. Speaker, we cannot turn a blind
eye to the hostile actions of Iran. The
President is right to end the failed
Obama-era strategy of appeasement to-
ward Iran, and to call for our allies to
stand up to this regime’s threatening
behavior.
I stand with the President and urge
my colleagues to do the same, to pro-
tect Americans’ security and economic
interest in the region.
f
TEMPLE TERRACE DECLARES
ITSELF A TRAFFICKING-FREE
ZONE
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to commend the city of Temple
Terrace and Mayor Mel Jurado for offi-
cially declaring the city a trafficking-
free zone. As part of the effort, the city
of Temple Terrace has pledged to take
important steps to crack down on buy-
ers in the sex trade, which will reduce
the demand for sex workers and de-
crease the number of victims traf-
ficked, specifically.
Temple Terrace is implementing a
zero-tolerance policy where city em-
ployees will be automatically termi-
nated if they are caught soliciting
prostitutes. The Temple Terrace Police
Department has also been encouraged
to increase enforcement against buyers
of sex work by conducting more stings.
And, finally, city staffers are re-
quired to take mandatory training on
how to spot signs of trafficking and
how to help potential victims.
This is a monumental step forward
for our community, and I am honored
to join the city of Temple Terrace and
Mayor Mel Jurado in the fight against
human trafficking.
f
STOP OFFENDING BORDER
PATROL
(Mr. ROY asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
troubled that one of my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle compared the
activities of the United States Govern-
ment and Border Patrol on the south-
ern border of the United States to con-
centration camps.
For the life me, I cannot understand
why we have allowed discourse to get
to this place where the efforts by Bor-
der Patrol to secure our border, to
house children, to house women, to
house families, to deal with the fact
that the cartels are attacking our bor-
der and profiting while doing it, and
trying to care for these people while we
are trying to enforce our laws, com-
paring that to the horrors of World
War II, and saying that my friend Hec-
tor Garza is somehow the Gestapo
today, and comparing what is hap-
pening at the border to concentration
camps.
I am really troubled and offended,
and I think that the people of south
Texas and Border Patrol are offended
after what they are doing to try to de-
fend the United States of America
against cartels attacking the United
States and profiting by moving people
across the border.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I urge the
Speaker to immediately reschedule
this important bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, June 18, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
June 18, 2019, at 9:05 a.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 3151.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
b 1415
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
THE WESTERN BALKANS—MES-
SAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC.
NO. 116–41)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
Western Balkans that was declared in
Executive Order 13219 of June 26, 2001,
is to continue in effect beyond June 26,
2019.
The threat constituted by the actions
of persons engaged in, or assisting,
sponsoring, or supporting (i) extremist
violence in the former Republic of Mac-
edonia (what is now the Republic of
North Macedonia) and elsewhere in the
Western Balkans region, or (ii) acts ob-
structing implementation of the Day-
ton Accords in Bosnia or United Na-
tions Security Council Resolution 1244
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.006 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4706 June 18, 2019
of June 10, 1999, in Kosovo, has not
been resolved. In addition, Executive
Order 13219 was amended by Executive
Order 13304 of May 28, 2003, to take ad-
ditional steps with respect to acts ob-
structing implementation of the Ohrid
Framework Agreement of 2001 relating
to the former Republic of Macedonia
(what is now the Republic of North
Macedonia).
The acts of extremist violence and
obstructionist activity outlined in
these Executive Orders are hostile to
United States interests and continue to
pose an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security and for-
eign policy of the United States. For
this reason, I have determined that it
is necessary to continue the national
emergency with respect to the Western
Balkans.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, June 18, 2019.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 2:45 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 16 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1445
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CLAY) at 2 o’clock and 45
minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on the motion to suspend the
rules on which a recorded vote or the
yeas and nays are ordered, or if the
vote is objected to under clause 6 of
rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on the postponed question at a later
time.
f
EMPOWERING BENEFICIARIES, EN-
SURING ACCESS, AND
STRENGTHENING ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT OF 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3253) to provide for certain exten-
sions with respect to the Medicaid pro-
gram under title XIX of the Social Se-
curity Act, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3253
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Empowering Beneficiaries, Ensuring
Access, and Strengthening Accountability
Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; Table of contents.
Sec. 2. Extension of Money Follows the Per-
son Rebalancing Demonstra-
tion.
Sec. 3. Clarifying authority of State Med-
icaid fraud and abuse control
units to investigate and pros-
ecute cases of Medicaid patient
abuse and neglect in any set-
ting.
Sec. 4. Extension of protection for Medicaid
recipients of home and commu-
nity-based services against
spousal impoverishment.
Sec. 5. Extension of the Community Mental
Health Services Demonstration
Program.
Sec. 6. Preventing inappropriately low re-
bates under Medicaid drug re-
bate program.
Sec. 7. Medicaid Improvement Fund.
Sec. 8. Determination of budgetary effects.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF MONEY FOLLOWS THE
PERSON REBALANCING DEM-
ONSTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) FUNDING.—Section 6071(h) of the Deficit
Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is
amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (F)—
(I) by striking ‘‘subject to paragraph (3),
132,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$132,000,000’’; and
(II) by striking the period at the end and
inserting a semicolon; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraphs:
‘‘(G) $417,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(H) $450,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2023; and
‘‘(I) $225,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Subject to paragraph (3),
amounts’’ and inserting ‘‘Amounts’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘2021’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’;
and
(C) by striking paragraph (3).
(2) RESEARCH AND EVALUATION.—Section
6071(g) of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005
(42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘2016’’ and
inserting ‘‘2024’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘and for
each of fiscal years 2019 through 2024,’’ after
‘‘2016,’’.
(b) CHANGES TO INSTITUTIONAL RESIDENCY
PERIOD REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6071(b)(2) of the
Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a
note) is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ‘‘90’’
and inserting ‘‘60’’; and
(B) by striking the flush sentence after
subparagraph (B).
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on
the date that is 30 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(c) UPDATES TO STATE APPLICATION RE-
QUIREMENTS.—Section 6071(c) of the Deficit
Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘, which
shall include’’ and all that follows through
‘‘2007’’;
(2) in paragraph (7)—
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘REBALANCING’’ and inserting ‘‘EXPENDI-
TURES’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by adding ‘‘and’’
at the end; and
(C) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking the period at
the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) include a work plan that describes for
each Federal fiscal year that occurs during
the proposed MFP demonstration project—
‘‘(I) the use of grant funds for each pro-
posed initiative that is designed to accom-
plish the objective described in subsection
(a)(1), including a funding source for each ac-
tivity that is part of each such proposed ini-
tiative;
‘‘(II) an evaluation plan that identifies ex-
pected results for each such proposed initia-
tive; and
‘‘(III) a sustainability plan for components
of such proposed initiatives that are in-
tended to improve transitions, which shall be
updated with actual expenditure information
for each Federal fiscal year that occurs dur-
ing the MFP demonstration project; and
‘‘(iv) contain assurances that grant funds
used to accomplish the objective described in
subsection (a)(1) shall be obligated not later
than 24 months after the date on which the
funds are awarded and shall be expended not
later than 60 months after the date on which
the funds are awarded (unless the Secretary
approves a waiver of either such require-
ment).’’; and
(3) in paragraph (13)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting ‘‘, and in such manner as
will meet the reporting requirements set
forth for the Transformed Medicaid Statis-
tical Management Information System (T–
MSIS);’’;
(B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
subparagraph (D); and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) the State shall report on a quarterly
basis on the use of grant funds by distinct
activity, as described in the approved work
plan, and by specific population as targeted
by the State;
‘‘(C) if the State fails to report the infor-
mation required under subparagraph (B),
fails to report such information on a quar-
terly basis, or fails to make progress under
the approved work plan, the State shall im-
plement a corrective action plan and any
lack of progress under the approved work
plan may result in withholding of grant
funds made available to the State; and’’.
(d) FUNDING FOR QUALITY ASSURANCE AND
IMPROVEMENT; TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE; OVER-
SIGHT.—Section 6071(f) of the Deficit Reduc-
tion Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is
amended by striking paragraph (2) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(2) FUNDING.—From the amounts appro-
priated under subsection (h)(1) for each of
fiscal years 2019 through 2024, $1,000,000 shall
be available to the Secretary for each such
fiscal year to carry out this subsection.’’.
(e) BEST PRACTICES EVALUATION.—Section
6071 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42
U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(i) BEST PRACTICES.—
‘‘(1) REPORT.—The Secretary, directly or
through grant or contract, shall submit a re-
port to the President and Congress not later
than September 30, 2020, that contains find-
ings and conclusions on best practices from
the State MFP demonstration projects car-
ried out with grants made under this section.
The report shall include information and
analyses with respect to the following:
‘‘(A) The most effective State strategies
for transitioning beneficiaries from institu-
tional to qualified community settings car-
ried out under the State MFP demonstration
projects and how such strategies may vary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.004 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4707
June 18, 2019
for different types of beneficiaries, such as
beneficiaries who are aged, physically dis-
abled, intellectually or developmentally dis-
abled, or individuals with serious mental ill-
nesses, and other targeted waiver beneficiary
populations.
‘‘(B) The most common and the most effec-
tive State uses of grant funds carried out
under the State MFP demonstration projects
for transitioning beneficiaries from institu-
tional to qualified community settings and
improving health outcomes, including dif-
ferentiating funding for current initiatives
that are designed for such purpose and fund-
ing for proposed initiatives that are designed
for such purpose.
‘‘(C) The most effective State approaches
carried out under State MFP demonstration
projects for improving person-centered care
and planning.
‘‘(D) Identification of program, financing,
and other flexibilities available under the
State MFP demonstration projects, that are
not available under the traditional Medicaid
program, and which directly contributed to
successful transitions and improved health
outcomes under the State MFP demonstra-
tion projects.
‘‘(E) State strategies and financing mecha-
nisms for effective coordination of housing
financed or supported under State MFP dem-
onstration projects with local housing au-
thorities and other resources.
‘‘(F) Effective State approaches for deliv-
ering Money Follows the Person transition
services through managed care entities.
‘‘(G) Other best practices and effective
transition strategies demonstrated by States
with approved MFP demonstration projects,
as determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(H) Identification and analyses of oppor-
tunities and challenges to integrating effec-
tive Money Follows the Person practices and
State strategies into the traditional Med-
icaid program.
‘‘(2) COLLABORATION.—In preparing the re-
port required under this subsection, the Sec-
retary shall collect and incorporate informa-
tion from States with approved MFP dem-
onstration projects and beneficiaries partici-
pating in such projects, and providers par-
ticipating in such projects.
‘‘(3) FUNDING.—From the amounts appro-
priated under subsection (h)(1) for each of
fiscal years 2020 and 2021, not more than
$300,000 shall be available to the Secretary
for each such fiscal year to carry out this
subsection.’’.
(f) MACPAC REPORT ON QUALIFIED SET-
TINGS CRITERIA.—Section 6071 of the Deficit
Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note),
as amended by subsection (e), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(j) MACPAC REPORT.—Prior to the final
implementation date established by the Sec-
retary for the criteria established for home
and community-based settings in section
441.301(c)(4) of title 42, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, as part of final implementation of
the Home and Community Based Services
(HCBS) Final Rule published on January 16,
2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 2947) (referred to in this
subsection as the ‘HCBS final rule’), the
Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access
Commission (MACPAC) shall submit to Con-
gress a report that—
‘‘(1) identifies the types of home and com-
munity-based settings and associated serv-
ices that are available to eligible individuals
in both the MFP demonstration program and
sites in compliance with the HCBS final rule;
and
‘‘(2) if determined appropriate by the Com-
mission, recommends policies to align the
criteria for a qualified residence under sub-
section (b)(6) (as in effect on October 1, 2017)
with the criteria in the HCBS final rule.’’.
(g) APPLICATION TO CURRENT PROJECTS.—
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, any State with an ap-
proved MFP demonstration project under
section 6071 of the Deficit Reduction Act of
2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) on the date of the
enactment of this Act shall submit a revised
application to the Secretary that contains
the same information and assurances as are
required for any new State applicant under
the amendments made by this section.
SEC. 3. CLARIFYING AUTHORITY OF STATE MED-
ICAID FRAUD AND ABUSE CONTROL
UNITS TO INVESTIGATE AND PROS-
ECUTE CASES OF MEDICAID PA-
TIENT ABUSE AND NEGLECT IN ANY
SETTING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1903(q)(4)(A)(ii) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1396b(q)(4)(A)(ii)) is amended by inserting
after ‘‘patients residing in board and care fa-
cilities’’ the following: ‘‘and of patients (who
are receiving medical assistance under the
State plan under this title) in a noninstitu-
tional or other setting’’.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDING.—Section
1903(a)(6) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396b(a)(6)) is amended, in the matter
following subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘(as
found necessary by the Secretary for the
elimination of fraud in the provision and ad-
ministration of medical assistance provided
under the State plan)’’.
SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF PROTECTION FOR MED-
ICAID RECIPIENTS OF HOME AND
COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICES
AGAINST SPOUSAL IMPOVERISH-
MENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2404 of Public
Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5 note) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘March 31, 2024’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
section 2404 of Public Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C.
1396r–5 note), section 1924 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5), or section
1902(a)(17) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(17))
shall be construed as prohibiting a State
from applying an income or resource dis-
regard authorized under section 1902(r)(2) of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(r)(2))—
(1) to the income or resources of individ-
uals described in section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii)(VI)
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(A)(ii)(VI))
(including a disregard of the income or re-
sources of such individual’s spouse); or
(2) on the basis of an individual’s need for
home and community-based services author-
ized under subsection (c), (d), (i), or (k) of
section 1915 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n) or
under section 1115 of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1315).
SEC. 5. EXTENSION OF THE COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH SERVICES DEMONSTRA-
TION PROGRAM.
Section 223(d) of the Protecting Access to
Medicare Act of 2014 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘June 30,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’; and
(2) in paragraph (7)(B), by striking ‘‘De-
cember 31, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘June 30,
2021’’.
SEC. 6. PREVENTING INAPPROPRIATELY LOW RE-
BATES UNDER MEDICAID DRUG RE-
BATE PROGRAM.
(a) PROHIBITING MANUFACTURERS FROM
BLENDING AVERAGE MANUFACTURER PRICE OF
BRAND DRUG AND ANY AUTHORIZED GENERIC
OF SUCH DRUG.—Section 1927(k)(1)(C) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–
8(k)(1)(C)) is amended—
(1) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘INCLUSION’’ and inserting ‘‘EXCLUSION’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘a new drug application’’
and inserting ‘‘the manufacturer’s new drug
application’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘inclusive’’ and inserting
‘‘exclusive’’.
(b) ELIMINATING MANUFACTURERS FROM
DEFINITION OF WHOLESALER.—Section
1927(k)(11) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(k)(11)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘manufacturers,’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘manufacturer’s and’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to covered outpatient drugs dispensed on or
after January 1, 2020.
SEC. 7. MEDICAID IMPROVEMENT FUND.
Section 1941(b)(1) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396w–1(b)(1)) is amended by
striking ‘‘$6,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$45,500,000’’.
SEC. 8. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. GUTHRIE)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 3253.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3253, the Empowering Bene-
ficiaries, Ensuring Access, and
Strengthening Accountability Act of
2019.
This Saturday, June 22, marks the
20th anniversary of the landmark Su-
preme Court decision in Olmstead,
which held that people with disabilities
must receive services in the most com-
munity-integrated setting possible. It
is fitting that, today, the House of Rep-
resentatives will pass legislation that
helps advance the promise of Olmstead
by ensuring that there are programs in
place to help people transition to and
live in the community with their fami-
lies and friends, while keeping them
safe from abuse and neglect.
It also ensures people will continue
to be able to receive mental health and
substance use disorder treatment when
they need it the most, and, finally, it
makes commonsense improvements to
ensure that drug companies pay their
fair share in rebates to the Medicaid
program.
I am proud to say that this bill pro-
vides much-needed funding to support
the highly successful Money Follows
the Person program, while making im-
portant program improvements that
will help the program better serve the
people it is intended to help.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.003 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4708 June 18, 2019
Money Follows the Person helps en-
sure that seniors and people with dis-
abilities are able to live in their homes
and in their communities. It provides
States with vital funding and supports
to ensure that they continue to help
people move out of institutions.
Earlier this year, I held a roundtable
discussion in my district with patients,
providers, and advocates to talk about
the challenges we face in providing
long-term care in this country. Every
participant supported reauthorizing
Money Follows the Person because it
makes it easier for people to get care
in the setting of their choice. By pass-
ing this bill today, we are giving hope
to those who need it.
I want to thank my friend and col-
league, Representative GUTHRIE, for his
commitment to this program and his
leadership on this issue. It has been an
honor to work with him on it.
Next, this legislation ensures that
partners of people receiving home and
community-based services will have
the resources they need to meet their
living expenses. Without this impor-
tant protection, married beneficiaries
would face the awful choice between
impoverishing the spouse or entering
an institution. I am proud that we will
be able to further extend this protec-
tion.
I also want to thank my friend on the
other side of the aisle, my fellow
Michigander, FRED UPTON, for his con-
tinued leadership and support on this
issue.
H.R. 3253 also ensures that people re-
ceiving home and community-based
services receive the same protections
from abuse and neglect as people in
nursing facilities. By allowing Med-
icaid Fraud Control Units to inves-
tigate home and community-based
services providers as well as nursing fa-
cilities, this bill extends an important
protection to some of our most vulner-
able populations.
This bipartisan bill would not have
been possible without the leadership of
Representatives WELCH and WALBERG,
and I want to thank them for their
hard work to protect Medicaid bene-
ficiaries from abuse.
This bill also extends the promising
Excellence in Mental Health dem-
onstration for an additional 2 years. As
we continue to struggle through the
opioid epidemic, this program ensures
that people with substance use disorder
and mental health issues can receive
critical treatment when they need it
the most. The early results of the dem-
onstration have been promising, and
this extension will allow States to
build on that success.
I want to thank Representatives
MATSUI and MULLIN for their ongoing
support of this program.
Finally, this legislation adopts a
commonsense proposal to ensure drug
companies pay their fair share in Med-
icaid rebates. It will help provide addi-
tional funds to State Medicaid pro-
grams that are struggling to pay for in-
creasingly expensive prescription
drugs.
I want to thank Representatives
KENNEDY and JASON SMITH for their
leadership on this issue.
I urge my colleagues to support the
passage of H.R. 3253, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3253, the Empowering Bene-
ficiaries, Ensuring Access, and
Strengthening Accountability Act of
2019.
This legislation will extend the
Money Follows the Person program
through 2024. This important program
provides resources to State Medicaid
programs to help individuals with
chronic conditions and disabilities
transition from institutions back into
local communities if they choose to do
so.
Money Follows the Person offers a
choice for individuals who often have
very limited options. This program al-
lows the person to choose where they
would like to receive their care.
This legislation will also extend the
Spousal Impoverishment program
through 2024.
H.R. 3253 will also extend the Excel-
lence in Mental Health demonstration
for 2 years. The Excellence Act is de-
signed to increase Americans’ access to
community health in substance use
treatment services.
In addition, this bill will clarify the
authority of State Medicaid fraud and
abuse control units. This clarification
will give these important units the au-
thority to investigate and prosecute
abuse and neglect of Medicaid bene-
ficiaries in noninstitutional settings,
as well as broaden the permissible use
of Federal Medicaid fraud and abuse
control units to screen complaints or
reports alleging potential abuse or ne-
glect of Medicaid beneficiaries.
I have enjoyed working with my col-
league from Michigan, my friend, Mrs.
DINGELL, and the hard work that she
has put into this program, both this
Congress and the previous Congress, to
move this forward.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. MATSUI).
Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of the Empowering Bene-
ficiaries, Ensuring Access, and
Strengthening Accountability Act of
2019 and its provisions extending crit-
ical access to mental health and addic-
tion treatment.
Let’s be clear: One in five Americans
live with a mental illness. Nearly all of
us have a friend, a family member, or
neighbor who has been diagnosed. Men-
tal illness touches all our lives in some
way.
When we passed the Excellence in
Mental Health Act in 2014, we made an
investment in behavioral health that
expanded access to necessary treat-
ment. Eight States established commu-
nity-based clinics providing 24-hour
crisis care, better coordinating phys-
ical, mental, and substance abuse
treatment. This provided much-needed
support to patients and their families.
In combating opioid addiction, Cer-
tified Community Behavioral Health
Centers are already making a dif-
ference. In the first year of implemen-
tation, these clinics served nearly
400,000 patients with serious mental
health and addiction disorders, pro-
viding 80,000 individuals with lifesaving
treatment for the first time.
Headline after headline tells us we
need to preserve and, importantly, ex-
pand access to programs like this.
While the bill before us will extend
funding to programs in eight existing
States for the next 21⁄2 years, our work
here is far from done.
People are struggling with the stig-
ma of mental illness and substance use
disorder across the country. Every
American should have access to the
same top-notch care as patients in the
pilot programs. That is why I will con-
tinue to be a fierce advocate for expan-
sion of the Certified Community Be-
havioral Health Centers program. I
look forward to continue working with
my colleagues so that we can create
new opportunities to expand access to
mental healthcare and conquer the ad-
diction crisis that has harmed far too
many families.
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. WALBERG).
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 3253, which
takes several important steps to
strengthen the Medicaid program; and
I thank my friends and colleagues,
Representatives DINGELL and GUTHRIE,
for this legislation.
I am especially pleased that the bill
includes a piece of bipartisan legisla-
tion I authored, along with my col-
league from Vermont, Congressman
WELCH.
Our legislation broadens the author-
ity of Medicaid Fraud Control Units to
better protect the most vulnerable and
bring bad actors to justice.
Medicaid Fraud Control Units are
charged with investigating and pros-
ecuting State Medicaid provider fraud
and resident abuse complaints in Med-
icaid-funded healthcare facilities. Na-
tionally, these units contributed to
2,500 convictions and $1.8 billion in re-
covered funds in 2017 alone. They are a
vital instrument of justice for pro-
tecting Medicaid beneficiaries from
abuse.
However, current law prevents these
units from investigating cases of pa-
tient abuse in noninstitutional set-
tings, such as home-based care. It
doesn’t make sense.
Our committee has heard from States
that have had to turn a blind eye to
cases of abuse simply because the
abuse occurred in a noninstitutional
setting. This arbitrary restriction sim-
ply does not make sense.
There has been substantial growth in
home and community-based services
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.011 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4709
June 18, 2019
since the initial statute was enacted
decades ago. It is time that we update
the law so we are not needlessly tying
the hands of those who are charged
with protecting the most vulnerable.
Our legislation will empower attorneys
general to expand the scope of their
States’ fraud units so they can combat
patient abuse wherever it might occur.
This reform has broad bipartisan sup-
port from AGs in red States and blue
States. It is just common sense, and it
will help better serve those in need.
Once again, I thank my colleagues on
the great Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee for their bipartisan collabora-
tion. I encourage passage of H.R. 3253.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to enthusiastically support H.R.
3253 and to particularly congratulate,
for their leadership, Congresswoman
DINGELL and Congressman GUTHRIE and
indicate that the underlying reason for
my enthusiastic support is what I be-
lieve every Member knows, and that is
the frail among us are the most vulner-
able. Those individuals may be our sen-
iors, as I am dealing with a person who
is seeking to get outpatient rehabilita-
tion, and they need extra support in
getting that care.
In this instance, the extension of 41⁄2
years to be able to have the protection
of the legislation that deals with abuse
in Medicaid home and community-
based services is vital because the per-
son receiving the services is least able
to speak about the abuse.
b 1500
I believe the extension will help in
determining the level of abuse and also
remedies for such abuse.
It is clear that if someone is in Med-
icaid home-based programs, they are as
equally in need as those who are in in-
stitutionalized programs.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the Con-
gresswoman. I would say that in im-
poverished communities and commu-
nities of color, the Medicaid-based pro-
gram is the basis of their healthcare,
and they are the most vulnerable.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3253, the
Empowering Beneficiaries, Ensuring
Access, and Strengthening Account-
ability Act of 2019, for its very vital
and important element of extending
this review for 4.5 years.
We have to get it right. We have to
protect these people. We have to give
them the quality of life that they de-
serve. ‘‘Abuse’’ should not be in their
vocabulary.
Mr. Speaker, I support this legisla-
tion.
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. WALDEN), the Republican leader of
the Energy and Commerce Committee
and my good friend.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I, too,
rise today in strong support of this bi-
partisan bill that extends several key
Medicaid programs, H.R. 3253, the Em-
powering Beneficiaries, Ensuring Ac-
cess, and Strengthening Accountability
Act of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, this is a bill that
strengthens the healthcare safety net
for our communities and provides long-
term certainty for patients.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague,
Chairman FRANK PALLONE of the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee, for his
partnership and willingness to work in
good faith on both sides of the aisle to
get this done.
We passed a short-term extension of
these programs back in March, Mr.
Speaker, to ensure that patients were
still protected as we ironed out the de-
tails. Today, we are delivering the
long-term deal that I know we all
wanted all along.
A big priority of mine in this pack-
age is the 2-year extension of the Ex-
cellence in Mental Health demonstra-
tion program at CMS. Eight States, in-
cluding my home State of Oregon, are
currently participating in this pilot
program, which is designed to increase
access to mental health and substance
use treatment services.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from the Oregon AFSCME
Council 75.
OREGON AFSCME COUNCIL 75,
June 18, 2019.
MEMBERS OF THE OREGON DELEGATION,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVES: On behalf of the
more than 25,000 Oregon AFSCME Council 75
members, we ask you to approve the Empow-
ering Beneficiaries, Ensuring Access, and
Strengthening Accountability Act of 2019
(H.R. 3253) when the House of Representa-
tives considers the bill this week.
We strongly support H.R. 3253 because it
extends the Certified Community Behavioral
Health Clinics (CCBHC) program through De-
cember 2021. On June 30, the CCBHCs in our
state, along with those in Minnesota, Mis-
souri, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Okla-
homa, and Pennsylvania, face extreme finan-
cial threat. We appreciate that Representa-
tive Walden, in his capacity as Ranking
Member of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, worked in bipartisan effort to
avert the March 30 fiscal cliff in Oregon and
Oklahoma and is an original co-sponsor for
H.R. 3253.
At Cascadia Behavioral Health in Portland
Oregon, AFSCME Council 75 members who
are therapists, care coordinators, crisis
counselors, residential counselors, support
staff and other workers, deliver whole health
care—integrated mental health and addic-
tion services, primary care and housing—
through the CCBHC program. These health
care workers never stop working to help
those who want to get healthy and recover.
It is not just a job; it is a calling.
That core commitment to helping people
heal is why Alexandra Birch, a Qualified
Mental Health Associate, cares deeply about
the CCBHC program. It has helped innovate
and improve the delivery of care. She was
hired in 2017 as a Care Coordinator at
Cascadia because of an investment Congress
provided to the CCBHC program. In that role
she is the glue that connects primary care
with behavioral health care and makes sure
care is focused on the whole patient.
In her work, Ms. Birch treats clients with
anxiety and very high blood pressure but
who do not have an established doctor; she is
able to connect them to a doctor. She cares
for clients on certain anti-depressants that
experienced weight gain as a result, which
put them at higher risk of developing diabe-
tes. Because of the investment Congress pro-
vided in establishing CCBHCs, Ms. Birch can
direct those clients to inhouse primary care
to monitor and prevent diabetes.
For practitioners like Ms. Birch,
Cascadia’s capacity to bring primary care
into the outpatient behavioral health care
clinics is a game-changer. It enhances their
delivery of services and outcomes for their
clients. From the frontline perspective, the
integration of behavioral health and primary
care in a CCBHC removes logistical and
other obstacles to consultation between pro-
viders. These consultations translate into
improved identification of the best route of
care for a client with complex physical and
mental conditions with the result of getting
a client on the road to wellness much
quicker.
Cascadia’s capacity to sustain and expand
this level of high-quality coordinated care to
a vulnerable population depends on the dedi-
cation and skills of workers like Ms. Birch
and congressional action to continue invest-
ing in the CCBHC fiscal model that covers
100 percent of costs.
With the fiscal investment in CCBHCs,
Congress allows Cascadia staff to reach into
the community to expand access to behav-
ioral health services for individuals with se-
rious mental illnesses. Cascadia works with
Portland’s 24-hour mental health crisis
emergency room, Unity Center Behavioral
Health. Cascadia staff establish crisis pa-
tients with Cascadia primary care providers
immediately after Unity hospital care. This
enables patients to continue medications
that ensure mental stability until they have
fully connected with Cascadia’s mental
health providers.
We urge you to pass H.R. 3253 and extend
the CCBHC program. It would be tragic to
lose this funding that has sustained and ex-
panded vital behavioral and medical services
to our community.
Sincerely,
STACY CHAMBERLIN,
Executive Director.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, this is
really important legislation.
Last year, my legislation, the SUP-
PORT for Patients and Communities
Act, our opioids legislation, the most
comprehensive bill to address a single
drug crisis in our Nation’s history, was
signed into law. Our committee has
made major strides in addressing the
substance use disorder crisis that is
plaguing our communities.
The Excellence in Mental Health
demonstration continues that good
work by increasing Medicaid reim-
bursement for community-based men-
tal health and addiction treatment
services. This 2-year extension for the
participating States will give us time
for a full evaluation to determine the
effectiveness of the program and
whether it should be expanded.
Also included in this bill is an exten-
sion for the Money Follows the Person
program through fiscal year 2024. This
provides resources to State Medicaid
programs to help individuals with
chronic conditions and disabilities
transition back into their commu-
nities.
We also secured an extension of what
is known as the spousal impoverish-
ment provisions in Medicaid. To be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.012 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4710 June 18, 2019
clear, this bill actually helps keep
spouses of elderly patients from impov-
erishment and out of costly nursing
home settings. For spouses of patients
receiving home or community-based
care, the bill will protect them from
impractical reductions in their income
or resources and ensures that they can
live out their lives with independence
and dignity.
Finally, we clarified the authority of
State Medicaid fraud and abuse control
units that investigate and prosecute
abuse and neglect of Medicaid bene-
ficiaries. This is simply good govern-
ment. It is good government oversight,
and it protects patients who are some
of America’s most vulnerable.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, I thank my
good friends on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee for their work on the
bill: Dr. BURGESS, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr.
UPTON, Mr. WALBERG, and their coun-
terparts on the Democratic side, Ms.
ESHOO, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
WELCH, and, of course, Chairman PAL-
LONE.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank
Chairman PALLONE, Republican leader
WALDEN, and the Energy and Com-
merce Committee staff for their hard
work to help this bipartisan package
come together.
Mr. Speaker, I also thank my col-
league, Congresswoman DEBBIE DIN-
GELL, for working with me on extend-
ing Medicaid Follows the Person. I also
thank my colleagues, Representative
MATSUI, Representative ESHOO, Rep-
resentative WELCH, and Representative
WALBERG, for their hard work on this
package.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, in clos-
ing, I want to echo the words of my
colleague, Mr. GUTHRIE, and thank all
of those who helped bring this bill to
the floor today. I give particular
thanks to Chairman PALLONE and
Ranking Member WALDEN for their
leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support H.R. 3253.
As a caregiver, I have met so many
people in the last few years who are
desperate and scared and who need us
to care. This bill does that. I hope the
House today will show this country we
can act bipartisanly, giving hope.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Mrs.
DINGELL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3253, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR,
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 436 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 2740.
Will the gentlewoman from North
Carolina (Ms. ADAMS) kindly take the
chair.
b 1509
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2740) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human
Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
with Ms. ADAMS (Acting Chair) in the
chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Thursday,
June 13, 2019, amendment No. 5 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111 of-
fered by the gentleman from California
(Mr. ROUDA) had been disposed of.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR.
VISCLOSKY OF INDIANA
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, pur-
suant to section 3 of House Resolution
436, as the designee of the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. LOWEY), I offer
amendments en bloc, which are at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 2 consisting
of amendment Nos. 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14,
16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32,
35, 37, 42, 46, 48, 49, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57,
58, and 62 printed in part A of House
Report 116–111, offered by Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY of Indiana:
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. STEWART OF
UTAH
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $200,000)’’.
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(decreased by $200,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. YOUNG OF
ALASKA
Page 223, line 4, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $8,500,000)’’.
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $8,500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. SMITH OF
NEW JERSEY
Page 223, line 22, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 248, line 18, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 249, line 1, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MS. ESHOO OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 247, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $9,500,000)’’.
Page 247, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $9,500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MS. ESHOO OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 223, line 22, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 248, line 18, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 249, line 1, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MS. JACKSON
LEE OF TEXAS
Page 217, line 19, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by
$2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 14 OFFERED BY MR. LANGEVIN
OF RHODE ISLAND
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $10,000,000)’’.
Page 248, line 18, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $10,000,000)’’.
Page 249, line 1, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $10,000,000)’’.
Page 249, line 12, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $10,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 16 OFFERED BY MR. GRAVES OF
MISSOURI
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by
$5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 17 OFFERED BY MS. MOORE OF
WISCONSIN
Page 228, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,500,000)’’.
Page 228, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 18 OFFERED BY MR. WILSON OF
SOUTH CAROLINA
Page 246, line 11, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $4,800,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $4,800,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 20 OFFERED BY MR. WALBERG
OF MICHIGAN
At the end of division C (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be made available to the
Taliban.
AMENDMENT NO. 22 OFFERED BY MR.
SCHWEIKERT OF ARIZONA
Page 246, line 11, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 23 OFFERED BY MR. CARSON OF
INDIANA
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $4,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $4,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 26 OFFERED BY MR. BARR OF
KENTUCKY
Page 222, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $6,000,000)’’.
Page 226, line 4, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 227, line 21, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 27 OFFERED BY MR. CICILLINE
OF RHODE ISLAND
Page 223, line 14, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,500,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,500,000)’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.014 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4711
June 18, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 28 OFFERED BY MRS. DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $7,700,000)’’.
Page 300, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 30 OFFERED BY MR. BERA OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $20,000,000)’’.
Page 233, line 9, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $20,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 31 OFFERED BY MR. MOULTON
OF MASSACHUSETTS
Page 222, line 15, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $4,300,000)’’.
Page 222, line 15, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $4,300,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 32 OFFERED BY MR. MOULTON
OF MASSACHUSETTS
Page 251, line 10, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 251, line 10, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 251, line 12, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 251, line 12, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 35 OFFERED BY MR. EMMER OF
MINNESOTA
Page 223, line 4, insert ‘‘(reduced by
$3,000,000)’’ after the dollar amount.
Page 247, line 17, insert ‘‘(increased by
$3,000,000)’’ after the dollar amount.
AMENDMENT NO. 37 OFFERED BY MR. ALLEN OF
GEORGIA
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by
$10,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 42 OFFERED BY MR. KILDEE OF
MICHIGAN
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $16,000,000)’’.
Page 228, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 229, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 230, line 12, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 46 OFFERED BY MR. PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $8,000,000)’’.
Page 246, line 18, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $8,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 48 OFFERED BY MR. CARBAJAL
OF CALIFORNIA
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 222, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 49 OFFERED BY MR. CARBAJAL
OF CALIFORNIA
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $4,000,000)’’.
Page 246, line 11, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $4,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 52 OFFERED BY MR.
O’HALLERAN OF ARIZONA
Page 246, line 18, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $6,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 53 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
Page 222, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 54 OFFERED BY MR. BRINDISI OF
NEW YORK
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 55 OFFERED BY MR. PAPPAS OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 56 OFFERED BY MR. PAPPAS OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE
Page 246, line 11, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,500,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(decreased by $2,500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 57 OFFERED BY MS. SHERRILL
OF NEW JERSEY
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 58 OFFERED BY MS. SHERRILL
OF NEW JERSEY
Page 246, line 18, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 246, line 18, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 62 OFFERED BY MS. TORRES
SMALL OF NEW MEXICO
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by
$5,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY) and the
gentleman from California (Mr. CAL-
VERT) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Indiana.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, the amendments in-
cluded in the en bloc were made in
order by the rule, and they have been
agreed to by both sides. They improve
the bill. I support the amendment and
urge its adoption.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of the
en bloc amendment, and I thank the
Defense Subcommittee chairman for
working with our side to include many
amendments important to our Mem-
bers. The chairman has been a great
partner and has been very fair through-
out this process.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair,
let me thank the chair of the Defense
Subcommittee and ranking member of
the subcommittee as well.
I am delighted that my amendment
No. 12 has been made in order and that
we will have an opportunity to save
and improve the lives of many women
around the world.
My amendment provides flexibility
for the Secretary of Defense to allocate
resources needed to provide technical
assistance by U.S. military women to
military women in other countries
combating violence as a weapon of war,
terrorism, human trafficking, and nar-
cotics trafficking to ameliorate their
impact on women and girls around the
globe.
Madam Chair, the most vulnerable
people in vulnerable nation-states are
women and girls and women and chil-
dren. That is both in terms of sexual
violence and domestic violence, and
also in terms of the denial of access to
education.
As the co-chair of the Congressional
Afghanistan Caucus, I am reminded of
the aftermath of the Afghan war. As we
began to write the constitution, we
thought we had made progress. But the
Taliban, after a period of time, began
to burn the schools that were des-
ignated for girls only.
This amendment allows women in
the military of these respective coun-
tries that are prone to hostilities, vio-
lence, and disparate treatment of
women and girls to be able to work
with our women in the United States
military and be able to be trained on
the issues of fighting terrorism, human
trafficking, and narcotics trafficking.
According to a UNICEF report, rape,
torture, and human trafficking by ter-
rorist and militant groups have been
employed as a weapon of war affecting
over 20,000 women and girls, and those
numbers are going up.
My amendment will curb terrorism
abroad by making available American
technical and military expertise to
militaries in other countries, like Ni-
geria, who are combating violent
jihadists. Boko Haram, of course, was
at the center of taking the Chibok
girls, and it is important to be able to
utilize these activities.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD ‘‘U.S. Special Operations Com-
mand’s HEROs Combat Human Traf-
ficking’’ and ‘‘The Role of the Military
in Combating Human Trafficking: A
South African Perspective.’’
[From DoD News, Jan. 4, 2018]
U.S. SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND’S HEROS
COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING
(By Shannon Collins)
WASHINGTON.—January is National Slavery
and Human Trafficking Prevention Month,
and the Defense Department has teams who
work year-round to combat these crimes
worldwide.
The Human Exploitation Rescue Operative,
or HERO, Child-Rescue Corps is a program
developed by U.S. Special Operations Com-
mand, Warrior Care Program-Career Transi-
tion, the National Association to Protect
Children and U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said Army Col. Kimberly
Moros, chief of SOCOM’s career transition
initiatives.
‘‘The HERO Child-Rescue Corps Program is
designed for wounded, injured and ill
transitioning service members and veterans
who receive training in high-tech computer
forensics and law enforcement skills to as-
sist federal agents in the fight against online
child sexual exploitation,’’ she said. ‘‘Upon
successful completion of the program, HERO
interns will have the knowledge, skills and
experience to apply for careers with federal,
state and local police agencies and other or-
ganizations in the field of computer
forensics.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.014 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4712 June 18, 2019
Since 2013, more than 130 veterans and
transitioning service members have entered
the HERO program. Of the successful grad-
uates, 74 have been offered careers in federal
law enforcement and another 31 are in in-
ternships, Moros said.
‘‘HEROs and HERO interns now make up
over 25 percent of the Homeland Security
computer forensics workforce,’’ said Robert
Kurtz, unit chief for HERO at Homeland Se-
curity Investigations.
HUMAN TRAFFICKING
‘‘Human trafficking includes using force,
fraud or coercion to compel a person to pro-
vide labor, services or sex. It’s a violation of
basic human rights,’’ said Linda Dixon, DOD
Combating Trafficking in Persons Office
Program Manager. ‘‘Combating trafficking
in persons is a duty that DOD takes seri-
ously as we do in other situations that bring
harm to our nation. It is a global concern,
and our goal is to educate every member of
DOD on how to recognize and report human
trafficking in the U.S. as well as around the
world.’’
The three most common forms of traf-
ficking, according to DOD’s Combating Traf-
ficking in Persons office, are forced labor,
sex trafficking, and child soldiering.
Moros said the idea behind the HERO
Corps is a simple one.
‘‘When it comes to hunting those who prey
on the innocent, who better than our na-
tion’s most highly trained military vet-
erans?’’ she said. ‘‘Much of today’s human
trafficking and child sexual exploitation is
technology facilitated. Offenders utilize the
internet and digital technologies to coordi-
nate their activity, advertise, share informa-
tion and hide evidence. HEROs receive train-
ing in counter-child exploitation as well as
digital forensics and victim identification.
And they are then embedded with federal law
enforcement.’’
She said the HERO Child-Rescue Corps
saves children in several ways. ‘‘As law en-
forcement first responders, they are at every
crime scene, searching for critical clues that
might provide evidence for an arrest or to
find a victim,’’ Moros said.
Back at the forensic lab, the HERO is the
lead digital investigator, searching out clues
that can lead to organized criminal rings,
evidence of sexual assault or production of
child abuse imagery, she said.
‘‘In many cases, it has been the relentless
focus and military mindset that has allowed
HEROs to go beyond the digging that might
be done in traditional law enforcement to
find a victim,’’ she added.
Kurtz said federal law enforcement is just
beginning to track rescues. In 2016, Home-
land Security Investigations identified and
rescued 820 known child victims from sexual
exploitation.
‘‘But the real number is undoubtedly many
times greater,’’ Moros said. ‘‘As a major seg-
ment of the digital forensic workforce, and
one especially dedicated to combating child
sexual exploitation and trafficking, they
[HEROs] have been instrumental in working
hundreds of those cases.’’
THE ROLE OF THE MILITARY IN COMBATING
HUMAN TRAFFICKING: A SOUTH AFRICAN
PERSPECTIVE
(By Nina Mollema, University of South
Africa)
ABSTRACT
Human trafficking is a complex and di-
verse crime affecting both individuals and
countries across the world. As a significant
facet of transnational organised crime and
one of the most lucrative criminal enter-
prises globally, human trafficking was
ranked as the second most profitable crime
around the world in 2015, making it the fast-
est-growing source of revenue for organised
criminal operations internationally. In 2015,
South Africa implemented comprehensive
antitrafficking legislation. Before such legis-
lation was enacted, the South African gov-
ernment also ratified several international
and regional human rights instruments in
terms of which specific duties are imposed
upon the state to combat and punish the
crime effectively, including the protection of
the rights of victims. The focus of the study
on which this article reports, is the desired
role of the military in combating human
trafficking in South Africa. In 2004, the
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO)
adopted a policy on combating trafficking in
human beings. The policy sets out various
strategies for ensuring regional cooperation
in combating human trafficking. It is sug-
gested that the South African National
Defence Force (SANDF) take the initiative
in formulating a similar policy in order to
effect better co-operation amongst nation
states in Africa, especially in the southern
region of Africa, to combat human traf-
ficking. In order to address the role of the
SANDF in the fight against human traf-
ficking meaningfully and to develop evi-
dence-based strategies and policies, regional
coordination in combating trafficking is
paramount. The article examines current
legislation, instruments and strategies as re-
gards human trafficking in order to make
recommendations for counter-trafficking
policy standards and best practices for the
SANDF.
INTRODUCTION
Although not a novel phenomenon, the
crime of human trafficking is complex, di-
verse, and constantly evolving as traffickers
develop new tactics to trade in human
beings. Human trafficking affects not only
individuals, but also countries across the
world. It has been estimated by various
international organisations that millions of
victims are trapped in trafficking. Although
both international entities and domestic ju-
risdictions have proposed various strategies
to combat the rapidly growing problem of
human trafficking, the combating of this
criminal activity remains a challenge for all
branches of law enforcement, including the
military. The primary international instru-
ment, the United Nations (UN) Protocol to
Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in
Persons, Especially Women and Children,
Supplementing the United Nations Conven-
tion against Transnational Organised Crime
of 2000 (Trafficking Protocol) is already 17
years old; yet, regional and national efforts
to combat trafficking have produced mini-
mal positive results. South Africa is no ex-
ception in this regard. Since the end of
apartheid, the jurisdiction has been experi-
encing an increase of illegal immigrants
from all over Africa, as well as other foreign
countries. It has further been acknowledged
that since 1994, the trafficking of men,
women, and children into various exploita-
tive sectors, such as labour trafficking and
involuntary sex work, amongst others, have
also escalated in South Africa.
This multi-dimensional illicit modern-day
slavery industry must be fought at national,
regional and international level with an in-
tegrated, multi-sectoral approach. In this re-
spect, the SANDF also has a role to play, and
can learn a great deal from NATO, amongst
others, for guidelines and best practices. The
Policy on Combating Trafficking in Human
Beings of 2004 of this intergovernmental
military alliance recognises that human
trafficking feeds on corruption and organised
crime, and has ‘‘the potential to destabilise
fragile governments’’. As no such policy cur-
rently exists in the SANDF, it is proposed
that the Defence Force evaluate and develop
policies, strategies and force design through
the implementation of specific evidence-
based codes of conduct or strategic plans to
combat this offence.
Apart from the violation of the funda-
mental human rights of persons being traf-
ficked, trafficking is a substantial source of
revenue for criminal organisations whose ac-
tivities may destabilise legitimate govern-
ments and undermine the mission of the
military. The crime may become a security
issue and undercut military operations. How-
ever, as known from previous experiences,
military troops themselves can create or in-
crease the demand for trafficked women.
This article is structured as follows: it is
first necessary to explain which conduct falls
under human trafficking in South African
and international law. Second, the measures
government have taken to combat this crime
in South Africa are considered. Next, the
role of the military in South Africa in com-
bating human trafficking is considered and
compared with international and regional ef-
forts. Recommendations are then finally
made for steps to be taken by the military to
play a more significant role in combating
human trafficking.
BACKGROUND TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN SOUTH
AFRICA
Although people have heard of human traf-
ficking, very few people really know what it
entails and the role it plays in international
organised crime. As a significant facet of
transnational organised crime and one of the
most lucrative criminal enterprises globally,
human trafficking was ranked as the second
most profitable crime around the world in
2015, making it the fastest-growing source of
revenue for organised criminal operations
internationally.
In order to combat the trade in human
cargo, legal jurisdictions have adopted a
range of international standards and obliga-
tions, of which the UN’s Trafficking Protocol
is the most significant. Following the proto-
type of the Trafficking Protocol, govern-
ments around the world have also committed
themselves to enact national human traf-
ficking legislation to address modern-day
slavery. In Africa, where the scourge of traf-
ficking is widespread, South Africa is one of
the few nations that actively pursue the pun-
ishment of human trafficking. This is vital
as South Africa with its viable and devel-
oping economy has become a magnet for ille-
gal migrants and human traffickers, attract-
ing people from the whole continent fleeing
from political and economic upheaval, armed
conflict.’’ the HIV/AIDS pandemic, food inse-
curity and unemployment. The resultant
poverty in especially South Africa’s re-
gional neighbours, still grappling with
the aftereffects of colonisation and
failed statehood, has furthermore
caused an exodus to South Africa for
better life opportunities. Traffickers
are said to service the demand of the
very lucrative human smuggling indus-
try, especially in conflict and
postconflict areas. In many illegal mi-
gration cases, displaced people make
desperate decisions by relying on ini-
tially ‘benevolent’ smugglers who
transform into ruthless traffickers,
keeping the illegal migrants captive as
human slaves. Trafficking in the juris-
diction is additionally complex and di-
verse as it consists of culturally unique
trafficking types such as ukuthwala.
The country has been listed as a
human trafficking source, transit, and
destination country for men, women
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.016 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4713
June 18, 2019
and children to, from and within South
Africa for mainly labour and sex traf-
ficking.
South Africa has the highest number of
asylum seekers in the world. Although South
Africa supports large numbers of refugees
and asylum seekers, the jurisdiction is also
home to an estimated five million illegal im-
migrants, including some three million
Zimbabweans. In response to the dynamics of
supply and demand, migration (which has al-
ways been endemic in Africa) to South Afri-
ca is aided by the porous nature of the coun-
try’s borders and coast lines, as well as inef-
fective monitoring of land, rail and sea
transportation modes. Trafficked people are
indistinguishable amongst these flows.
In order to tackle the multi-dimensional
crime of human trafficking in the country,
South Africa became a signatory to the Traf-
ficking Protocol in 2000, and ratified the in-
strument in 2004. As a result, the jurisdiction
became subject to international obligations
in terms of which specific duties were im-
posed upon the state to combat and punish
the crime effectively and to protect the
rights of victims. The need to enact domestic
anti-trafficking legislation was prioritised,
and on 29 July 2013, the Prevention and Com-
bating of Trafficking in Persons Act 7 of 2013
(Trafficking Act) was signed into law but
only became operational on 9 August 2015.
The Act introduces a universally acceptable
but still country-specific definition of
human trafficking:
‘Trafficking’ includes the delivery, recruit-
ment, procurement, capture, removal, trans-
portation, transfer, harbouring, sale, ex-
change, lease, disposal or receiving of a per-
son, or the adoption of a child facilitated or
secured through legal or illegal means, with-
in or across the borders of the Republic, of a
person trafficked or an immediate family
member of the person trafficked, by means
of:
(a) a threat of harm;
(b) the threat or use of force, intimidation
or other forms of coercion;
(c) the abuse of vulnerability;
(d) fraud;
(e) deception or false pretences;
(f) debt bondage;
(g) abduction;
(h) kidnapping;
(i) the abuse of power;
(j) the giving or receiving of payments or
benefits to obtain the consent of a person
having control or authority over another
person; or
(k) the giving or receiving of payments,
compensation, rewards, benefits or any other
advantage,
for the purpose of any form or manner of
exploitation, sexual grooming or abuse of
such person, including the commission of
any sexual offence or any offence of a sexual
nature in any other law against such person
or performing any sexual act with such per-
son, whether committed in or outside the
borders of the Republic.
In essence, this definition holds that per-
sons are trafficked if they have been moved
within a country or to another country, as a
result of force, fraud or manipulation and
are exploited or compelled to work under
threat of violence for no pay, beyond subsist-
ence. The definition is very broad, and ex-
cept for the requirement that a person be re-
moved, transported, or transferred from one
place to another, other acts such as the mere
harbouring of a person through a threat of
intimidation with the intent to exploit the
person are sufficient for the crime to be com-
mitted. With regard to the role of the mili-
tary, the moving of a person from one coun-
try to another, or within the country,
through deceptive or violent means for any
type of exploitative purpose is of particular
significance. The exploitative purposes may
include forced labour, involuntary sex work,
begging, stealing, drug running, forced mar-
riage and the sale of body parts, amongst
others.
Amongst other requirements, the Traf-
ficking Protocol obliges member states to
criminalise trafficking, and to investigate
and prosecute traffickers. The Trafficking
Protocol also instructs that states must
adopt or strengthen legislative or other
measures to discourage the demand that fos-
ters all forms of exploitation of persons that
lead to trafficking. States are to determine
which measures to take in accordance with
the domestic legislation and policies of each
state as well as in accordance with the finan-
cial and human resource capabilities of the
state.
Another important condition that the Pro-
tocol stipulates for signatory states is to un-
dertake border control measures. Border
management is one of the roles the SANDF
is expected to play in South Africa, along
with other secondary functions such as
peacekeeping and humanitarian support.
However, very few joint efforts have been
made with neighbouring countries to deal
multilaterally with border issues and crimes
such as human trafficking and human smug-
gling. Co-operation between South Africa
and its neighbours in this regard is usually
not of a preventative nature, but only takes
place after the occurrence of smuggling or
trafficking has been discovered.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
ask my colleagues to support this
amendment.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of Chairman
VISCLOSKY’S En Bloc Amendment, which in-
cludes Jackson Lee #12.
I wish to thank Chairman MCGOVERN and
Ranking Member COLE of the Rules Com-
mittee for making this Jackson Lee Amend-
ment in order.
I thank Chairwoman VISCLOSKY and Ranking
Member CALVERT for their hard work in bring-
ing Division C, the Defense portion of this om-
nibus appropriations legislative package, to
the floor and for their devotion to the men and
women of the Armed Forces who risk their
lives to keep our nation safe and their work in
ensuring that they have resources needed to
keep our Armed Forces the greatest fighting
force for peace on earth.
Madam Chair, thank you for the opportunity
to explain my amendment, which is simple
and straightforward and affirms an example of
the national goodness that makes America the
most exceptional nation on earth.
The purpose of Jackson Lee Amendment
#12, which is identical to the amendment
adopted twice in the last Congress, is to pro-
vide the Secretary of Defense flexibility to allo-
cate resources needed to provide technical
assistance by U.S. military women to military
women in other countries combating violence
as a weapon of war, terrorism, human traf-
ficking, narcotics trafficking.
Madam Chair, the United States is com-
mitted to combating violent extremism, pro-
tecting our borders and the globe from the
scourge of terrorism.
The United States Armed Forces possess
an unparalleled expertise and technological
capability that will aid not only in combating
and defeating terrorists who hate our country
and prey upon innocent persons, especially
women, girls, and the elderly.
But we must recognize that notwithstanding
our extraordinary technical military capabilities,
we face adversaries who adapt very quickly
because they are not constrained by geo-
graphic limitations or norms of morality and
decency.
Al Qaeda, Boko Haram, Al Shabaab, ISIS/
ISIL and other militant terrorists, including the
Sinai’s Ansar Beit al-Maqdis in the Sinai Pe-
ninsula which poses a threat to Egypt.
Jackson Lee Amendment #12 help provide
the Department of Defense with the resources
needed to provide technical assistance to
countries on innovative strategies to provide
defense technologies and resources that pro-
mote the security of the American people and
allied nation states.
Terrorism, human trafficking, narcotics traf-
ficking and their impact on women and girls
across the globe has had a great adverse im-
pact on us all.
According to a UNICEF report, rape, torture
and human trafficking by terrorist and militant
groups have been employed as weapons of
war, affecting over twenty thousand women
and girls.
Looking at the history of terrorism highlights
the importance of providing technical assist-
ance through our military might, as this en-
ables us to combat terrorism which now can
plague us here in the United States.
Jackson Lee Amendment #12 will help curb
terrorism abroad by making available Amer-
ican technical military expertise to military in
other countries, like Nigeria, who are com-
bating violent jihadists in their country and to
keep those terrorists out of our country.
Time and again American lives have been
lost at the hands of terrorists.
These victims include Christians, Muslims,
journalists, health care providers, relief work-
ers, schoolchildren, and members of the diplo-
matic corps and the Armed Services.
This is why the technical assistance offered
by our military personnel is integral to pro-
moting security operation of intelligence, sur-
veillance, and reconnaissance aircraft for mis-
sions to empower local forces to combat ter-
rorism.
Terrorists across the globe have wreaked
havoc on our society and cannot not be toler-
ated or ignored, for their actions pose a threat
to our national security and the security of the
world.
Madam Chair, from the United States to Af-
rica to Europe to Asia and the Middle East, it
is clear that combating terrorism remains one
of highest national priorities.
Collectively, helping our neighbors and their
military build capacity to combat terrorism,
eradicate human trafficking, stop narcotics
trafficking and negate their impact on women
and girls across the globe serves our national
interest.
For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to
support Jackson Lee Amendment #12 by vot-
ing for the Chairman’s En Bloc Amendment to
Division C of RCP 116–17.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
support the underlying amendment.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. WALBERG).
b 1515
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Chair, I rise
today to support my amendment,
which would prohibit taxpayer money
from going directly to the Taliban.
According to recent news stories, the
Defense Department asked Congress for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.018 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4714 June 18, 2019
funding that could be used to reim-
burse the Taliban for transportation
and other expenses. That is quite sim-
ply absurd.
For many years, I have worked in a
bipartisan way to shine a light on how
American tax dollars are being
misspent in Afghanistan. There have
been a number of oversight reports
conducted by the Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruc-
tion that highlight how these programs
have been mismanaged and poorly run
for years.
The SIGAR has identified a dis-
turbing amount of waste, fraud, and
abuse totaling in the billions of dollars.
This level of wasteful spending is stag-
gering, yet we continued pouring
money down the drain anyway. But
sending taxpayer dollars straight to
the Taliban, despite the price paid by
men and women in uniform, is the ulti-
mate insult.
We owe it to the taxpayers to not
waste any more of their money.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Chair, I
rise today in support of my amendment, which
would increase the funding level to Historically
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) from
the Department of Defense by four million dol-
lars above current levels. I want to thank Ap-
propriations Subcommittee Chairman VIS-
CLOSKY for his support of this program and of
this amendment.
Since 1837, HBCUs have served as training
grounds for generations of African American
students and scholars, and more recently,
these important institutions have strengthened
America’s scientific workforce. Educating stu-
dents and communities as anchors of aca-
demic excellence, HBCUs have a storied past
and a dynamic present in their unique role of
raising up new academic leaders against the
grain of decades of discrimination and racism.
Building on this long history of achievement
through investment, my amendment will in-
crease resources for HBCUs by strengthening
the Department of Defense’s investments in
the physical sciences, mathematics, and engi-
neering programs at HBCUs and their cor-
responding national security benefits.
HBCUs support some of the most cutting-
edge defense and national security-related re-
search in the country. Armed with these con-
tinued investments, HBCUs will be able to
maintain their unique role in buttressing impor-
tant national security initiatives.
For example, these programs support re-
search in mobile computers that can be de-
ployed to aid our servicemen and service-
women on the battlefield.
Additionally, these programs are helping to
improve the way our intelligence community
classifies and manages large infrared photo-
graphs taken on important reconnaissance
missions.
At a time when we are encouraging more
training for students in the STEM fields, and
promoting the benefits of a more diverse work-
force in research and in the high-tech sectors,
increasing DoD’s investments for Historically
Black Colleges and Universities strengthens
these goals and institutions, as well as our na-
tional security. I am encouraged that this
amendment was included in the package of bi-
partisan en bloc amendments. I urge my col-
leagues to support this amendment.
Ms. MOORE. Madam Chair, I rise in support
of my amendment to increase funding for the
Air National Guard’s Facility Modernization
and Sustainment account. I appreciate the
support of the chairman for its inclusion in en
bloc No. 2 to the Defense Appropriations bill.
I am so proud of the work of the men and
women in the National Guard, including in my
home state of Wisconsin.
Unfortunately, decrepit, outdated, and de-
caying Air National Guard facilities are a dis-
service to the men and women who put on the
uniform.
They deserve facilities that are up-to-date
and which will help improve their ability to
carry out their missions in defense of our na-
tion and their communities.
Yet, we know that such aging and inefficient
facilities exist nationwide including in my dis-
trict where the 128th Air Refueling Wing is op-
erating out of a building which was built in
1970, has aging and hard to maintain critical
building systems and where much of the cur-
rent square footage is unusable. That’s ac-
cording to the Defense Department. This is
not an isolated story which is why I think an
increase here is necessary.
I appreciate the chairman, in his mark, for
boosting funding for this critical account. I ap-
plaud his recognition of the situation facing
many Air Guard units across the country and
his commitment to putting funding into this ac-
count.
But the needs simply continue to outpace
available resources.
I am aware that there are National Guard
units across our country that have worthwhile
projects directly related to military readiness
that they would like to pursue. This additional
funding should be prioritized for projects that
can help increase mission readiness at mini-
mal additional costs to the taxpayers.
For example, projects that would give help
Air Guard units take advantage of and utilize
available local assets such as national jet fuel
pipelines to provide instant access to addi-
tional fuel reserves and provide a critical sec-
ond, reliable, secure and convenient fuel deliv-
ery method that would help ensure that stra-
tegic missions such as refueling could con-
tinue uninterrupted should the primary method
of receiving fuel be disrupted.
Now that the House has approved my
amendment, I would urge the Defense Depart-
ment to utilize these additional funds for need-
ed projects that directly sustain mission readi-
ness and contribute to our national defense.
The reality is that there are plenty out there.
Again, I support the Chairman’s mark and I
am grateful for the inclusion of my amendment
to help enable more projects that can build
greater resiliency for execution of critical State
and Federal Air National Guard missions.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Chair,
Lyme disease is the most prevalent vector-
borne disease in the United States today, and
members of the U.S. Armed Forces are not
immune to its debilitating effects, as they train
and complete exercises out in grassy and
wooded areas.
According to the February 2018 Medical
Surveillance Monthly Report, published by the
Armed Forces Health Surveillance Branch,
tick-borne diseases accounted for more than
half of the confirmed cases of vector-borne
diseases among service members—active
duty and reserve—recorded over seven years,
from 2010–2016. Lyme disease alone had the
largest number of confirmed cases.
In its inaugural report to Congress, the fed-
eral Tick-Borne Disease Working Group stated
that ‘‘Tick-Borne Diseases have rapidly be-
come a serious and growing threat to public
health in the United States. Despite many sci-
entific unknowns, experts agree that the inci-
dence and distribution of tick-borne diseases
are increasing.’’ The Working Group also stat-
ed that ‘‘Federal funding for tick-borne dis-
eases is less per new surveillance case than
that of any other disease.’’
While the tick-borne disease research at
CDMRP has been continuously funded at $5
million since Fiscal Year 2016, the Working
Group’s report is a sign that there is still much
more to be done.
The amendment I offer today will increase
funding by $2 million for the Congressionally
Directed Medical Research Program (CDMRP)
for the purposes of tick-borne disease re-
search. The added funding will enable the
CDMRP to support more innovative research
to address gaps in knowledge and information
on tick-borne diseases. Military and civilian
personnel and their dependents who are at
risk will be better informed and prepared with
enhanced awareness, education, and research
programs.
I urge support for this amendment—we can-
not shortchange our federal responsibility. We
owe it to the countless patients, including our
men and women in uniform suffering from tick-
borne diseases and their families.
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Chair, I rise today
in support of the en bloc amendment, and to
thank the Defense Subcommittee Chairman,
Mr. VISCLOSKY, for including the Sherrill
Amendment 58 in the en bloc package.
My amendment reduces the Surface and
Shallow Water Mine Countermeasures pro-
gram by $5 million in order to add $5 million
for the Navy to advance the qualification and
certification of Advanced Manufacturing proc-
esses for the integration of 3–D printed com-
ponents into undersea warfare platforms. This
amendment furthers the Navy’s goal of em-
bracing cutting-edge technologies.
3–D printing reduces the cost of manufac-
turing parts for which there is limited supply. It
also creates unique parts that would otherwise
be prohibitively expensive to make with tradi-
tional manufacturing.
I am very proud of the work Marotta Con-
trols in Montville, New Jersey, is doing to sup-
port this very effort. Marotta is a family-owned
business, now in its third generation of owner-
ship. President and CEO Patrick Marotta is
proudly carrying on the work his grandfather
began when he founded the company during
WWII. I thank Marotta Controls for their work
to ensure efficiency and quality control to en-
able our Navy’s submariners to continue to
play their critical role in defense of our nation.
I thank Defense Subcommittee Chairman
VISCLOSKY and Ranking Member CALVERT for
their leadership in adopting this important pro-
vision.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendments en bloc offered by
the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.019 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4715
June 18, 2019
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendments en bloc
offered by the gentleman from Indiana
will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MR. LANGEVIN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 13 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 246, line 18, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $10,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $10,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Rhode Island (Mr. LANGEVIN) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I would like to begin
by thanking the Rules Committee for
making my amendment in order, as
well as Chairman VISCLOSKY and Rank-
ing Member CALVERT for their hard
work on this division of the appropria-
tions package.
Madam Chair, I offer this bipartisan
amendment with my good friends and
colleagues, Mr. LAMBORN and Mr. LIEU,
in support of electromagnetic railgun,
a technology that has been described as
‘‘revolutionary’’ and a potential multi-
mission ‘‘game changer.’’
The electromagnetic railgun truly
transforms naval power projection.
This technology can rapidly launch
high-velocity projectiles capable of
precision strikes at a range of more
than 100 miles, all without the need for
combustible propellants or motors.
Ships deploying with this system will
have longer ranges, deeper magazines,
and lower cost-per-shot than conven-
tional naval artillery.
This technology has already received
initial investments; however, current
and future investment is absolutely
vital to ensure the railgun module
being designed is built to meet the
needs of the Future Surface Combatant
specifications and can be tested aboard
existing naval vessels.
The additional $10 million provided
by this amendment will help keep de-
livery of an integrated prototype
mount system on its original timeline
of being ready by 2021. Continued in-
vestment in this program will also sup-
port live-fire engagement testing using
hypervelocity projectiles and the next
generation of shipboard compatible
pulsed power.
While I believe the United States
continues to lead the way, our adver-
saries are not resting on their laurels,
as they are also investing, researching,
and developing these groundbreaking
technologies. Earlier this year, for in-
stance, reports emerged of the Chinese
Navy fielding an electromagnetic
railgun. So it is absolutely critical
that we not allow them or anyone to
beat us to the punch.
Given the maturity of the technology
and the urgency impressed upon us by
our competitors, I hope the House will
send a well-funded railgun program to
the Senate.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
rise in opposition, although I am not
opposed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Indiana is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentleman’s persistence to
provide robust funding for the Navy’s
electromagnetic railgun and recognize
that he has offered a similar amend-
ment on the fiscal year 2019 appropria-
tions bill.
I would point out to my colleagues
that the bill currently fully funds the
budget request of the administration at
$15 million for the railgun program.
While I do not think the additional
$10 million investment will accelerate
the development of a demonstrator
mount and continued testing, I have no
objection to the gentleman’s amend-
ment.
Mr. CALVERT. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. VISCLOSKY. I yield to the gen-
tleman from California.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I ac-
cept the gentleman’s amendment.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
have no further speakers, and I am pre-
pared to close. I yield myself the bal-
ance of my time.
Madam Chair, first of all, I want to
thank Chairman VISCLOSKY and Rank-
ing Member CALVERT for their com-
ments and their support and for their
hard work on the consideration of this
division of the appropriations package
and all they have done and continue to
do to advance our national security
and make sure that our warfighters
never enter a fair fight.
This bipartisan amendment supports
game-changing technology that is al-
ready demonstrating tactically rel-
evant capability. Just last month at
White Sands Missile Range, the Navy
fired a railgun on a 34-degree trajec-
tory at 6 megajoules and will be firing
at 20 megajoules in September.
By building upon years of develop-
ment and investment, the Navy railgun
will be tested as early as next year
aboard surface vessels, firing explosive
and nonexplosive projectiles at air- and
sea-based targets.
Along with my colleagues Mr. LAM-
BORN and Mr. LIEU, I urge support of
this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island (Mr. LAN-
GEVIN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Rhode Island will
be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 15 OFFERED BY MR. LANGEVIN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 15 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 245, line 5, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Rhode Island (Mr. LANGEVIN) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, my amendment would
provide $2 million for civics education
grants under the Department of De-
fense National Defense Education Pro-
gram as authorized by the House fiscal
year 2020 National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act that was reported out of the
Armed Services Committee last week.
Madam Chair, it is not an exaggera-
tion to say American democracy is
under attack, and we need to shore up
our defenses. Foreign governments,
particularly Russia, are actively en-
gaged in efforts to undermine our de-
mocracy and sow seeds of discord
among the electorate, and they have
been frighteningly successful.
In the special counsel’s report on
Russian interference in the 2016 Presi-
dential election, Director Mueller de-
scribed Russia’s election-meddling op-
erations as ‘‘sweeping and systemic.’’
Russia systematically waged a misin-
formation campaign to weaken our
confidence and participation in the
democratic process, including by dis-
couraging voting, undermining con-
fidence in our institutions of govern-
ment, promoting false political nar-
ratives, and widening social divisions.
Madam Chair, we need to increase
our resilience to these attacks on our
democracy, and I believe civics edu-
cation must be a major part of this
strategy. Civics programs provide stu-
dents with an understanding of Amer-
ican law, how government works, and
the skills to participate in democracy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.020 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4716 June 18, 2019
A citizenry armed with a civics back-
ground, I believe, is absolutely crucial
to a healthy democracy; and in the
context of the threats that we face
today, I believe it is vital to the sta-
bility of our democracy.
Unfortunately, only 17 percent of
Americans say they can trust the Fed-
eral Government to do what is right at
least most of the time; only 26 percent
of Americans can name all three
branches of government; and less than
30 percent of fourth, eighth, and
twelfth grade students scored pro-
ficient on the 2014 National Assessment
of Education Progress civics test.
Furthermore, in 2016, only 56 percent
of the United States voting-age popu-
lation voted in the Presidential elec-
tion, a number lower than most other
developed democratic nations.
It should come as no surprise that we
are vulnerable to misinformation cam-
paigns. Too many of us do not fully un-
derstand or engage in the democratic
process.
Madam Chair, I believe that we need
to increase participation and improve
civic knowledge, and education is, I be-
lieve, the way to do it.
$2 million for civics education is just
a start, but it will fund the develop-
ment of innovative, evidence-based
civics programs at the Department of
Defense schools to start with.
Working with colleges and univer-
sities or expert nonprofits, DOD
schools will help pilot new curricula
targeted to improving longitudinal
metrics, including democratic partici-
pation and media literacy. This will
allow us to build new programs, test
their efficacy, and, from there, chart a
broader path forward.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment and encour-
age the development of more effective
civics education programs.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
rise in opposition, although I am not
opposed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Indiana is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
simply want to take the time to thank
my colleague for the work he is doing
to advocate and advance knowledge of
our Nation’s youth on the rights and
duties of citizenship. Again, I thank
him for his work.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
have no further speakers, and I will
close by just thanking Chairman VIS-
CLOSKY and Ranking Member CALVERT
for their work on the Defense Sub-
committee portion of this package and
for their commitment to our national
defense.
As I said, I am troubled by the work
of our enemies and adversaries to try
to undermine confidence in govern-
ment, sowing divisions among the elec-
torate. I am hoping that by strength-
ening our civics education, starting
with our young people, we will build re-
siliency into protecting our democracy
and everything that we love about this
country.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
b 1530
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island (Mr. LAN-
GEVIN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Rhode Island will
be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 19 OFFERED BY MR. LIPINSKI
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 19 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 247, line 17, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $10,000,000) (in-
creased by $10,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. LIPINSKI) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of my
amendment to provide an additional
$10 million for the National Security
Innovation Network, or NSIN, which
was originally called MD5.
Section 225 of the 2018 NDAA author-
ized the national security innovation
and entrepreneurial education pro-
grams, including what is now known as
NSIN. NSIN aims to educate and build
a network of innovators and entre-
preneurs equipped with the expertise,
know-how, incentives, and resources
required to develop, commercialize,
and apply technology for defense and
national security applications.
NSIN initiatives provide education
and technology innovation and entre-
preneurship. Of note, they provided a
unique pathway for veterans to lever-
age their expertise, while learning cut-
ting-edge business innovation method-
ology, and apply their knowledge to
new national security problems.
Through these initiatives, DOD is
growing a cadre of entrepreneurs that
are adept at critical thinking, innova-
tive problem solving, and the creation
of successful ventures that deliver eco-
nomic national security and social
value.
One initiative in the National Secu-
rity Innovation Network is the highly
successful Hacking for Defense course.
Hacking for Defense, or H4D, is a
course currently taught at more than
two dozen universities across the Na-
tion. It pairs student teams with spon-
sors from across the defense and intel-
ligence community to apply lean start-
up methodology developed in Silicon
Valley to rapidly solve challenging,
nonclassified national security prob-
lems.
H4D was authorized in the 2018 Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act and
has been taught for 3 years, already
producing innovative solutions to na-
tional security problems. For example,
a team at Columbia University helped
Special Operations Command automate
communication of essential informa-
tion from the battlefield to Central
Command; a Stanford team helped de-
velop an innovative way for Navy
SEALs to spend less time underwater.
These and other successful innova-
tions have been developed by students
in these classes. The innovation and
entrepreneurial education that occurs
with H4D also helps to train the next
generation of our industrial-based
innovators. In this way, it provides tre-
mendous benefit to our national secu-
rity.
Madam Chair, I have had discussions
with Chairman VISCLOSKY on this
amendment about the best way to
move forward with this funding in-
crease, and I believe we have come to
an agreement on the best way to move
forward to get an even bigger increase.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY), chairman of the Appropria-
tions Defense Subcommittee.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentleman yielding, and I
certainly do support his amendment.
The amendment expands the Hacking
for Defense program, designed to pro-
vide students the opportunity to learn
how to work with the Department and
intelligence community to better ad-
dress the Nation’s emerging threats. It
is an important activity, and he is ab-
solutely correct.
Madam Chair, I would point out for
my colleagues that, in the current fis-
cal year, this program was funded at
$15 million. In the current budget—and
I appreciate his advocacy on behalf of
this program—that has now been in-
creased to $40 million. Money is not ev-
erything, but it is important to this
program to make sure it is adequately
funded.
I, again, thank the gentleman very
much for his work.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Chair, I thank
Chairman VISCLOSKY for his work on
this appropriations bill and for work-
ing with me on this amendment.
America’s strength and entrepreneur-
ship and innovation, we need to use
those to protect our Nation in a rap-
idly evolving threat environment and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.023 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4717
June 18, 2019
maintaining our security. A small in-
crease in investment in Hacking for
Defense helps us do this, while also
training the next generation of
innovators who understand the need to
contribute to our national security.
Madam Chair, with the agreement of
the chairman, I withdraw my amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment
is withdrawn.
AMENDMENT NO. 21 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 21 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, as the designee of the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. SPEIER), I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of division C (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement Direc-
tive-type Memorandum (DTM)-19-004, Mili-
tary Service by Transgender Persons and
Persons with Gender Dysphoria, March 12,
2019 (effective date April 12, 2019).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. BROWN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise to offer this
amendment on behalf of Congress-
woman JACKIE SPEIER from California,
who has been a determined leader and
partner in pushing back on this admin-
istration’s ban on transgender service-
members.
Madam Chair, this amendment is
very simple. It states that no money
appropriated in this Defense appropria-
tions bill will be used to implement the
President’s ban on transgender service-
members. No money shall be used to
ask whether or not a servicemember
has transitioned: to force them to re-
main closeted in a Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell environment; to force them out to
their colleagues before they are ready
to outwardly express who they are; and
to ultimately force them out of the
service.
The President and his administration
wrongfully argue that it is about mili-
tary readiness and unit cohesion, but
these arguments are the same ones
that were made to keep the military
racially segregated.
Madam Chair, my service in an inte-
grated armed service did not harm
readiness, and neither does the service
of the more than 14,000 transgender sol-
diers, sailors, airmen, and marines.
Transgender servicemembers in-
crease lethality and readiness. They
have served honorably and have re-
ceived prestige commendations. They
are proof that anyone who can serve
should be afforded the opportunity to
serve. This legacy of honorable service
will outlast this administration, this
transgender ban, and this administra-
tion’s attack on transgender Ameri-
cans everywhere.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to do what is right: Put country before
party; defend the thousands of Ameri-
cans who are making the greatest sac-
rifice they can make for our country.
Defend the brave and patriotic service-
members who all came before Congress
to talk about their service and the
service of other transgender service-
members. Defend them unquestionably.
Defend the thousands of transgender
servicemembers impacted. Defend
them as they have defended us.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, this
amendment risks undermining the
readiness of our military at a time
when we can least afford it. It does so
by prohibiting the implementation of a
careful and thoughtful policy devel-
oped by a panel of military experts last
year regarding military service by
transgender individuals.
Then-Secretary of Defense Mattis
wrote that, in his best professional
judgment, allowing military service by
transgender individuals in the absence
of this policy could ‘‘undermine the
readiness, disrupt the unit cohesion,
and impose an unreasonable burden on
the military that is not conductive to
military effectiveness and lethality.’’
This current policy is not—I repeat,
not—a ban on service by transgender
individuals. It carefully balances the
readiness needs of the military with
the medical needs of transgender indi-
viduals who wish to serve.
As new recruits, those individuals
can serve openly under their biological
gender so long as they have not suf-
fered from gender dysphoria within 36
months and have not undergone gender
transition procedures.
Furthermore, the new policy only ap-
plies to those seeking to join the mili-
tary after its April 12, 2019, implemen-
tation and allows the service and the
Coast Guard to waive its application in
individual cases.
This issue is not one of social policy
but of deployability. Individuals with
medical conditions that do not allow
them to deploy, such as those identi-
fied in the policy, adversely impact
military readiness and reduce the mili-
tary’s warfighting capability.
I would also point out that individ-
uals who require daily injections for
other medical conditions are also not
deployable, such as people who have di-
abetes.
Madam Chair, the military is an in-
stitution with one primary mission: to
fight and win our Nation’s wars. Any-
thing that interferes with its readiness
for that mission poses an unacceptable
risk to our men and women in uniform.
Unfortunately, this amendment poses
just such a risk by disregarding the
military’s professional judgment and
interfering with the policy developed
to preserve warfighting readiness.
Madam Chair, I strongly oppose this
amendment. I urge my colleagues to do
so as well, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, no one would argue that mili-
tary readiness and deployability are
paramount, but transgender service-
members do not inherently impact ei-
ther.
Every service chief testified that
transgender service would not disrupt
unit cohesion or readiness and empha-
sized soldier deployability and not
their gender identity.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY), chairman of the Appropria-
tions Defense Subcommittee.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentleman yielding.
I would point out that the chiefs of
the Army, Navy, and Air Force and the
Commandant of the Marine Corps testi-
fied that the inclusive policy adopted
under the Obama administration has
caused no readiness issues. A panel of
retired military Surgeons General re-
leased a report finding the ban’s ra-
tionale for inclusion is contradicted by
ample evidence and that the ban
‘‘harms readiness through forced dis-
honesty, wasted talent, double stand-
ards, and barriers to adequate care.’’
Madam Chair, this is the right thing
to do, and I would simply close by say-
ing, with so much anger and so much
hate in this world today, it is time to
be kind to people.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman
from Maryland for yielding.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, may I inquire as to how much
time I have remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
has 11⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I yield the balance of my time to
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
ESCOBAR).
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Chair, I
thank my colleague and also Congress-
woman SPEIER for their leadership on
this critical issue.
Madam Chair, I am so disappointed
that in 2019 this amendment is even
necessary. Our military is strong and
capable because of our dedicated serv-
icemembers, including nearly 15,000
transgender troops.
This year, the Armed Services Com-
mittee held a hearing on the Presi-
dent’s policy, and Active-Duty
transgender servicemembers testified
before the House for the first time.
Each one was an incredibly capable, ex-
perienced, and decorated leader.
The DOD’s exhaustive review found
no valid reason to ban these patriotic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.025 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4718 June 18, 2019
Americans who meet the same criteria
as their peers.
For 3 years, our military has oper-
ated under a de facto inclusive policy
where thousands could serve openly
with, to quote General Millie, ‘‘pre-
cisely zero unit cohesion problems.’’
b 1545
Eighteen militaries already have in-
clusive policies without incidents or
impact to readiness, and the facts re-
veal this policy for what it is: discrimi-
nation.
I urge my colleagues to support Ms.
SPEIER’s amendment.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Maryland will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 24 OFFERED BY MR. AMASH
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 24 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of division C (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to submit a cer-
tification under section 702(h) of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978, or for
an acquisition pursuant to such a certifi-
cation, if such certification does not include
the following sentence: ‘‘This certification
does not authorize any acquisition that in-
tentionally targets a person reasonably be-
lieved to be located outside the United
States if a significant purpose of such tar-
geting is to acquire the communications of a
particular, known person reasonably be-
lieved to be in the United States, any acqui-
sition of a communication as to which no
participant is a person who is targeted pur-
suant to the authorized acquisition, or any
acquisition of a communication known to be
entirely domestic’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. AMASH) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chairwoman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
For more than a year, Republicans
have been speaking forcefully about
the use of FISA to gather intelligence
on people associated with the Trump
campaign. The concern is that some in-
formation was inappropriately in-
cluded in an application submitted to
the FISA court which then found prob-
able cause and granted an order to au-
thorize surveillance of a Trump asso-
ciate.
I appreciate my colleague’s concerns
about Americans’ Fourth Amendment
rights, but if my colleagues are con-
cerned about the part of FISA used
during the 2016 Presidential campaign,
they should be terrified of section 702.
Under section 702 of FISA, the FISA
court does not approve targets. There
are no individualized applications or
requirements to show probable cause in
order to collect communications. The
government can search and sweep in
billions of communications, including
communications of Americans, and
then query that data for a particular
American’s communications without a
warrant.
The communications can be used to
investigate and prosecute Americans.
The government can use an American’s
data to send them to prison without
ever obtaining a warrant for it.
The Amash-Lofgren amendment puts
in basic safeguards to allow the govern-
ment to continue using section 702 for
its stated purpose of gathering foreign
intelligence, while limiting the govern-
ment’s warrantless collection of Amer-
icans’ communications under FISA.
This amendment gives my Repub-
lican colleagues an opportunity to
show that their concern about Fourth
Amendment violations extends to the
countless Americans that are impacted
by the government’s warrantless FISA
surveillance.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
rise in strong opposition to the gentle-
man’s amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Indiana is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, the
proposed change inserts a new test for
the certification of acquisition and is
likely meant to make it more difficult
for the NSA to target foreign nationals
if the intended target is in communica-
tion with someone in the United
States.
I would point out, however, to the
gentleman that this is an appropria-
tions bill. This is not an authorization
bill. The amendment is a serious
change in policy and deserves more
than 10 minutes of debate in this
Chamber on our bill.
The issue belongs in the authorizing
committees. I do not believe that this
amendment has benefited from the
work of the authorization process, and
I do believe it would potentially put
American lives at greater risk.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chairwoman, a
vote for this amendment is also a vote
to keep the President in check. For 2
years now my Democratic colleagues
have spoken about the administra-
tion’s violation of civil liberties and its
disregard for laws passed by Congress.
Section 702 is a broad authority with
limited oversight and its regular use
involves the warrantless collection of
Americans’ data. Even under previous
administrations, the government has
misled or kept information from Con-
gress about its use of surveillance au-
thorities, including their impact on
Americans.
The government has also repeatedly
failed to abide by legal limitations
placed on those surveillance powers.
The Fourth Amendment recognizes
that broad surveillance powers are too
dangerous to be put in the hands of any
President.
The Amash-Lofgren amendment pro-
tects Fourth Amendment secured
rights by limiting the ability of the
President to unconstitutionally collect
Americans’ communications without a
warrant.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair-
woman, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. CONAWAY).
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Chairwoman,
I rise in strong opposition to this
amendment. For over 3 years, the
House Intelligence Committee posted
bipartisan classified and unclassified
education sessions for Members to
learn about FISA section 702.
FISA section 702 is a critical national
security authority that has helped the
United States collect vital intelligence
on terrorists and other hostile actors
located overseas. After vigorous de-
bate, we were able to pass a bipartisan,
bicameral compromise bill in the last
Congress that preserved the oper-
ational flexibility of section 702 while
instituting reforms to further protect
U.S. persons’ privacy.
President Trump signed this legisla-
tion into law in January of 2018. The
amendment today seeks to reopen a de-
bate that was settled last Congress.
Rather than debating this issue within
the relevant committees of jurisdic-
tion, however, Members who lost the
debate last year now seek to have an-
other bite at that apple to subvert the
legislative process by bypassing those
committees. If passed, I fear this
amendment will have devastating con-
sequences on our national security.
First, the amendment creates new,
strict requirements on targeting of for-
eign actors overseas just because the
hostile foreign actor is communicating
with an associate in the United States.
If this amendment were to pass, if a
terrorist located in a foreign country
communicates with conspirators lo-
cated in the United States, the intel-
ligence community might not be able
to use section 702 to target that ter-
rorist because he is communicating
with a person in the United States.
For example, the intelligence com-
munity was able to thwart Najibullah
Zazi’s planned terrorist attack to deto-
nate explosives in Manhattan. If this
amendment were enacted, the FBI and
NSA might not have been able to use
702 to target the al-Qaida courier in
Pakistan communicating back to con-
spirators in the United States, thus re-
sulting in another terrorist attack in
New York City.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.028 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4719
June 18, 2019
Section 702 was enacted to prevent
this type of event. This example illus-
trates the amendment’s callous dis-
regard for the history of the program.
Second, the amendment would limit
NSA’s abouts communication collec-
tion. Abouts communication collection
takes place in NSA’s upstream collec-
tion, and due to how internet commu-
nications work, allows NSA to collect
the communications that may ref-
erence a 702 target’s email address.
Again, we debated this issue last
Congress and placed a statutory re-
striction on NSA’s ability to continue
abouts collection until meeting certain
requirements.
I strongly urge opposition to this
amendment.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chairwoman,
how much time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Michigan has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chairwoman,
my colleague is parroting the same
thing we hear each time we try to
make any reforms to the government
surveillance authorities. These argu-
ments are no longer credible.
Just a few months ago, the former
Director of National Intelligence ad-
mitted that the government ‘‘may have
oversold’’ the importance of the NSA’s
dragnet of Americans’ phone records
when Congress was considering reforms
in 2013. Now we have seen reports that
the program has been shuttered en-
tirely despite the government’s dire
warnings about limiting it to protect
Americans’ rights.
Madam Chair, my amendment still
allows the government to use section
702 for its purpose of surveilling for-
eigners overseas. All it does is limit
things like collecting fully domestic
communications.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair-
woman, I understand I have the right
to close, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chair, I yield 30
seconds to the gentleman from Texas,
(Mr. ROY).
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I thank the
gentleman from Michigan, and I want
to rise to offer my support for his tire-
less efforts on this topic, in particular.
It should not be a hard question that
the American citizens, the people who
live here afforded protections under
our Constitution, should not be tar-
geted unnecessarily, even when we are
doing our appropriate job to target
those who wish to do us harm abroad.
I believe that the amendment in
question attempts to do just that, to
ensure we have those tools to target
those abroad while protecting Amer-
ican citizens, and I thank the gen-
tleman for his efforts.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chair, may I
ask how much time I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Michigan has 13⁄4 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chair, I yield 30
seconds to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. JORDAN).
Mr. JORDAN. Madam Chairwoman, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Michigan and the gentlewoman from
California for sponsoring this amend-
ment. This is needed.
I just want to remind this body of a
couple statements. One was made by
Attorney Emmet Flood talking about
what took place with the President of
the United States, and he said this:
We would all do well to remember, if it can
happen—talking about the FISA issue—if it
can happen to a President, imagine what
they can do to you and I. Imagine what they
can do to you and I. We need reform in this
program.
Second, CHUCK SCHUMER. When the
leader in this Congress, leader in the
Senate was on the Rachel Maddow
Show on January 3 talking about what
took place with the President——
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chair, I yield an
additional 15 seconds to the gentleman
from Ohio.
Mr. JORDAN. Madam Chair, Mr.
SCHUMER said this, about the Presi-
dent. He said: ‘‘Let me tell you: You
take on the intelligence community—
they have six ways from Sunday at get-
ting back at you.’’
That is not how it is supposed to
work in this country. That is not how
it is supposed to work. The unelected
people answer to the elected indi-
vidual. This is about reforming this
program, making sure it respects our
fundamental liberties. I respect the
gentleman for bringing the amendment
forward.
Mr. AMASH. Madam Chairwoman,
when I go back to my district, I hear
from my constituents and they always
ask: What is wrong with Washington?
We can see what is wrong with Wash-
ington right here. We have Republicans
for months saying: We are worried
about FISA abuse. FISA is out of con-
trol.
Here we are trying to limit FISA,
and they are running against it. They
are saying: No, we can’t limit FISA.
Democrats say: We want to hold the
President in check. Executive powers
are out of control.
We have an amendment to hold the
President in check. This is our time to
stand up for the American people.
I am sick of going home and telling
them that neither side wanted to de-
fend their rights. I want to thank Ms.
LOFGREN for joining me in this amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield the remainder of my time to the
gentleman from California (Mr. CAL-
VERT), the ranking member of the com-
mittee.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, may I
ask the Chair how much time is re-
maining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Indiana has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chairwoman,
section 702 authorizes the intelligence
community to target the communica-
tions of non-U.S. persons located out-
side the United States for foreign intel-
ligence purposes.
This FISA section 702 program is an
important tool for the intelligence
community to gather foreign intel-
ligence information to protect the
homeland against international ter-
rorism, weapons proliferation, hostile
actions, cyber actors, and other threats
to the national security.
Importantly, its focus is on for-
eigners located abroad. It does not
allow the intelligence community to
target U.S. persons. Section 702 collec-
tions already include significant pro-
tection for civil liberties and privacy.
While the amendment may be well-
intentioned, I fear it will upset the
delicate balance reflected in current
wording of this provision. The recent
comprehensive review and bipartisan
reauthorization of section 702 by Con-
gress would strongly suggest that addi-
tional changes to the program without
a full review of the potential impact is
ill-advised.
Madam Chairwoman, intelligence of-
ficials from the Obama administration
and the Trump administration have as-
serted, as FBI Director Christopher
Wray recently reiterated, that section
702 is one of the most viable tools we
have in our toolbox to keep America
safe. Accordingly, I oppose this amend-
ment.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I am
opposed to the amendment, and yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Chair, I rise in opposi-
tion to the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan and the gentlelady from
California.
Bipartisan majorities of the House and Sen-
ate have recognized the national security im-
portance of the section 702 program, that it
can help protect our country and respect the
privacy of our citizens, and that these goals
need not be in conflict. This near consensus
was founded in part on recognition of the 702
program’s close and regular examination by
the DNI and DOJ, by the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court, by The Privacy and Civil
Liberties Oversight Board, by inspectors gen-
eral—and of course, by the judiciary and intel-
ligence committees in the House and Senate.
Even against this background, I have long
supported privacy and transparency reforms
that preserve the undoubted value of the sec-
tion 702 program to U.S. National security. For
that reason, I joined in strongly backing the bi-
partisan compromise legislation, which im-
posed new privacy safeguards while reauthor-
izing section 702 activities. And I do strongly
believe that, as Members of Congress
charged with upholding the Constitution, we
should be actively and always looking for
ways to shore up section 702’s already rig-
orous regime for protecting the rights of U.S.
persons—in a fashion that still permits the IC
to accomplish its mission.
And that is where I think the amendment
goes too far, and needlessly risks doing seri-
ous harm to what is perhaps our government’s
most valuable mechanism for obtaining the
communications of foreigners overseas.
With its addition of new, unnecessary and
confusing legal requirements, the amendment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.032 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4720 June 18, 2019
would risk the section 702 program’s tem-
porary cessation, while the IC takes steps to
understand and comply with the amendment’s
mandates.
Moreover, as written the amendment strong-
ly suggests that the IC immediately would
have to stop collecting the communications of
a suspected terrorist abroad, simply because
the suspected terrorist was communicating
with an individual thought to be within in the
United States. The IC should not be required
to cease collection of intelligence in situations
where it is entirely appropriate to collect it, and
where we most badly need to IC to do so—
such as the Najibullah Zazi case, where the IC
detected and foiled what would have been a
deadly terrorist plot to detonate explosives on
subway lines in Manhattan.
The amendment would also deny funds for
so-called ‘‘abouts’’ collection, which the IC on
its own decided to discontinue in 2017—and
thus go well beyond the compromise carefully
crafted by Congress the following year. Under
existing law such collection might resume one
day, provided the IC first convinces the courts
and congress that such collection can be con-
ducted in a manner that fully safeguards pri-
vacy rights. The IC should not be banned from
collecting intelligence in a fashion that protects
privacy, if it can devise an appropriate means
of doing so. And yet that is precisely what the
amendment would take off the table, in ad-
vance.
I see no reason to disturb the balance that
we struck in 2018, after such extensive and
rigorous deliberation. And I see many, strong
reasons to leave in place this critically nec-
essary intelligence gathering tool, on which
our intelligence professionals rely every day.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. AMASH).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Michigan will be
postponed.
b 1600
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair under-
stands that amendment No. 25 will not
be offered.
AMENDMENT NO. 29 OFFERED BY MRS. DINGELL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 29 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 248, line 19, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $20,000,000)’’.
Page 249, line 1, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $20,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, our servicemen and
-women suffer from arthritis at
disproportionally high rates compared
to the civilian population. Arthritis is
the leading cause of disability among
our veterans and the second leading
cause of medical discharge among
members of the Army. However, there
is currently no dedicated funding for
researching arthritis among our serv-
icemembers and veterans.
This bipartisan amendment, which
my friend from West Virginia, Con-
gressman MCKINLEY, and I have worked
on as co-chairs of the Congressional
Arthritis Caucus, would provide dedi-
cated funding for arthritis research in
the military.
Establishing this line of funding
within the CDMRP will help improve
our understanding of arthritis in the
military. While some CDMRP money is
already used to research arthritis, this
funding can fluctuate from year to
year and is not specified in statute.
Our researchers need stable, consistent
funding in order to complete the long-
term studies needed to better under-
stand this disease.
I am proud that our amendment is
supported by over 20 veterans service
organizations.
I thank Chairman VISCLOSKY for his
consideration of this proposal and for
his commitment to continue working
with us on future appropriations bills
to include arthritis research. With this
commitment, we are prepared to with-
draw the amendment.
Madam Chair, I withdraw my amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment
is withdrawn.
AMENDMENT NO. 33 OFFERED BY MS. KUSTER OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 33 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Chair, I have an amendment at
the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 241, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,333,000)’’.
Page 245, line 20, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,333,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from New Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Hampshire.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I thank Mr. VISCLOSKY
and his staff for their tireless dedica-
tion to putting together such a com-
prehensive Defense appropriations bill.
The work the gentleman’s committee
does to ensure our Armed Forces has
the funding it needs keeps America
safe. I am grateful for his dedication to
this important task.
I am pleased to offer my amendment
that would increase funding for life
support systems on Ohio-class sub-
marines. This program is important for
ensuring the Ohio class reaches its 42-
year service life extension.
Submarines are a critical component
of our Nation’s nuclear triad, which en-
sures the United States has a constant
deterrent against nuclear strikes from
nations that would do us harm. To
keep this triad strong, we must ensure
that the Ohio-class submarines remain
in operation until the Columbia class
can take their place.
Putting modern, low-pressure life
support systems on our submarines is
an essential part of ensuring the lon-
gevity of this program.
I understand the chairman’s concerns
about the Navy’s implementation of
submarine life support systems. When
Congress appropriates money, it must
be spent efficiently and promptly. I be-
lieve this program should be funded at
the historic level of $11,968,000.
Madam Chair, I will offer to with-
draw my amendment and work with
the chairman to ensure the Navy effec-
tively manages this program and that
Congress provides robust support for it
in future years.
I am asking the chairman if we will
work together on this important issue
moving forward.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Will the gentle-
woman yield?
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. I
yield to the gentleman from Indiana.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, just
to address the issue for a moment, I
really appreciate the gentlewoman for
bringing this to all Members’ atten-
tion. She is absolutely correct that
this is a very important program.
I will point out that I think the most
important point she made is that the
Navy and the government have to be
very efficient in the expenditure of
these funds. It is an important pro-
gram, but I would point out that the
Navy has awarded contracts late for
the last few years, causing the program
to remain perpetually behind.
Again, though, I understand that
what the gentlewoman and the com-
mittee want is to let us get this back
on track and make sure it is properly
funded. I absolutely would be happy to
work with the gentlewoman on this.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Chairman, I thank the chair-
man, and I withdraw my amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment
is withdrawn.
AMENDMENT NO. 34 OFFERED BY MS. KUSTER OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 34 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Chair, I have an amendment at
the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.030 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4721
June 18, 2019
Page 247, line 17, insert ‘‘(increased by
$5,000,0000) (reduced by $5,000,000)’’ after the
dollar amount.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from New Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Hampshire.
MODIFICATION TO AMENDMENT NO. 34 OFFERED
BY MS. KUSTER OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Chair, my amendment inad-
vertently contains a numerical draft-
ing error that would increase spending.
Therefore, I ask unanimous consent
that my amendment be modified with
the form that I have placed at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will re-
port the modification.
The Clerk read as follows:
The amendment is modified to read as fol-
lows:
Page 247, line 17, insert ‘‘(increased by
$5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)’’ after the
dollar amount.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentlewoman
from New Hampshire?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment
is modified.
The gentlewoman is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I am pleased to offer
my amendment that addresses an im-
portant supply chain issue related to
defense electronics.
Driven by environmental regulations
outside the United States, the world-
wide $1 trillion commercial electronics
industry converted to lead-free compo-
nents over 15 years ago. Despite this
global transition, the United States
aerospace and defense electronics in-
dustry continues to rely upon lead-
based assembly technology because
lead-based assembly is considered
structurally superior.
To ensure the reliability and per-
formance of lead-free technology for
defense and aerospace electronics, ad-
ditional research and development are
needed. Because the DOD electronics
market is just a small fraction of the
broader electronics market, commer-
cial industry needs Federal leadership
in this area.
As technological advances in civilian
electronics continue to incorporate
lead-free technology, this problem will
only become more acute. As a result,
the DOD cannot rapidly integrate
state-of-the-art lead-free components,
including semiconductors, for cutting-
edge technologies like hypersonics, ar-
tificial intelligence, and robotics that
impact numerous DOD weapons sys-
tems.
This disconnect between the defense
and commercial electronics industries
can no longer be ignored.
My amendment, which I am offering
with my colleague Representative
BRAD SCHNEIDER, emphasizes the im-
portance of the DOD funding research
to increase the capacity of the defense
industry to produce lead-free elec-
tronics that meet the performance re-
quirements of our Nation’s Armed
Forces. This research will ensure that
American manufacturers can supply
the men and women who keep us safe
with modern, resilient technology that
meets their unique needs.
I look forward to working with the
DOD and the Defense Appropriations
Subcommittee to ensure funding for
the development of this program.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY).
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentlewoman yielding me
time and simply would suggest that
the committee has no opposition to the
amendment.
I would point out that, again, she
struck a chord with me when she
talked about the supply chain problems
we have in the United States of Amer-
ica across the industrial sector.
Again, I appreciate her raising this
and offering the amendment.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment, as modified, offered
by the gentlewoman from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. KUSTER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment, as modi-
fied, offered by the gentlewoman from
New Hampshire will be postponed.
The Chair understands that amend-
ment No. 36 will not be offered.
AMENDMENT NO. 38 OFFERED BY MR. VISCLOSKY
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 38 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, as
the designee of the gentleman from
Texas, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $9,000,000)’’.
Page 246, line 11, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $9,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Indiana.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, this
amendment provides an additional $9
million to address one of the Army’s
top unfunded priorities, future vertical
lift.
The funding would allow the Army to
speed up the acquisition timeline for
the replacement of the Black Hawk
helicopter, which first entered service
in 1979. The additional range and pay-
load that will be available via the
Black Hawk replacement will ensure
that our troops are provided with the
most technologically advanced equip-
ment.
The Army currently enjoys a com-
petitive advantage over our adver-
saries, and investment into future
vertical lift will ensure that we con-
tinue to have that advantage.
Madam Chair, I ask for support of
this amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition, although I sup-
port the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from California is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, the
Army identified a $75.6 million un-
funded requirement for the future
vertical lift program, and this amend-
ment helps to address that by adding
an additional $9 million, as the chair-
man brought out, to this program.
Madam Chair, this is a good program.
I support it, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Indiana will be
postponed.
The Chair understands that amend-
ment No. 39 will not be offered.
AMENDMENT NO. 40 OFFERED BY MR. VISCLOSKY
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 40 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
rise as the designee of the gentleman
from New York (Mr. JEFFRIES) and
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $500,000) (increased by
$500,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Indiana.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chairman,
this amendment deals with additional
funds for reporting on climate change
impacts on our national security.
I would point out that, in 2014, the
Department of Defense issued a cli-
mate change adaptation roadmap that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.034 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4722 June 18, 2019
described the very serious and signifi-
cant ways that climate change threat-
ens the national security of the United
States of America.
b 1615
It found that rising global tempera-
tures, changing precipitation patterns,
climbing sea levels, and more extreme
weather events will intensify the chal-
lenges of global instability, hunger,
poverty, and conflict.
It will likely lead to food and water
shortages, pandemic disease, disputes
over refugees and resources, and de-
struction by natural disasters in re-
gions across the globe.
Earlier this year, the department re-
leased another report that found that
more than two-thirds of the military’s
operationally critical installations are
threatened by climate change.
It noted that the effects of a chang-
ing climate are a national security
issue, with potential impacts to the
Department of Defense’s missions,
operational plans, and installations.
As an example, the Air Force cur-
rently oversees 15 radar sites in Alas-
ka. Since the Cold War, they have mon-
itored the airspace above much of the
Bering Sea and the Arctic. When the
radar sites were selected in the 1950s,
along Alaska’s coastlines and deep in
its interior, melting permafrost and
coastal erosion were not yet long-term
strategic concerns for the department.
However, the melting of permafrost
is happening more rapidly than Pen-
tagon officials predicted, and it is caus-
ing the ground beneath the sites to
crumble. Three radar sites in Alaska
were forced to close in 2007 due in part
to soil erosion.
A 2014 Government Accountability
Office report found that the installa-
tions are seeing erosion that the Pen-
tagon did not expect to occur until
2040.
This amendment ensures that the De-
partment of Defense continues to pro-
vide scientifically based information
about the effects of climate change on
national security.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to the gentleman’s
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, just 5
months ago, the Department of Defense
completed a public assessment titled
‘‘Report on Effects of a Changing Cli-
mate to the Department of Defense.’’
The report accompanying the bill in-
cludes further directive language re-
garding additional reporting require-
ments for the department.
How many reports do we need on this
topic in 1 year? This amendment is ex-
traneous and unnecessary; I urge my
colleagues to oppose it; and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
would simply state that the depart-
ment must be transparent in reporting
the strategic, operational, and finan-
cial costs of climate change.
I would ask support for the amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Indiana will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 41 OFFERED BY MISS
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 41 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Chair, I have an amend-
ment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $4,356,000) (reduced by
$4,356,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from Puerto Rico (Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN) and a Member opposed each will
control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Puerto Rico.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Chair, today I rise to
speak on behalf of the bipartisan
amendment No. 41 to division C of the
Defense appropriations division to H.R.
2740.
My amendment seeks to provide an
increase of $4,356,000 to further support
the Department of Defense’s Innova-
tive Readiness Training program,
bringing its total recommended fund-
ing level for fiscal year 2020 to $30 mil-
lion. This proposed increase is made
possible by reducing the Operation and
Maintenance, Defense-wide account by
the same amount.
The Innovative Readiness Training
program, IRT program, is a Depart-
ment of Defense military training op-
portunity, exclusive to the United
States and its territories, that delivers
joint opportunities to increase deploy-
ment readiness.
Simultaneously, IRT provides key
services with lasting benefits for com-
munities across our Nation, thus
strengthening the bonds between the
American people and the U.S. military.
Each year, this program enhances de-
ployment readiness for approximately
7,000 servicemembers by providing
hands-on, real-world training experi-
ence for mission-essential tasks, often
in remote or underserved areas across
the country.
Military units have an opportunity
to refine their engineering, healthcare,
diving, and transportation skills by
performing services and developing
projects for American communities
that otherwise would not have the re-
sources to conduct them on their own.
In 2018, the services led 39 missions
across the United States. My constitu-
ents in Puerto Rico are among those
who have greatly benefited from this
program.
A year after Hurricane Maria dev-
astated our island, 200 servicemembers
participated in two of these missions to
provide no-cost medical and construc-
tion services to local residents.
Through the Ola de Esperanza
Sanadora mission, they assisted local
authorities in providing medical, den-
tal, and optometry care to over 3,800
patients. Similarly, they partnered
with Habitat for Humanity to build a
three-family home designed to resist
hurricanes in the Quintana neighbor-
hood of San Juan.
Earlier this year, the 1st Mission
Support Command and the U.S. Army
Reserve Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico
soldiers joined more than 500 members
from different DOD components in a
mission on the island that provided
medical service to over 9,000 patients,
delivered over 2,000 eyeglasses, and
completed over 10,000 medical proce-
dures.
Participating units, therefore, in-
creased their readiness and obtained
valuable, hands-on training experience
while helping thousands of their fellow
American citizens in Puerto Rico re-
ceive the care they need.
Other communities across the Nation
have also benefited greatly from this
program. In Alaska, as an example, the
program supports missions like Oper-
ation Arctic Care, which provided rov-
ing medical and dental care to rural
and Alaska Native villages.
In the Northern Mariana Islands—
and I want to thank Congressman
SABLAN for being an original cosponsor
of this amendment—these missions
have helped renovate and improve the
Tinian Health Clinic.
In Mississippi, this mission has
partnered with a local foundation in a
multi-year mission to build a special-
needs camp.
Given how these missions have been
vital in improving our servicemembers’
readiness while simultaneously offer-
ing quality services to thousands of
Americans, I strongly believe Congress
should provide as much support as pos-
sible for the program. This amendment
seeks to do that.
I commend Chairman VISCLOSKY,
Ranking Member CALVERT, and the
House Appropriations Committee for
including a $10 million increase above
the President’s budget request, and my
amendment simply seeks to complete
this effort by providing an additional
increase to bring the program total
budget to $30 million, consistent with
the recommended funding level in the
Senate version for the fiscal year 2020.
Madam Chair, I want to conclude by
thanking my colleague Congressman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.045 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4723
June 18, 2019
SABLAN from the Northern Mariana Is-
lands for cosponsoring my amendment.
I urge my colleagues to join this effort,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Puerto Rico (Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 43 OFFERED BY MR. NORMAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 43 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. NORMAN. Madam Chair, I rise
today because I have an amendment at
the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as
follows:
Page 238, line 2, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $7,500,000) (increased by
$7,500,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. NORMAN) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from South Carolina.
Mr. NORMAN. Madam Chair, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
This amendment would establish a
pilot program that would allow an ex-
peditionary sea base, ESB, to be
equipped with weaponry to defend
itself.
This pilot program is needed because,
currently, an ESB must be accom-
panied by a destroyer when on a mis-
sion. To deploy a destroyer, oper-
ational costs add up to $33 million.
If the $7.5 million pilot program—
which is the cost—is passed, then this
expeditionary sea base will be able to
protect itself and a destroyer will no
longer be required to accompany it, al-
lowing the destroyer to complete other
missions.
This pilot program does not mean the
ESB will go out actively using its
weaponry. Rather, the intent of this
program would be to free up the de-
stroyer for other missions without
leaving an ESB defenseless.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition, although I am not op-
posed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from California is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman for this amend-
ment. They make that fine ship in San
Diego, California, and we want to de-
fend it to the hilt, so we appreciate
this amendment.
It makes the bill a better bill, and I
thank the gentleman for bringing that
bill forward.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NORMAN. Madam Chair, I would
just say, this is a return on invest-
ment. This is a good investment that
will save this country a lot of money
with its passage, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. NOR-
MAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 44 OFFERED BY MR. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 44 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of division C (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to issue export li-
censes for the following defense items, in-
cluding defense articles, defense services,
and related technical data, described in the
certification Transmittal Numbers DDTC-17-
079, DDTC-17-094, DDTC 17-112, DDTC-17-126,
DDTC-17-128, DDTC-18-013, DDTC-18-029,
DDTC-18-030, DDTC-18-050, DDTC-18-080,
DDTC-18-103, DDTC-18-109, DDTC-18-110,
DDTC-19-001, 17-0B, 17-BM, 17-CR, 17-CU, 18-
AU, 18-BE, 19-AA and 19-AR.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from California (Mr. TED LIEU) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
On May 24, the Trump administra-
tion notified Congress that it was de-
claring a so-called emergency to by-
pass congressional review of 22 arms
sales to Saudi Arabia and the United
Arab Emirates.
I am offering this amendment be-
cause there is no emergency, just a
conflict in Yemen that has killed thou-
sands of civilians with U.S.-made weap-
ons and a Congress that is tired of
being complicit. That is why we voted
last month to pass bipartisan, bi-
cameral resolutions to end U.S. sup-
port for the Saudi-led coalition in
Yemen.
Despite that clear signal from Con-
gress, the administration decided to
use an emergency power to go around
us and push through an unpopular arms
package that would likely be used in
that conflict.
That package includes an unprece-
dented proposal to move production of
precision-guided munitions to Saudi
Arabia, essentially outsourcing jobs to
the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Simply put, this is an egregious
abuse of the emergency authority we
gave the executive and a direct affront
to our institution.
To add insult to injury, the arms in
question aren’t even available to be ex-
ported. As Assistant Secretary of State
for Political-Military Affairs Clarke
Cooper testified last week, most of
these weapons systems will not be
ready for months, if not potentially
years.
Our arm sales process was designed
to include congressional review specifi-
cally to ensure that each case serves
U.S. interests.
If the administration believes that
these sales can stand on the merits,
they should make their case to Con-
gress. Until they do, we must use the
power of the purse and every other ave-
nue to block them.
I also want to thank Chairman VIS-
CLOSKY for his leadership and support
as well. I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this amendment, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, at the
outset, it should be clear: There is no
country that is more hostile to the in-
terests of the United States and our al-
lies, especially Israel, than Iran.
In fact, as we debate this bill, the
U.S. and our partners in the region are
under serious threat from Iran and its
proxies.
As our commander of the U.S. Cen-
tral Command, General Frank
McKenzie, said recently, the Iranian
threat remains imminent.
Just last week, Iranian Revolu-
tionary Guard forces used a type of
magnetic mine—a limpet mine—to at-
tack Japanese and Norwegian oil tank-
ers in the Gulf of Oman.
b 1630
In addition to this threat to inter-
national freedom of navigation and
commerce, Iran’s Houthi proxies have
launched sustained attacks on airports
and other infrastructure targets within
Saudi Arabia.
In this context, it is clearly in the
national interest of the United States
to ensure that our partners in the re-
gion have the capabilities they need to
counter a hostile Iran.
The sweeping scope of this amend-
ment, however, seeks to block all 22 of
these arms sales instead of those few
that may be of particular concern. For
example, it would attempt to prevent
the transfer of precision-guided muni-
tions to our ally Jordan, as well as a
number of other seemingly non-
controversial cases.
Madam Chair, we need to work with
our partners in the region to accom-
plish common objectives on counter-
terrorism and in deterring Iran, includ-
ing through timely U.S. defense trans-
fers.
Arbitrarily stopping a large number
of arms sales, regardless of their sensi-
tivity, will hinder the ability of our
combatant commander to accomplish
these goals. It will also undermine the
reputation of the United States as a re-
liable security partner and provide op-
portunities to China or Russia to erode
U.S. influence in the region.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.048 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4724 June 18, 2019
I want to acknowledge that all of us
are deeply concerned with the ongoing
humanitarian crisis in Yemen. I sup-
port the efforts of the executive branch
to work with the U.N. Special Envoy
toward a political resolution of this
conflict.
It is also unfortunate that the De-
partment of State decided to utilize an
emergency waiver authority on the
arms sales that are the subject of this
amendment. Congressional oversight
over arms transfers is an important re-
sponsibility, and it would have been
best had these sensitive matters been
handled through the traditional con-
sultative process.
This is not the appropriate vehicle to
vindicate those congressional preroga-
tives. That responsibility rests with
the Foreign Affairs and Foreign Rela-
tions Committees, and not in this bill.
Madam Chair, accordingly, I oppose
this amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam
Chair, I appreciate the comments of
the gentleman from California.
I simply note that the issue here is
not whether we should sell arms to our
allies, such as Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates. The issue is
whether Congress should have a role or
we are going to be completely bypassed
by this administration.
That is all this amendment seeks to
do, to have Congress take a role in the
way we have always taken a role in
arms sales.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY).
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentleman for yielding,
and I appreciate the gentleman for of-
fering the amendment.
The operative word here is ‘‘bypass.’’
The administration has used an ob-
scure, rarely used provision to skirt
congressional review of arms sales with
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates.
The administration’s lack of jus-
tification for using this emergency au-
thority with respect to these sales is
troubling, especially when you consider
much of the equipment contained in
these cases would not be delivered for
months, as the gentleman from Cali-
fornia rightfully pointed out.
Congress is a coequal branch of gov-
ernment and has oversight responsibil-
ities to review such cases before we sell
major weapons systems to other coun-
tries. These review requirements are on
the books for a reason, and this amend-
ment helps to ensure that the law is
adhered to and that Congress is re-
spected and can meet its constitutional
requirement.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam
Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL).
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I com-
pliment my colleague from California.
This is something that is very serious,
and obviously, we have been talking
about it for a long time now.
We are a coequal branch of govern-
ment. We want the executive branch,
no matter who is in the executive
branch, to respect the fact that we are.
That is clear to the people in this
House. We have voted that way, and we
have talked that way. We believe that
what the administration did by calling
these weapons ‘‘emergency’’ was not
the right thing to do. It is clearly not
an emergency. It is clearly a way of
skirting around Congress. It is clearly
a way of trying to not work with Con-
gress.
I think that it is time that the Con-
gress takes back important things,
such as declaring war, such as sending
these things to our allies.
I feel very, very strongly, and I think
that my colleagues will, too, that Mr.
LIEU should be supported in this.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, we
need to stand by our allies and oppose
Iran. This amendment is not helpful. I
encourage all of our colleagues to vote
‘‘no’’ on this amendment.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. TED LIEU).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from California will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 45 OFFERED BY MR. GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 45 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $96,000,000)’’.
Page 246, line 11, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $20,000,000)’’.
Page 247, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $76,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. GALLAGHER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Wisconsin.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Last December, in lockstep with our
NATO allies, the U.S. determined that
Russia is in material breach of the In-
termediate-Range Nuclear Forces, or
INF, Treaty. This followed determina-
tions by the State Department in 2014,
2015, 2016, and 2017 that Russia has
failed to comply with its INF obliga-
tions.
As one of only two parties in the
agreement, and the only party cur-
rently playing by the rules, the U.S. is
subject to severe restrictions on our
military capabilities faced by no other
nation on Earth. This problem is espe-
cially acute in Asia, where the U.S.
must project power across vast dis-
tances and with enormous logistics
chains.
While the original treaty was about
intermediate-range nuclear weapons,
China has seized upon the potential of
conventional missiles of intermediate
ranges, which are likewise banned
under the INF. The Chinese military
has invested in thousands of conven-
tional ground-based missiles, roughly
95 percent of which would be prohibited
by the treaty if Beijing were a signa-
tory.
This arsenal puts us on the wrong
side of the cost competition. As you
can see from this chart from the non-
partisan Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments, the U.S. mili-
tary is dangerously outranged at inter-
mediate distances.
No matter how capable or affordable,
our ships, fighters, and bombers will
never be cheaper than ground-based
missiles. This is a recipe for disaster,
both in war and in peacetime competi-
tion.
Two years ago, to remedy this, Con-
gress began R&D funding for ground-
based conventional intermediate mis-
siles. Now that the United States is
months away from a post-INF world,
Congress is threatening to undo this
process by zeroing out R&D for these
purely conventional missile systems.
To be clear, early-stage R&D on in-
termediate missiles is allowable under
the treaty. It is why we have been
doing it over the past 2 years.
The cuts contained in this bill al-
ready go beyond what is mandated by
the agreement. It would not only keep
us unilaterally tied to a treaty that no
one else is honoring, but it would also
expand the scope of our commitment
by blocking R&D funding.
Madam Chair, this is insanity. No
other conventional weapons system
would ever be held to this standard. We
wouldn’t do it for planes. We wouldn’t
do it for ships. We wouldn’t do it for
tanks. Yet, we are doing it for missiles
that would provide credible, dispersed,
and lethal firepower.
I understand that my colleagues,
some on both sides of the aisle, have
concerns on nuclear weapons. I under-
stand. I appreciate that. I would wel-
come a conversation with any of my
colleagues about prohibiting R&D dol-
lars from going toward intermediate-
range nuclear missiles.
But despite the INF name, this
amendment has nothing to do with nu-
clear weapons. This is all about con-
ventional deterrence.
Go talk to the men and women who
are downrange in the Indo-Pacific
Command who are, on a daily basis,
dealing with the real-world ramifica-
tions of an increasingly unfavorable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.053 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4725
June 18, 2019
conventional military balance. They
will tell Members, and, indeed, they
have told us on the Armed Services
Committee, that deploying inter-
mediate-range conventional missiles in
Asia would help increase our deter-
rence and, therefore, improve our abil-
ity to avoid war, which is what it is all
about.
Madam Chair, I cannot be clear
enough. By zeroing out R&D funding
for intermediate-range conventional
missiles, this bill undermines our abil-
ity to credibly deter aggression. What-
ever we think about nuclear weapons,
these cuts make them more important
to American defense planning, not less,
by reducing our options to restore
growing imbalances in conventional
power.
This is a mistake that I fear will cost
the United States in more ways than
one. I urge my colleagues to support
my amendment, which would restore
funding for R&D for intermediate-
range conventional missiles and pro-
vide the Department with the flexi-
bility it needs to pursue this critical
capability.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
rise in opposition to the gentleman’s
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY) is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, the
Russians are cheating on the INF Trea-
ty. That does not mean we should com-
pound the first problem by creating a
second problem. Don’t make a bad situ-
ation worse.
Our energy and focus should remain
on diplomacy and multilateral efforts
to bring Russia back into compliance
with the INF Treaty.
The INF Treaty, which was signed by
President Reagan in 1987, established
an agreement between the United
States, Russia, and a number of other
countries to not field ground-launched
cruise and ballistic missiles with
ranges between 500 and 5,500 kilo-
meters. This treaty was instrumental
in arresting the arms race, defusing
tensions, and ultimately, bringing an
end to the Cold War.
I find it very concerning that, due to
the President’s suspension of compli-
ance in February, the INF Treaty will
be officially null and void on August 2.
This was all done without exhausting
all diplomatic efforts and with limited
congressional input.
The conditions established in the
treaty are crucial to European secu-
rity.
I find it disingenuous that the state-
ment of administration policy on this
bill implies NATO endorses the U.S. de-
veloping an intermediate-range cruise
missile capability. The Brussels sum-
mit declaration by NATO heads of
state and government in July 2018 stat-
ed that the INF Treaty has been cru-
cial to Euro-Atlantic security and that
we remain fully committed to the pres-
ervation of this landmark arms control
treaty.
The December 2018 statement by the
NATO Foreign Ministers reinforced
this by stating that the treaty had
been crucial in upholding NATO’s secu-
rity for over 30 years.
The February 2019 statement by the
North Atlantic Council continued to
call on Russia to return to compliance
with the treaty. It did not endorse the
development of INF-violating weapons
by the U.S. or any other member of the
alliance.
NATO’s official position on the trea-
ty remains that NATO’s focus is to pre-
serve the INF treaty.
There is no question Russia has not
upheld its promises as a signatory to
the treaty. However, I believe the irre-
sponsible actions of the Russian Gov-
ernment do not require the U.S. to
jump headlong into a costly and unnec-
essary arms race that will promote
greater instability, which hearkens
back to the policies and actions that
defined the most perilous phases of the
Cold War.
This amendment would negate pre-
vious U.S. nonproliferation and arms
control efforts. It is neither prudent
nor wise.
Madam Chairman, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, I
want to quickly say that a treaty that
no one else is abiding by is merely a
suicide pact with ourselves.
Secondly, even if you disagree with
my assessment of the INF, this limits
our ability to conduct R&D, which isn’t
prohibited by the treaty.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from California (Mr. CAL-
VERT).
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Wisconsin has 45 seconds remain-
ing.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I will
be very quick.
I am shocked: The Russians are
cheating.
Now that our treaty obligations are
suspended, the United States needs to
move forward with developing ground-
launched INF missile capability.
Madam Chair, I support the gentle-
man’s amendment.
b 1645
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman for his comments,
and I thank my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle for this spirited de-
bate.
I just would ask that we consider
what we want the world to look like in
a post-INF environment, because that
is where we are headed, and we have
multiple options we need to pursue. We
are limiting ourselves. We are taking a
step backward if we do not approve this
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I believe that it is nec-
essary to maintain a credible and effec-
tive nuclear deterrence.
I also strongly believe that multilat-
eral diplomatic efforts, including the
INF Treaty and other international
agreements, that encourage all coun-
tries to restrain potentially bad behav-
ior are key elements of U.S. national
security.
Beyond this particular amendment,
it is my hope that the administration
will reconsider its efforts to unilater-
ally abrogate from our national respon-
sibility to uphold the INF Treaty, and
instead, to work with Congress and our
allies abroad to address and rectify
long-standing arms control concerns
with Russia and other global actors.
I will continue to be a strong advo-
cate for diplomacy and remain a will-
ing and available partner to the admin-
istration and our colleagues in regard
to this treaty and other important
issues.
Madam Chair, I do oppose the gentle-
man’s amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Wisconsin (Mr. GALLA-
GHER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Wisconsin will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 47 OFFERED BY MR. GALLAGHER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 47 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, I
rise as the designee of the gentle-
woman from Wyoming (Ms. CHENEY),
and I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $19,600,000)’’.
Page 238, line 2, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $19,600,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. GALLAGHER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Wisconsin.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, it
is my privilege to offer my colleague,
Ms. CHENEY’s, amendment to restore
badly needed funding for Trident II
Modifications relating to low-yield
submarine-launched ballistic missile
warheads.
This amendment seeks to address an
urgent operational requirement. Russia
has a nuclear doctrine known as esca-
late to deescalate. This doctrine em-
phasizes using low-yield nuclear weap-
ons against U.S. and allied forces on
the battlefield.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.055 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4726 June 18, 2019
As the logic behind this doctrine
goes, destroying large portions of
NATO forces with low-yield nuclear
weapons would leave allied decision-
makers with an unenviable decision be-
tween accepting Russian conquest and
the effective end of NATO, or launch-
ing strategic nuclear weapons and ush-
ering in a nuclear holocaust.
In other words, they put the onus of
escalation and all of the attendant
international opprobrium on us.
I don’t know about you, but that does
not sound like a good choice to me.
The Nuclear Posture Review is actu-
ally clear on this subject: ‘‘Expanding
flexible U.S. nuclear options now, to
include low-yield options, is important
for the preservation of credible deter-
rence against regional aggression . . .
will raise the nuclear threshold and
help ensure that potential adversaries
perceive no possible advantage in lim-
ited nuclear escalation, making nu-
clear weapons employment less like-
ly.’’
Critics may argue that we have al-
ready had low-yield weapons in our ar-
senal and we do not need a submarine-
launched variant. They also argue
against displacing strategic weapons
with low-yield options in limited mis-
sile SSBN missile tubes.
But as the Nuclear Posture Review
finds, sea-launched low-yield weapons
provide tangible advantages compared
to dual-capable aircraft.
I quote again: ‘‘A low-yield SLBM
warhead and SLCM will not require or
rely on host nation support to provide
deterrent effect. They will provide ad-
ditional diversity in platforms, range,
and survivability, and a valuable hedge
against future nuclear ‘break out’ sce-
narios.’’
I just would emphasize, to close, the
findings from the Nuclear Posture Re-
view are not partisan. This amendment
is actually advancing a bipartisan posi-
tion.
Former Obama Secretary of Defense
Ash Carter has gone on record saying:
‘‘My views are reflected in the latest
Nuclear Posture Review.’’
Jim Miller, Under Secretary of De-
fense for Policy during the Obama ad-
ministration, has argued that ‘‘Sec-
retary of Defense Jim Mattis’ 2018 Nu-
clear Posture Review offers continuity
with past U.S. policy and plans, includ-
ing those in the 2010 NPR. It deserves
broad bipartisan support. Its proposal
for a low-yield SLBM weapon and a
new nuclear-tipped sea-launched cruise
missile are sensible responses to
changed security conditions, especially
Russia and North Korea.’’
We have heard time and again from
this body, rightly, that we need to push
back on Russian aggression. On this,
we are unified as a body. This is a tan-
gible step to do so.
As General Hyten, head of U.S. Stra-
tegic Command, has argued, this capa-
bility is: ‘‘ . . . necessary to our stra-
tegic deterrence mission and will serve
to disabuse any adversary of the mis-
taken perception they can escalate
their way to victory.’’
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment on a bipar-
tisan basis, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Indiana is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I,
again, strongly oppose the gentleman’s
amendment. This amendment would
provide funding for the deployment of
the ill-conceived low-yield nuclear war-
head on Ohio-class ballistic missile
submarines.
I believe that deploying this warhead
would amplify the risk of a devastating
nuclear conflict with Russia by reduc-
ing the threshold of nuclear use and in-
creasing the risk of miscalculation.
Deploying the W76–2 warhead on bal-
listic missile submarines carries espe-
cially great risk.
I would ask the Members of this body
to consider, if we deploy a low-yield
warhead aboard our nuclear sub-
marines, would Russia regard such
weapons as less of a threat than our ex-
isting submarine-launched nuclear
missiles?
If we were to use such a weapon, even
in response to a Russian first use of
low-yield weapons, would Russia be
likely to act with restraint, or would
Russian leaders instead assume that we
have initiated a strategic nuclear at-
tack, and respond in kind?
Do we really believe that any nuclear
exchange can avoid escalation by using
low-yield weapons?
The significant danger of miscalcula-
tion is greater than any marginal ben-
efit we might gain from having another
low-yield capability in our nuclear ar-
senal.
I would point out that suggesting
that barring the deployment of this is
akin to unilateral disarmament is sim-
ply not true.
This bill includes robust funding for
maintaining and modernizing our nu-
clear arsenal. The bill includes more
than $712 million for the development
of the Long-Range Standoff Weapon. It
provides $1.6 billion for the Columbia-
class Submarine and over $3 billion for
the continued development of the B–21
bomber.
This bill does cut excessive, unproven
nuclear programs that generate signifi-
cant risks without appreciably enhanc-
ing our security or that of our allies,
but those looking for unilateral disar-
mament in this bill will not find it.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. CALVERT).
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, do you
trust the Russians? I don’t trust the
Russians.
Those who think they are making
the world safer by refusing to support
the programs should remember the an-
cient Latin adage, ‘‘If you want peace,
prepare for war.’’
That has never been more applicable
than in regard to this program.
Madam Chair, this amendment is
vital to maintaining deterrence and
peace. I would urge my colleagues to
support it.
I might point out that the Russians
are under the perception that this is a
strategic imperative from their per-
spective. So from my perspective, let’s
remove that misconception and vote in
favor of this amendment.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman from California
(Mr. CALVERT) for his strong words in
support.
Madam Chair, I urge all my col-
leagues to join us in standing up
against Russian aggression.
In order to implement the National
Defense Strategy, we have to find a
way to move to conventional deter-
rence by denial as opposed to putting
all of our eggs in the basket of stra-
tegic deterrence by punishment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, in
closing, I wish to emphasize that we
should not use the most survivable leg
of our triad as a tactical warfighting
platform.
It is imperative for the House to reaf-
firm Ronald Reagan’s clear-eyed admo-
nition that a nuclear war cannot be
won and must never be fought.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to reject this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Wisconsin (Mr. GALLA-
GHER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Wisconsin will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 50 OFFERED BY MS. BLUNT
ROCHESTER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 50 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,000,000)’’.
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,000,000).’’
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from Delaware (Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Delaware.
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Madam
Chair, I rise today in support of my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.059 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4727
June 18, 2019
amendment to the division C Defense
appropriations of H.R. 2740.
I applaud my colleagues for including
expanded authorities in the fiscal year
2019 National Defense Authorization
Act that would allow the Defense De-
partment’s Space-Available Flights
program to benefit veterans with 100
percent service-connected disability.
As you may know, the Space-A pro-
gram offers free military air travel to
eligible participants if there is avail-
able space on a flight heading to a des-
tination within the continental United
States.
Prior to the fiscal year 2019 NDAA,
the Space-A program provided Active
Duty, reservists, retirees, and certain
family members with this benefit.
Space-A is an example of programs
operated by the military that can and
do work for the American people.
Expanding the benefit to include 100
percent disabled veterans was common
sense, and will help those veterans
visit their family, old friends from the
service, and even seek services for med-
ical and mental health treatment with
the best possible healthcare providers.
For 100 percent disabled veterans in
Delaware, the expansion of Space-A of-
fered an especially convenient travel
alternative due to the Dover Air Force
Base’s central location within the
State.
Many such communities across the
country are similarly improved thanks
to this program.
While the effort to expand access to
this program to some of our Nation’s
veterans was well-intentioned, I have
heard from some veterans that there
may have been an unintended con-
sequence.
The new authorities do not allow
caregivers or spouses to travel with eli-
gible veterans as part of the program.
For many veterans that are rated as
100 percent disabled, the inability to
have their caregiver or spouse join
them on the flight effectively disquali-
fies them from utilizing this incredible
program.
We must ensure that all eligible vet-
erans have equal and fair access to the
benefits they have earned.
President Lincoln made it clear that
it is our country’s duty to care and as-
sist those that had borne the battle on
behalf of the country, and it is our
duty as a country to follow through on
that promise.
That is why I request that the De-
partment of Defense provide to Con-
gress an assessment of feasibility or
possible issues in expanding eligible
participants to include spouses and
caregivers when traveling with 100 per-
cent disabled veterans.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support my amendment, and I look
forward to working with my colleagues
on improving this benefit afforded to
these veterans.
b 1700
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Will the gentle-
woman yield?
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. I yield to
the gentleman from Indiana.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
I commend the gentlewoman for her
work with the committee to make all
of us aware of the lack of support that
our veterans are facing on the space-
available flights. I am happy to report
that, because of congressional actions
such as hers and her adamant action on
this behalf, the Department is updating
their air transportation eligibility re-
quirements to expand space-available
privileges in no little reason because of
the gentlewoman’s actions, and I do
support her amendment.
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Delaware (Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Delaware will
be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 51 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 51 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of division C (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. l. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used for continued re-
search on the Long-Range Standoff missile
(LRSO).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I
thank Chairman VISCLOSKY for his
leadership on the Defense appropria-
tions bill, as well as Mr. MCGOVERN,
our Rules Committee chair, for making
this amendment in order.
My amendment deals with one par-
ticular piece of the administration’s
escalation of our nuclear warfighting
capability, and that is the long-range
standoff weapon, or LRSO. This new
nuclear-armed cruise missile does not
add to our country’s already strong
strategic deterrent. Instead, it per-
forms a redundant purpose that can al-
ready be accomplished with the stand-
off capability of other weapons sys-
tems.
The CBO estimates that, over 10
years, canceling the production of this
weapon would save us about $13 billion.
That is $13 billion that could go into
education or infrastructure or
healthcare or housing or even invest-
ments in foreign assistance and diplo-
macy that would actually keep us
safer.
I am deeply concerned, Madam Chair,
that continuing to pour more and more
money into building up our nuclear ar-
senal puts us down a dangerous course.
Just this past weekend, we found our-
selves in yet another escalation of ten-
sions with Iran, with the Secretary of
State saying that the administration is
‘‘considering a full range of options,’’
including military options in response
to the attack on two tankers in the
Gulf of Oman. And just last night,
President Trump announced that he is
sending another 1,000 American troops
to the Middle East.
Meanwhile, let me remind my col-
leagues that this administration has
recklessly torn up former President
Reagan’s Intermediate-Range Nuclear
Forces, or INF, Treaty with Russia,
pulled out of President Obama’s his-
toric nonproliferation accord with
Iran, and escalated inflammatory ten-
sions and rhetoric with some of the
world’s most powerful nuclear-armed
states.
The President’s agenda outlined in
his 2018 nuclear posture review would
also resurrect former nuclear capabili-
ties that bipartisan administrations
have wisely eliminated. According to
many expert observers, some of the up-
grades made to our nuclear program in
the past few years could be interpreted
as plans for a ‘‘first strike.’’
Let me be clear, the Trump adminis-
tration’s plan to develop the LRSO
cruise missile is not only wasteful, but
potentially dangerous. It will make our
country, in my opinion, less safe. The
weapon is expected to be significantly
more capable than the cruising system
it is replacing. It will be likely harder
to detect, have a longer range, fly fast-
er, and be more accurate. The weapon
will also be deployed on advancing pen-
etrating bombers, which are less de-
tectable and designed to infiltrate
enemy air defenses.
In contrast, the system that the
LRSO is replacing is only carried by
the B–52, which flies relatively slowly
and is easily spotted by radar. As a re-
sult, the new cruise missile and bomber
could allow attacks on an array of tar-
gets without being detected first, and
that could lead to devastating mis-
calculation and, potentially, to acci-
dental nuclear war.
Madam Chair, don’t just take may
word for it. Let me tell you that
former Secretary of Defense Jim
Mattis stated that he is not sold on the
LRSO. Why are we appropriating
money to something that the former
Secretary of Defense for the Repub-
lican administration is not sold on?
In a Washington Post op-ed in 2015,
William Perry, Secretary of Defense
from 1994 to 1997, and Andy Weber, As-
sistant Secretary of Defense for Nu-
clear, Chemical, and Biological Defense
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.062 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4728 June 18, 2019
Programs from 2009 to 2014, wrote
about the LRSO: ‘‘Some have argued
that a new nuclear-capable air-
launched cruise missile is necessary to
allow future Presidents the ‘flexibility’
to engage Russia or China in limited
nuclear war. That is Cold War think-
ing, and it is dangerous. Such ‘tactical’
use of nuclear weapons would be a
grave mistake.’’
Our nuclear weapons arsenal is about
deterrent capabilities, not warfighting.
It is troubling, then, that proponents of
the LRSO, including the Defense De-
partment, have said that the missile is
needed for capabilities ‘‘beyond deter-
rence.’’
The Pentagon argues that the LRSO
could be used to respond ‘‘proportion-
ately to a limited nuclear attack.’’ I
would argue that this is dangerous
Cold War thinking and that there is no
such thing as a limited nuclear war.
My amendment is specifically fo-
cused on halting development of the
LRSO, which wouldn’t be deployed
until the early 2030s, but we also have
to look at this weapon and the message
that it is sending as part of this admin-
istration’s dangerous escalation of our
nuclear posture. This President has
joked about his nuclear button being
‘‘bigger and more powerful’’ than Kim
Jong-un’s. This is terrifying, unaccept-
able, and it is our duty to exert con-
gressional oversight on this issue.
By canceling this weapon, we can
send a signal that there is no such
thing as limited nuclear annihilation,
and instead of promoting weapons that
enable nuclear warfighting, we can af-
firm that a nuclear war can never be
won.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, this
amendment would prohibit the use of
2020 funds for development of a long-
range standoff weapon program.
A long-range standoff missile will be
a nuclear-armed air-launched cruise
missile that the U.S. Air Force is
scheduled to first deploy in the early
2030s.
The LRSO is necessary for maintain-
ing the deterrent capability currently
provided by a rapidly aging air-
launched cruise missile. According to
the Department of Defense, the current
air-launched cruise missile is already
decades beyond its originally planned
service time.
As General John Hayden, Com-
mander of the U.S. Strategic Com-
mand, has stated: ‘‘The ALCM is en-
countering sustainability and viability
issues from age-related material fail-
ures . . . and diminishing manufac-
turing sources. Parts and materials de-
signed for a 10-year service life are now
35 years old and are obsolete.’’
In addition to severe problems with
maintenance and reliability, the ALCM
has a significant degraded ability to
survive modern air defense systems. We
also need the long-range standoff weap-
on because conventional air-launched
cruise missiles are unable to effec-
tively meet the same deterrence re-
quirements.
Madam Chair, sustaining the nuclear
standoff capability in the air leg of the
U.S. strategic triad strengthens our de-
terrence. Conventional weapons are not
capable of fulfilling the nuclear-armed
cruise missile’s contribution to, and
role in, an effective deterrence and re-
assurance of U.S. allies.
Effective deterrence requires that an
adversary believes that the United
States can and may respond in kind to
a nuclear attack.
For these reasons, I urge the defeat
of this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield such time as he
may consume to my colleague from In-
diana (Mr. VISCLOSKY).
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentleman yielding.
I appreciate the perspective of the
gentlewoman as well, and I would point
out that, during the day today, I have
risen in opposition to two different nu-
clear policy issues that would increase
spending in our bill. I would like to
point out I am opposed, however, to the
gentlewoman’s amendment, and her
bill does take several actions related to
the oversight of the administration’s
multiple, ongoing nuclear weapon ef-
forts.
First, in the bill, we do reduce the
Ground Based Strategic Deterrent pro-
gram by $108.7 million.
Second, the bill denies $19.6 million
requested by the administration to de-
ploy a low-yield nuclear warhead on
submarine-launched ballistic missiles.
Third, it denies nearly $100 million
requested by the administration to de-
velop two new missile systems that
would not be compliant with the INF
Treaty.
Fourth, it requires the Navy to sub-
mit a report on the cost, requirements,
and other matters related to a nuclear
submarine-launched cruise missile,
which is still in the planning stage.
I would emphasize to all of my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle, this
bill does not take a reflexive or ideo-
logical position. This bill is the result
of thorough oversight, and the com-
mittee has striven for a balanced pol-
icy. I simply believe this amendment
goes too far, and I am opposed to it.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Washington will
be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 59 OFFERED BY MR. CROW
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 59 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $13,000,000)’’.
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $13,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Colorado (Mr. CROW) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Colorado.
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise today to offer an amendment
supporting an additional $13 million
appropriation for the Readiness and
Environmental Protection Integration
Program, known as the REPI Program.
Since 2003, REPI has been tasked
with ensuring our military installation
readiness by allowing the Department
of Defense to enter into cost-sharing
partnerships with State and local gov-
ernment to combat encroachment near
military installations while simulta-
neously promoting environmental con-
servation. The underlying bill appro-
priates $87 million for this program,
which is a slight increase over last
year’s enacted amount.
I am thankful to Chairman VIS-
CLOSKY for his recognition of REPI’s
successes, which have established it as
a model for intragovernmental and pri-
vate partnerships, but there is still
more work to be done to ensure that
our military operations are able to pro-
ceed unimpeded and our natural habi-
tats are protected.
Over the past 15 years, the REPI Pro-
gram has protected over half a million
acres in 33 States by working with Fed-
eral, State, and local government enti-
ties, private conservation groups, and
the military services. These partner-
ships not only lead to thoughtful en-
croachment mitigation solutions by ex-
panding the landscape buffer around
our military installations, but also re-
sult in burden sharing across the
stakeholders. Over the life of the pro-
gram, non-DOD REPI partners have
shouldered nearly half of the financial
burden of these projects, proving the
cost-sharing value of the program.
Not too long ago these partnerships
were uncommon; however, the success-
ful partnerships created by the REPI
Program are lasting, beneficial to all
participants, and often foster new ar-
rangements that would not have hap-
pened otherwise. In total, the program
is making a difference for the military
and our installations.
In my district, Buckley Air Force
Base is a prime example of the signifi-
cant win-win impact that the REPI
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.065 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4729
June 18, 2019
Program can have on the installations
and the community. By working with
partners like the Trust for Public Land
and the Colorado Department of Mili-
tary and Veterans Affairs, the City of
Aurora, the REPI Program was able to
preserve nearly 300 acres of land.
The environmental protection and
antiencroachment measures under-
taken at Buckley have protected agri-
cultural and recreational lands while
ensuring that Buckley Air Force Base
has the land required to conduct oper-
ations and even grow to meet addi-
tional needs for decades to come.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support my amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
b 1715
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. CALVERT).
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
I am not in opposition to the gentle-
man’s amendment, I just find it unnec-
essary. There is robust funding in the
bill for this activity to fight encroach-
ment on our military bases, and that is
really kind of between the local gov-
ernment and local State and local
groups.
Madam Chair, I make that point, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Indiana
(Mr. VISCLOSKY).
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentleman yielding again.
I think the gentleman is doing good
work here. The gentleman is correct
that there was an increase of $2 million
from $85 million from last year’s fiscal
year in our bill; however, it was a $12
million increase from the administra-
tion’s request, so I do applaud him for
his work.
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I am pre-
pared to close, and I yield myself the
balance of my time.
Madam Chair, I want to take the op-
portunity to speak about how the REPI
program saves taxpayer dollars, sup-
ports military readiness, and preserves
our environment.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support my amendment for an addi-
tional $13 million that is in line with
the amount authorized in the NDAA
that was marked up last week to en-
sure its valuable work can benefit more
installations and communities.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Colorado (Mr. CROW).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Colorado will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 60 OFFERED BY MR. CROW
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 60 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 248, line 19, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $20,000,000)’’.
Page 249, line 1, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $20,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Colorado (Mr. CROW) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Colorado.
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise today to offer an
amendment to vastly increase funding
for ALS research by $40 million
through the Congressionally Directed
Medical Research Programs at the De-
partment of Defense. This is to build
on the program’s vision to improve
treatment and find a cure for this dis-
ease, which poses far more questions
than answers.
In the United States, 15 people are di-
agnosed with ALS every day, with an
estimated 16,000 Americans living with
this degenerative disease. Commonly
referred to as Lou Gehrig’s disease, the
average survival time after diagnosis is
only 3 years.
Although an estimated 10 percent of
ALS cases are inherited, more than 90
percent are sporadic, and medical re-
search can’t yet determine why. It is
further complicated for veterans, as re-
search suggests that there is a mutu-
ally inclusive relationship between
ALS and military service. In fact, vet-
erans who were deployed during the
Gulf war are twice as likely to develop
ALS.
This disease also hits home for me in
many ways. On March 18, our commu-
nity lost Mike Cimbura to ALS. Mike
was, first and foremost, a loving hus-
band and father, but on top of that, he
fought ALS ferociously to ensure that
ALS will no longer be a hopeless diag-
nosis. He worked to get right-to-try
legislation across the finish line to in-
crease access to experimental treat-
ments that would one day cure this dis-
ease.
In my own family, we lost our dear
cousin, Jeff Van Brunt, to this disease
just last year. Jeff would have just
celebrated his 40th birthday. He left be-
hind his wonderful wife, Jill, and kids,
Megan, William, Sophia, and Mark.
In short, this disease knows no
stranger, impacting communities and
families across the country. This dis-
ease continues to take loved ones in
our communities too early, and we
need to continue to fight for funding to
find treatments and a cure.
I am extremely grateful to the chair-
man and his entire team for working to
increase funding this year, but I want
to be clear that we need to attack this
disease more aggressively.
It costs between $1 billion and $2 bil-
lion to find a treatment for ALS and
can take up to 15 years to bring an ef-
fective ALS treatment to market. Fur-
thermore, finding a cure would open up
a path to finding cures for other dis-
eases, like Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s,
multiple sclerosis, and many others.
We owe this to our veterans. We owe
this to every member of our commu-
nity who should not have to face this
disease without any hope for a cure.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time, and I withdraw the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment
is withdrawn.
AMENDMENT NO. 61 OFFERED BY MR. COX OF
CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 61 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. COX of California. Madam Chair,
I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 223, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $10,000,000)’’.
Page 248, line 18, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $10,000,000)’’.
Page 249, line 1, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $10,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from California (Mr. COX) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. COX of California. Madam Chair,
I thank the distinguished chairman as
well as the distinguished ranking mem-
ber for the great work with respect to
this legislation.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support
of my amendment, which makes a mod-
est adjustment to H.R. 2740. My amend-
ment would increase funding for the
Department of Defense Health Program
by $10 million. This amendment is
budget-neutral by reducing the Depart-
ment of Defense’s, the DOD’s, Depart-
mentwide operation maintenance fund
by the same amount.
The Defense Health Program over-
sees all medical and healthcare pro-
grams for the DOD, and the modifica-
tion made by my amendment would en-
sure the Department has sufficient re-
sources to fund vital medical research
concerning traumatic brain injury,
TBI; post-traumatic stress disorder,
PTSD; and psychological health. This
research would aid servicemembers and
civilians alike.
Over the past 10 years, there has been
a dramatic increase in the number of
servicemembers reported to have
PTSD, and we see these increases in
both active and nonactive servicemem-
bers.
Since 2001, over 2.7 million service-
members have served in war zones in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.068 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4730 June 18, 2019
Iraq and Afghanistan, and of those,
300,000 have been diagnosed with TBI.
And the DOD estimates that 22 percent
of all combat casualties in Iraq and Af-
ghanistan are brain injuries.
The cost of war not only harms our
servicemembers who have experienced
PTSD, but also the spouses, the par-
ents, the children, and the families,
who have hoped and prayed for the safe
return of their loved ones. Unfortu-
nately, we have discovered that the
battle continues when the servicemem-
bers return home with a PTSD, a TBI,
or other nonphysical injury.
Furthermore, whether or not PTSD
is a greater risk to female veterans
than male veterans is still largely un-
known, and as women continue to
serve in more active roles in the war
and are increasingly exposed to combat
situations, their likelihood of experi-
encing a PTSD, naturally, will rise. So
more research is better to understand
and help clinicians and other care pro-
viders to provide the necessary treat-
ment before symptoms of PTSD be-
come chronic.
We must—we must—do more for
those who sacrifice their lives for our
freedom. We cannot let them fall
through the cracks. That is why my
amendment is so critical.
With more of our troops returning
from deployment over the next several
years, we know that the number of
PTSD cases in the U.S. is going to in-
crease, but, today, only 40 percent of
servicemembers find relief from cur-
rent treatments.
The Defense Health Programs pro-
vide crucial medical research to pro-
vide innovative solutions for service-
members and family members facing
PTSD throughout our Nation.
As many may have seen, just on Sun-
day night, there are a number of inno-
vative solutions, like stellate ganglion
block, or SGB, that are currently being
investigated and can be considered
game changers in PTSD treatment. So,
by investing in new groundbreaking
technologies and therapies and trials,
this will bring help to servicemembers
who have tried current treatments but
have found that nothing works.
Madam Chair, my amendment would
further invest resources to help inform
health professionals on how to best
treat our military personnel.
Furthermore, the need for increased
funding for PTSD is not limited to only
the military, but our overall commu-
nities at large. PTSD conditions are on
the rise in numerous communities and
places throughout our Nation where vi-
olence is endemic.
This vital research undertaken by
the Department of Defense will benefit
everyone: individuals, families, and
those communities being affected
today. Madam Chair, I urge my col-
leagues to support my amendment and
its critical funding for medical re-
search concerning TBI, PTSD, psycho-
logical health that will help our serv-
icemembers and our Nation as a whole.
Madam Chair, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY).
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ap-
preciate the gentleman in this regard,
and I share his concerns.
I would simply point out for the
RECORD that, in the committee’s mark-
up, we have increased funding for this,
before the gentleman’s amendment, by
24 percent over last year’s level.
Madam Chair, I appreciate the gen-
tleman yielding.
Mr. COX of California. Madam Chair,
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. COX).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from California will be
postponed.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
move to strike the last word.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Indiana is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield to the gentleman from Florida.
Mr. SOTO. Madam Chair, I thank the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY) for yielding.
Madam Chair, I want to express my
gratitude to the committee for the in-
clusion of report language in the bill
noting the importance of obtaining ad-
vanced microelectronics manufac-
turing, in support of the defense indus-
trial base, from trusted domestic sup-
pliers.
Ensuring quick, reliable, and secure
access to leading-edge microelectronics
is often a challenge. The changing
global semiconductor industry and the
increasing sophistication of U.S. adver-
saries require us to update our domes-
tic microelectronics security frame-
work by establishing a comprehensive,
public-private partnership-structured
microelectronics cybersecurity center.
This center can provide the defense
industrial base with access to manufac-
turing resources to support antitamper
devices, hardware security, and other
evolving new concept technologies that
support trusted and assured manufac-
turing, combined with advanced sys-
tem integration and packaging tech-
nologies.
The Defense-Wide Manufacturing
Science and Technology Program en-
ables the Department of Defense to ad-
vance reliable and secure state-of-the-
art technologies. The funding increase
provided in this legislation, along with
the increased funding for advanced
manufacturing, will facilitate Amer-
ica’s innovative, secure, and domestic
foundry operations and greatly con-
tribute to our national defense through
the establishment of a microelec-
tronics cybersecurity center structured
as a public-private partnership.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman from Florida for
raising this important issue.
The committee recognizes the urgent
need to invest in trusted foundries, ad-
vanced microelectronics cybersecurity,
and manufacturing capabilities that
will translate our domestic research
into fielded capabilities for the
warfighter.
b 1730
I look forward to working with the
gentleman as we move forward on this
bill.
I yield to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM).
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, I
want to begin by thanking the com-
mittee for its work on the annual de-
fense spending bill and for the oppor-
tunity to speak on issues that are criti-
cally important to my constituents in
the Lowcountry.
In 2017, Congress mandated that the
military service branches consolidate
their medical activities under the De-
fense Health Agency. These reforms
were intended to eliminate redundancy
and reduce costs while improving ac-
cess to care.
Unfortunately, the manner in which
the Department is implementing these
reforms all but guarantees this will not
be the case. In my district in South
Carolina, we are, unfortunately, al-
ready feeling the effects.
Naval Hospital Beaufort provides
quality care to an estimated 35,000
servicemembers, retirees, and military
families in South Carolina. Just last
month, the Department eliminated the
naval hospital’s urgent care services.
Given the administration’s plan to
eliminate another 18,000 medical billets
nationwide, I am deeply concerned
about the effects that further cuts may
have on our military and their fami-
lies.
I am further troubled by the Depart-
ment’s lack of transparency into how
they are making decisions with regard
to the closure of medical services. In
addition, the Department has yet to
complete a detailed analysis of how
cuts in medical services may impact
surrounding communities, especially in
rural areas where alternative treat-
ment options may be limited.
As a result, military families in un-
derserved communities face an uncer-
tain future. In Beaufort County, my
constituents already face unreasonable
wait times to see their doctors. Given
the high concentration of veterans in
my district, any reduction in services
on Naval Hospital Beaufort is certain
to further reduce access to care and de-
grade unit readiness in the
Lowcountry.
I thank the committee for its atten-
tion to this issue, and I ask that it con-
tinues to work with me to ensure serv-
icemembers, retirees, and their fami-
lies can continue to have access to the
care that they need and deserve.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chair, I appre-
ciate the gentleman’s concern. The
committee has been following the im-
plication of the Department’s medical
reform efforts closely and certainly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.073 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4731
June 18, 2019
shares many of the gentleman’s con-
cerns.
The committee has requested the De-
partment provide details of the anal-
ysis used to determine changes to med-
ical services at the medical treatment
facilities. This analysis would include
details on the capacity of the local
community, cost impacts on providers,
and the risk to the served populations.
I assure the gentleman from South
Carolina that the committee will con-
tinue to monitor these issues closely.
Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM).
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Chair, I
thank the chairman very much for ac-
knowledging this problem. Going for-
ward, I will continue to work with the
Defense Subcommittee and the Armed
Services Committee, as well as the De-
partment, to make sure that military
families in the Lowcountry are not left
behind as a result of these reforms.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. HORSFORD).
The time of the gentleman from Indi-
ana has expired.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chair, I move
to strike the last word.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Indiana is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. We are moving
very close to the conclusion of debate
on this portion of H.R. 2740, and my
good friend ranking member Mr. CAL-
VERT and I would not be here without
our staff.
They have been exceptional, and I do
want to thank them: Ariana Sarar,
Jackie Ripke, Jennifer Chartrand,
Johnnie Kaberle, Kiya Batmanglidj,
Walter Hearne, Brooke Boyer, David
Bortnick, Matt Bower, Bill Adkins,
Hayden Milberg, Paul Kilbride, Shan-
non Richter, Sherry Young, Kyle
McFarland, and Jamie McCormick.
I also thank Joe DeVooght, Preston
Rackauskas, Rebecca Keightley, and
Christopher Romero, and finally, our
two clerks, Becky Leggieri and Leslie
Albright.
Again, sincerely, I thank Mr. CAL-
VERT, just a tremendous partner, and
all the members of our committee, as
well as all the associate staff.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I rise as
the designee of the ranking member
from Texas (Ms. GRANGER), and I move
to strike the last word.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I thank
Mr. VISCLOSKY for the great working
relationship we have had going through
this legislation in detail. We do this for
the men and women who serve the
United States military. We want to
make sure that they have the best
quality of life and, obviously, that we
procure the best weapons that are
available to make sure that if ever we
are in unfortunate circumstances, we
do not have a fair fight.
It has been a great experience. I also
thank all the staff for the great work
that they have done on both the major-
ity and the minority.
I do want to point out one thing to
the chairman. There is going to be a
meeting tomorrow at the White House,
hopefully, about a budget agreement.
Hope springs eternal, but, hopefully,
we can get a budget agreement with
the White House, the House, and the
Senate so that we don’t have to go into
sequestration later this year, which, as
the gentleman knows, would be a dis-
aster for the United States military.
Let’s wish them well as they try to
work out an agreement.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chair, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the motion that the Committee rise.
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. ROY. Mr. Chair, I demand a re-
corded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 317, noes 82,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 38, as
follows:
[Roll No. 323]
AYES—317
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chabot
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Grothman
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—82
Aderholt
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Cisneros
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Collins (NY)
Comer
Cunningham
Davidson (OH)
DeGette
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Estes
Flores
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hice (GA)
Hudson
Huizenga
Jackson Lee
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Keller
Kelly (MS)
King (NY)
Lamborn
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCollum
Meadows
Meuser
Mooney (WV)
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perlmutter
Perry
Porter
Ratcliffe
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Smith (MO)
Steube
Stewart
Suozzi
Taylor
Vela
Waters
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wild
Wittman
Wright
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Gonzalez (OH)
NOT VOTING—38
Abraham
Axne
Bishop (UT)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Clay
Collins (GA)
Curtis
DeLauro
DesJarlais
Doggett
Duffy
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Grijalva
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Hunter
Kinzinger
Larson (CT)
Meeks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:18 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.075 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4732 June 18, 2019
Moulton
Norton
Omar
Plaskett
Posey
Radewagen
Reed
Roby
San Nicolas
Schrader
Smucker
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
Young
b 1850
Ms. PORTER, Messrs. GALLAGHER,
BYRNE, Ms. DEGETTE, Messrs.
CISNEROS, KELLY of Mississippi,
JOHNSON of Louisiana, GUEST, COL-
LINS of New York, ROUZER,
BURCHETT, and AMASH changed
their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Mr. HIMES, Mses. GARCIA of Texas,
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. COLE, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Messrs.
LONG, BLUMENAUER, and
BUTTERFIELD changed their vote
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the motion to rise was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
LOWENTHAL) having assumed the chair,
Mr. HORSFORD, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union, reported that that
Committee, having had under consider-
ation the bill (H.R. 2740) making appro-
priations for the Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, had come
to no resolution thereon.
f
DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR,
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 431 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 2740.
Will the gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD) kindly resume the chair.
b 1853
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2740) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human
Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
with Mr. HORSFORD (Acting Chair) in
the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Thursday,
June 13, 2019, a request for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 98 printed in
part B of House Report 116–109 offered
by the gentleman from Indiana (Mr.
BANKS) had been postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
109 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 78 by Mrs. LESKO of
Arizona.
Amendment No. 79 by Ms. JACKSON
LEE of Texas.
Amendment No. 80 by Ms. JACKSON
LEE of Texas.
Amendment No. 81 by Mr. GOSAR of
Arizona.
Amendment No. 82 by Mr. GRIJALVA
of Arizona.
Amendment No. 83 by Mr. GOSAR of
Arizona.
Amendment No. 84 by Ms. SPEIER of
California.
Amendment No. 85 by Mr. MEADOWS
of North Carolina.
Amendments en bloc No. 1 by Mrs.
LOWEY of New York.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the time for any electronic vote after
the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 78 OFFERED BY MRS. LESKO
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs.
LESKO) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 5-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 188, noes 225,
not voting 25, as follows:
[Roll No. 324]
AYES—188
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Lipinski
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—225
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.041 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4733
June 18, 2019
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—25
Abraham
Axne
Curtis
DeLauro
DesJarlais
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Norcross
Omar
Posey
Pressley
Radewagen
Reed
Roby
Ryan
San Nicolas
Stewart
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
b 1909
Mr. HORSFORD changed his vote
from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Chair, on June
18, 2019, I was unavoidably detained during
the vote on the Lesko Amendment number 78
to H.R. 2740. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 324.
Ms. PRESSLEY. Madam Chair, I arrived
from committee late. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 324.
AMENDMENT NO. 79 OFFERED BY MS. JACKSON
LEE
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. UNDERWOOD).
The unfinished business is the demand
for a recorded vote on the amendment
offered by the gentlewoman from Texas
(Ms. JACKSON LEE) on which further
proceedings were postponed and on
which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 414, noes 6,
not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 325]
AYES—414
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—6
Arrington
Davidson (OH)
Massie
McClintock
Rice (SC)
Rooney (FL)
NOT VOTING—18
Abraham
Axne
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1915
Mr. NORMAN changed his vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 80 OFFERED BY MS. JACKSON
LEE
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE) on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 339, noes 79,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 326]
AYES—339
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.042 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4734 June 18, 2019
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—79
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Balderson
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Davidson (OH)
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fulcher
Gibbs
Golden
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
LaMalfa
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Massie
Mast
McClintock
Meuser
Mullin
Norman
Palazzo
Palmer
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Rogers (AL)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Steube
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Walberg
Walker
Westerman
Wright
Young
NOT VOTING—20
Abraham
Axne
Cheney
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1919
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 81 OFFERED BY MR. GOSAR
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 174, noes 244,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 327]
AYES—174
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—244
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:06 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.047 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4735
June 18, 2019
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—20
Abraham
Axne
Bishop (GA)
Cheney
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1924
Mr. CUMMINGS and Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 82 OFFERED BY MR. GRIJALVA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. GRI-
JALVA) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 310, noes 109,
not voting 19, as follows:
[Roll No. 328]
AYES—310
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—109
Aderholt
Allen
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Emmer
Ferguson
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kustoff (TN)
Lamborn
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McAdams
McCarthy
McClintock
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Mullin
Norman
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spanberger
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Thornberry
Timmons
Wagner
Walker
Walorski
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Wright
NOT VOTING—19
Abraham
Axne
Cheney
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1928
Mr. MCADAMS changed his vote
from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 83 OFFERED BY MR. GOSAR
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 170, noes 248,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 329]
AYES—170
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:06 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.046 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4736 June 18, 2019
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
NOES—248
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—20
Abraham
Axne
Cheney
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Reed
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1932
Mr. WELCH changed his vote from
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 84 OFFERED BY MS. SPEIER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
SPEIER) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 268, noes 152,
not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 330]
AYES—268
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Yarmuth
NOES—152
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Craig
Crawford
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davidson (OH)
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Fulcher
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:00 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.049 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4737
June 18, 2019
Smith (MO)
Smucker
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Van Drew
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Abraham
Axne
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1936
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 85 OFFERED BY MR. MEADOWS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 387, noes 33,
not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 331]
AYES—387
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sarbanes
Scalise
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—33
Allred
Arrington
Barragán
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Casten (IL)
Cisneros
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Davids (KS)
Dean
Engel
Gallego
Grijalva
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lieu, Ted
McBath
Meeks
Moore
Sánchez
Scanlon
Sires
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Underwood
Welch
Wild
Wilson (FL)
NOT VOTING—18
Abraham
Axne
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1940
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ
changed her vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC NO. 1 OFFERED BY MRS.
LOWEY OF NEW YORK
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendments en bloc offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
LOWEY) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendments en bloc.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ments en bloc.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 231, noes 187,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 332]
AYES—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:00 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.053 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4738 June 18, 2019
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—187
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—20
Abraham
Axne
Blumenauer
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gonzalez (TX)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Meadows
Moulton
Posey
Radewagen
Roby
San Nicolas
Waltz
Webster (FL)
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1946
So the en bloc amendments were
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York) having assumed the
chair, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Acting Chair of
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under con-
sideration the bill (H.R. 2740) making
appropriations for the Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, had come
to no resolution thereon.
f
DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR,
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 436 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 2740.
Will the gentlewoman from Illinois
(Ms. UNDERWOOD) kindly resume the
chair.
b 1950
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2740) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human
Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
with Ms. UNDERWOOD (Acting Chair) in
the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose earlier today,
a request for a recorded vote on amend-
ment No. 61, printed in part A of House
Report 116–111, offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. COX) had
been postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 63 OFFERED BY MR. BURGESS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 63 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of Division E (before the short
title) insert the following:
SEC. ll. Each amount made available by
this Division is hereby reduced by 5 percent.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
This amendment would reduce appro-
priations in the Energy and Water De-
velopment division by 5 percent. The
programs in this division have wide bi-
partisan support. This includes Federal
spending on water infrastructure, basic
science research, storm and flood dam-
age reduction activities, and more.
These critical programs are nec-
essary for the safety and health of our
citizens and the continued growth of
the economy. However, this legisla-
tion’s top-line spending is out of sync
with the Federal Government’s ongo-
ing fiscal predicament.
Congress must balance these initia-
tives with fiscal realism. Our national
debt is over $22 trillion and climbing,
and the majority’s legislation is only
adding to this debt.
Let’s work to improve this legisla-
tion in a bipartisan, bicameral effort to
ensure that we fund the programs that
we need today but not have our chil-
dren pay for them tomorrow.
Madam Chair, I urge support of this
amendment and a return to fiscal san-
ity, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I rise in
opposition to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I rise in
opposition to this amendment and
point out that our country really can’t
neglect vital investments for the safety
and welfare of the American people.
Our bill funds water resource projects
that are critical, including in Texas;
supports science and energy technology
research activities necessary to build
the future and our future competitive-
ness; and responsibly funds a credible
nuclear deterrent and important non-
proliferation efforts.
This amendment will harm all of
these. It will harm job creation and re-
duce protections against flooding and
natural disasters that all parts of our
country have been facing.
One can be penny-wise and pound-
foolish, and not making these invest-
ments will make the costs in the future
even greater.
This amendment will also result in
fewer investments in water resource in-
frastructure and energy research and
development programs, all of which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:00 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.052 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4739
June 18, 2019
create good jobs, have substantial re-
turns on investment, and position our
Nation for future needs.
We must continue investing in these
areas to ensure our national security
on many levels and to remain the glob-
al leader in energy and in science.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to join me in opposing this amend-
ment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, it is
actually a pretty easy equation. The
Federal Government, under the budget
caps agreement of 2011, is required to
perform under budget caps.
For whatever reason, we have chosen
to ignore that difficult fact of life
while these appropriations bills were
written. Top-line numbers were—well,
back in math class in the eighth grade,
we used to talk about imaginary num-
bers and irregular numbers. These
numbers are certainly imaginary and
irregular because they are not based on
reality.
All I am asking for is that we make
a good faith effort to save 5 cents out
of every dollar that we spend in this
appropriations bill. I don’t think that
is too much to ask. I don’t think any
one of us believes that every dollar
that is spent by the Federal Govern-
ment in the agencies is well spent and
there are not savings to be had.
That is all this amendment is asking
for: a limitation, across-the-board cut,
5 percent. Let’s get it passed. Then
let’s get back to the table and decide,
really, what the priorities are.
Because, you know what, Madam
Chair, at some point, if we proceed
down this path, the sequester is going
to kick in, and it will not be pretty,
and it will not be an easy path at that
point. It will actually be dictated to us,
not something where we have negotia-
tion room.
Madam Chair, I urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I ask
my colleagues to oppose this amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Texas will be post-
poned.
AMENDMENT NO. 64 OFFERED BY MR. BURGESS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 64 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I call
up amendment No. 64 to division E of
H.R. 2740.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 620, strike lines 1 through 8.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, this
amendment would strike section 108 of
this bill that prohibits any funding
used for border security infrastructure.
Let me say that again because I can’t
believe it myself.
This would strike section 108 of the
bill that prohibits any funding being
used for border security infrastructure.
There is a very clear humanitarian
and security crisis on our southern bor-
der. Customs and Border Protection
and Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment are strained by the enormous
number of border crossings each and
every day. In the month of May, over
144,000 individuals crossed our border
without permission. Over 96,000 are un-
accompanied children or family units.
But, instead of providing desperately
needed aid to take care of these chil-
dren and families, this bill only in-
cludes a provision to prohibit funding
to secure our border. It is appalling
that we have not considered supple-
mental funding to deal with this crisis.
As long as the doors remain wide
open, irregular migration will con-
tinue, and the American taxpayer will
have to foot the bill to care for another
country’s children.
We can no longer do nothing. I urge
support of this amendment to allow se-
curity along our southern border, and I
reserve the balance of my time
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I rise in
strong opposition to this amendment,
which really doesn’t belong in this bill.
Section 108 prevents the President
from siphoning off funds from critical
Army Corps projects to build a border
wall. These include important flood
control projects to protect and restore
communities from natural disasters
and navigation projects to keep our
ports moving commerce.
Our bill protects more than $20 bil-
lion in disaster funding appropriated
since February of last year to rebuild
damaged Corps projects and speed up
flood control projects all over the
country, including in my colleague’s
home State of Texas, which has been so
hard hit.
b 2000
It also protects funding for Corps
projects that are currently underway,
or soon will be, including projects in
every district across America. Without
this language, the President can raid
funding from any Corps water infra-
structure project he wants and divert
those funds to a border wall.
Earlier this year, when it became
public that the President was consid-
ering using the Corps’ Civil Works fund
to pay for a border wall, the backlash
was swift and strong, with bipartisan
opposition.
In fact, a number of my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle, including
those from Texas, tweeted that they
had secured the commitment of the
White House that the President would
not raid disaster funding for their Har-
vey relief projects. If approved, this
amendment would strike the language
in the bill that protects those projects.
So I remind my colleagues that a
‘‘yes’’ vote on this amendment is a
vote signaling that they are fine with
the President raiding Corps water in-
frastructure projects in their district
to build a border wall.
The President, on hundreds of occa-
sions, may I remind you, promised that
Mexico would pay for any border secu-
rity necessary to restore order at our
shared border. We cannot allow the
President to dip into accounts with in-
frastructure funds to assist ravaged
communities across our Nation.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
this amendment.
And I yield such time as she may
consume to the gentlewoman from
California (Mrs. NAPOLITANO), my es-
teemed colleague, chair of the Trans-
portation and Infrastructure Water
Subcommittee.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Chair, I
rise in strong opposition to the amend-
ment offered by the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
His amendment would strike from
the underlying bill a provision in Sec-
tion 108 that blocks the Trump admin-
istration from transferring existing
funds from the U.S. Army Corps of En-
gineers, known as the Corps, for the
construction of a wall or barrier along
the U.S./Mexico border.
I have been a very vocal opponent of
this President’s never-ending political
stunt to construct a wall along our
southern border with Mexico.
Through emergency supplemental
bills, Congress provided billions of dol-
lars to help American families rebuild
their lives after recent storms and nat-
ural disasters, as well as prepare our
country for future disasters. This
emergency money in the Corps budget
is not a slush fund to be raided by the
President for his political purposes.
Americans have seen their lives up-
ended, their homes and towns de-
stroyed, and havoc wreaked upon their
local economies. Our government
should not abandon them in their hour
of need.
I support Section 108 of the Energy
and Water Appropriations title of this
bill that prohibits the President from
transferring any funds appropriated in
this or earlier bills from being used for
the construction of this wall.
I was also pleased to join with the
chairs of the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, the Committee on Appropriations,
Mrs. LOWEY, and the Subcommittee on
Energy and Water, Ms. KAPTUR, in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:17 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.096 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4740 June 18, 2019
challenging, in a letter, the underlying
legal authority for the President to re-
allocate existing appropriated funds of
the Corps’ Civil Works program for the
construction of a physical barrier
along the southern border.
Madam Chair, I insert a copy of the
letter in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, January 16, 2019.
Hon. DONALD J. TRUMP,
The President, The White House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: You have publicly
indicated several times that you may seek to
declare a national emergency in order to
fund the construction of a physical barrier
along the southern border of the United
States. Also, a number of news reports sug-
gest you are considering utilizing a pre-
viously unused statutory authority to reallo-
cate existing funds of the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (Corps) for this construction.
We believe that any suggestion that you
could use this statutory authority for this
purpose is misinformed. Simply put, this au-
thority does not authorize you to reallocate
existing Corps funds—including, but not lim-
ited to, approximately $14 billion in disaster
funds for communities impacted by the 2017
and 2018 hurricanes or other natural disas-
ters—for the construction of the physical
barrier. In addition, we oppose the realloca-
tion of existing Corps funds from commu-
nities that are just starting to rebuild from
the devastation they faced, and for which
Congress provided emergency funds to help
the lives and livelihoods of our citizens.
Section 923(a) of the Water Resources De-
velopment Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2293(a))
states that:
In the event of a declaration of war or a
declaration by the President of a national
emergency in accordance with the National
Emergencies Act (90 Stat. 1255; 50 U.S.C. 1601)
that requires or may require use of the
Armed Forces, the Secretary, without regard
to any other provision of law, may (1) termi-
nate or defer the construction, operation,
maintenance, or repair of any Department of
the Army civil works project that he deems
not essential to the national defense, and (2)
apply the resources of the Department of the
Army’s civil works program, including funds,
personnel, and equipment, to construct or
assist in the construction, operation, main-
tenance, and repair of authorized civil
works, military construction, and civil de-
fense projects that are essential to the na-
tional defense.
As you know, this authority has never
been used by the Corps since its enactment
in 1986. Therefore, there is no historical
precedent on its use by any Presidential ad-
ministration. However, we believe that a
plain reading of this statutory provision does
not provide legal authority to reallocate ex-
isting appropriated funds of the Corps’ civil
works program for the construction of the
physical barrier along the southern border
you have called for.
First, section 923 unequivocally states that
actions funded by this provision ‘‘require or
may require use of the Armed Forces’’ (em-
phasis added). In our opinion, there is noth-
ing uniquely related to the planning, design,
or construction of the physical barrier that
would suggest the Armed Forces’ (in this
case, the Corps) involvement in these activi-
ties is required. We understand that the
Corps has, on previous occasions and through
its Support for Others authority, partici-
pated in prior design and construction ac-
tivities related to existing barriers along
with the southern border. But, it is also our
understanding that these activities were, at
best, supportive roles to other Federal agen-
cies, including the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection, and that none of these activities
were paid for using the Corps’ civil works
funds.
The legislative history of section 923 fur-
ther highlights Congress’ intent that there
be a military nexus as a prerequisite to use
of this authority. In contemporaneous hear-
ings before the Senate Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works, the then-Acting
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil
Works) testified on the limited scope of this
authority—noting that this authority
‘‘would be available only in two limited situ-
ations: in time of war declared by Congress,
or in time of national emergency, military in
nature, declared by the President in accord-
ance with the National Emergences Act’’
(emphasis added).
It is our belief that construction of a phys-
ical barrier along the southern border fails
to meet either of these limited situations.
On the former, there is no active declaration
of war related to the border crossing. On the
latter, there is no justification that con-
struction of the physical barrier is military
in nature. The term ‘‘military in nature,’’
again, implies that the situation requires the
unique presence or involvement of the De-
partment of Defense in its military (Armed
Forces) capacity. While the Corps is a com-
ponent of the Department of Defense, its
civil works mission is focused on water re-
sources development activities and emer-
gency response to natural disasters. It is in
that capacity that the Corps provides domes-
tic construction-related assistance through
its authorized civil works activities, or
through its Support for Others authority.
Yet, these authorities are solely distinct
from the Corps’ role in supporting the com-
bat and installation readiness needs of the
Department of Defense. In our view, because
construction of a physical barrier does not
necessitate the actions of the Department of
Defense in its military capacity, the use of
the Corps for construction of the barrier
would not fall within the limited scope of
section 923.
Second, section 923 also requires that any
project, for which construction, operation,
maintenance, and repair work is funded
under this authority, be specifically author-
ized by Congress. As noted in the Congres-
sional Record during Senate consideration of
the Water Resources Development Act of
1986, ‘‘[this] section does not provide author-
ity to construct any project not authorized
by law.’’ Yet, the proposed physical barrier
that you are contemplating is not specifi-
cally authorized by Congress—not as a civil
works project, not as a military construction
project, and not as a civil defense project.
Therefore, your potential use of this author-
ity for the proposed physical barrier would
fail a second test of applicability.
Even if you were to ignore the plain text of
section 923, and continue to pursue this au-
thority to reallocate existing funds from the
Corps, we want to be very clear who would be
impacted by your decision.
It is our understanding that the adminis-
tration has identified potentially $14 billion
in construction funds from the 2018 Supple-
mental Appropriations related to Hurricanes
Harvey, Irma, and Maria, as well as other
disasters (Pub. L. 115–123) and an additional
$2.9 billion in supplemental appropriations
related to Superstorm Sandy that remain
unobligated. These funds were specifically
appropriated by Congress to help commu-
nities in impacted states and territories re-
cover from devastating natural disasters.
In July 2018, the Corps released its list of
specific projects for which the 2018 Supple-
mental funds are planned to be utilized. This
list includes, approximately: $4.5 billion for
the State of Texas; $2.4 billion for the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico; $2.4 billion for
the State of California; $1.2 billion for the
State of Louisiana; and $700 million for the
State of Florida.
Each of the states and territories that re-
ceived an allocation of emergency supple-
mental funds by Congress were uniquely im-
pacted by natural disasters.
For example, in the City of Houston,
Texas, officials believe that 82 people were
killed, 13,000 people were rescued, and more
than 42,000 people were forced into shelters
by Hurricane Harvey (in addition to the 6
million Texans who were otherwise impacted
by the storm). Similarly, in 2017, Puerto
Rico faced Hurricanes Irma and Maria, with
Maria now designated as the third deadliest
hurricane in U.S. history, killing thousands
of citizens, and disabling the entire power
grid of the Commonwealth for months. While
these are just two examples of the dev-
astating impacts of recent natural disasters,
they are indicative of why Congress decided
to provide robust emergency funding to
these and similarly impacted communities
that are only now starring to rebuild.
In our view, it would be the height of irre-
sponsibility to take away vital reconstruc-
tion funds from communities impacted by
recent natural disasters, leaving these com-
munities at continued vulnerability to fu-
ture disasters, and future loss of life.
Again, we believe that section 923 of the
Water Resources Development Act of 1986
does not provide you with legal authority to
reallocate existing Corps funds to the con-
struction of a physical barrier along the
southern border. In addition, we oppose the
transfer of Corps funds away from commu-
nities that have already suffered enough
from the impacts of recent natural disasters,
and strongly urge you not to utilize these al-
located recovery dollars for any purpose re-
lated to the construction of the physical bar-
rier.
Sincerely,
PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chairman, Committee
on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
GRACE F. NAPOLITANO,
Member of Congress.
NITA M. LOWEY,
Chairwoman, Com-
mittee on Appropria-
tions.
MARCY KAPTUR,
Chairwoman-des-
ignate, Sub-
committee on Energy
and Water Develop-
ment and Related
Agencies.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Chair,
the construction of the President’s
wall is the wrong way to address our
Nation’s immigration challenges. This
amendment would allow the President
to abandon families in California,
Texas, Puerto Rico, Florida, the Mid-
west, and elsewhere, that were im-
pacted by recent natural disasters, in
their hour of need.
I thank Chairwoman KAPTUR for in-
cluding much-needed funding in this
bill for the Army Corps of Engineers to
do their job, and for including Section
108 that protects the Army Corps from
the political stunt of building a border
wall.
Madam Chair, I oppose this amend-
ment.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:17 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.099 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4741
June 18, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, may I
ask as to the time remaining on my
side.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Texas has 31⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. ROY).
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, the truth is
the President of the United States
shouldn’t be forced to have to make
the tough decisions of figuring out how
to secure our border without support
from this institution, but that is pre-
cisely what is happening. The Presi-
dent of the United States is having to
look at a crisis on our border that our
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
just simply straight up refuse to ac-
knowledge exists.
When I was down at the border in
McAllen in January, I was told of
about 200,000 people that would be ap-
prehended; maybe 200,000 that would
not be apprehended. And I was told 90
percent of that was going to come
through McAllen, as opposed to
Brownsville. Why? Because there is
fencing in Brownsville.
I would ask my colleagues whether
they have ever been to the border, in
the cane, along the river, talking to
Border Patrol when they are there at
11:00 at night, and they have radios
that don’t work; cell signals that don’t
work. They can’t see the river because
the cane is too thick. They have no
roads that are lateral that run along
the river, so they can move up and
down the river to protect our border.
They are down there by themselves,
and the cartels have operational con-
trol of the river.
The Reynoso faction of the Gulf Car-
tel, they own it. They are making hun-
dreds of millions of dollars moving peo-
ple through McAllen right now. And
right now, little girls are going to be
abused on the journey because we bury
our heads in the sand.
The President is trying to secure the
border, and the Democrats, in another
cynical attempt to stop security, are
putting provisions and poison pills in
this legislation to prevent the kind of
security that is needed for our border.
I, for the life of me, don’t understand
it.
I appreciate my colleague from Texas
standing up and making this point that
we should be preserving the ability of
the President to be able to do his job in
the absence of a Congress willing to do
its job.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I would
just like to remind the gentleman—I
think he is new to this body—that the
President said he was going to get Mex-
ico to pay for everything. He said that
1,000 times. Didn’t happen.
He is not going to raid our accounts.
The gentleman has communities in
his State. Unfortunately, he held up
the money for a long time about a
week and a half ago; and so now he
comes to the floor and talks this way.
He is not going to raid the Corps
budget under my watch; that is for
sure. Communities across this country
need this money.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
It is a pretty simple equation. A
‘‘no’’ vote on this amendment is, in
fact, a vote for open borders. As Mr.
ROY correctly pointed out, there are
far too many stretches of our border in
Texas with Mexico, where there is no
barrier at all. Carrizo cane and mes-
quite trees will not stop people who
have it in their hearts to come across.
The operational control has been
ceded to criminal gangs and cartels on
the Mexican side of the border. This
needs to stop.
This amendment simply removes a
cynical obstruction to the President
being able to do his job when the Con-
gress will not do our job.
I urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Texas will be post-
poned.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC NO. 3 OFFERED BY MS.
KAPTUR OF OHIO
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chairman, pur-
suant to House Resolution 436, I offer
amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 3 consisting
of amendment Nos. 65, 71, 73, 83, 88, 94,
105, 106, and 108 printed in part B of
House Report 116–111, offered by Ms.
KAPTUR of Ohio:
AMENDMENT NO. 65 OFFERED BY MS.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ OF FLORIDA
At the end of division E (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to issue a per-
mit under section 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act for the discharge of
dredged or fill material from a project lo-
cated within Water Conservation Areas 3A
and 3B in the State of Florida.
AMENDMENT NO. 71 OFFERED BY MR. LANGEVIN
OF RHODE ISLAND
Page 640, line 3, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by
$5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 73 OFFERED BY MR. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
Page 631, line 22, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,400,000)’’.
Page 637, line 15, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 83 OFFERED BY MS. CASTOR OF
FLORIDA
At the end of division E (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to finalize the pro-
posed rule entitled ‘‘Energy Conservation
Program: Energy Conservation Standards for
General Service Lamps’’ published by the
Department of Energy in the Federal Reg-
ister on February 11, 2019 (84 Fed. Reg. 3120).
AMENDMENT NO. 88 OFFERED BY MR. BERA OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 621, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000) (decreased by
$2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 94 OFFERED BY MR. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE OF PENNSYLVANIA
At the end of division E (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to reject any appli-
cation for a grant available under funds ap-
propriated by this Act because of the use of
the term ‘‘global warming’’ or the term ‘‘cli-
mate change’’ in the application.
AMENDMENT NO. 105 OFFERED BY MS. OMAR OF
MINNESOTA
At the end of division E (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Secretary of
Energy to make a guarantee under section
1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42
U.S.C. 16513) for a project that does not
avoid, reduce, or sequester air pollutants or
anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse
gases.
AMENDMENT NO. 106 OFFERED BY MRS. LEE OF
NEVADA
Page 635, line 12, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 637, line 24, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 108 OFFERED BY MR. GARCÍA OF
ILLINOIS
Page 631, line 22, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 629, line 19, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) and the gen-
tleman from Idaho (Mr. SIMPSON) each
will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Ohio.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, this en
bloc includes amendments from Rep-
resentatives WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
LANGEVIN, GRIJALVA, CASTOR, BERA,
BOYLE, OMAR, LEE of Nevada, and
GARCÍA of Illinois. This includes a num-
ber of ideas that were not included in
the original bill, and that we support.
Madam Chair, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ), the chair of the
Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
Madam Chair, I rise to support the en
bloc amendment, which includes my
amendment to protect Water Conserva-
tion Areas in the Everglades from oil
wells.
It is important to point out that as of
last year, the Federal Government and
the State of Florida had spent more
than $3.7 billion to restore the Florida
Everglades, the river grass. I am here
to say, by offering this amendment, I
want to ensure that we not roll back
that progress.
My amendment would ensure that
avaricious oil companies who care for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:18 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.100 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4742 June 18, 2019
nothing but profit, cannot turn our
famed river of grass into an industrial
oil field.
An investment company has applied
to drill an oil well just west of the city
of Miramar in Broward County, my
home county, much of which I rep-
resent.
Drilling an oil well in the middle of a
Water Conservation Area that is 20,000
acres wide, between two canals, when
you have 8 million people who rely, for
their drinking water, on the aquifer be-
neath the Florida Everglades, is the
definition of insanity.
My amendment would ensure that
the Army Corps of Engineers could not
issue this heinous permit when it is ap-
plied for.
We have, under the Federal and State
Comprehensive Everglades Restoration
Plan, water managers who want to con-
nect two conservation areas that are
part of southern Florida’s hydrological
system. A lawsuit that is pending in
Federal court argues that drilling vio-
lates the Comprehensive Everglades
Restoration Plan, and I agree, and this
amendment would ensure that the
Army Corps must deny the permit.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to this amendment. I
would like to address what the gentle-
woman just said in just a minute.
While I may have been able to sup-
port some of the amendments that
have been considered individually—and
I noticed that as we listed the Members
that have offered amendments they
were all Democratic amendments; none
of them were Republican amend-
ments—the majority’s decision to
package them together like this means
I must oppose an en bloc amendment.
I have concerns with multiple pieces
of this en bloc amendment, but I would
like to focus on two of them; one that
was just spoken about by the gentle-
woman from Florida.
First, this amendment includes lan-
guage that would prohibit the Army
Corps of Engineers from issuing a sec-
tion 404 permit for any project in a spe-
cific geographical location.
Legislatively deciding individual per-
mit outcomes is something the Energy
and Water Subcommittee, under both
Republican and Democrat leadership,
have previously avoided. That restraint
was not because we were never asked
to legislate the outcome of a permit.
We were asked many, many times.
Rather, it was in recognition that
Congress has established a process by
which the technical experts within the
Federal agencies would evaluate
projects to determine whether environ-
mental impacts could be avoided or
minimized such that the project could
move forward.
Injecting politics into the process by
inserting language into an appropria-
tion bill sets the wrong precedent. It
suggests that any future permit deci-
sion could be decided by the whim of a
majority of Congress.
The second issue I would like to dis-
cuss is the language prohibiting the
Department of Energy from finalizing
the rule relating to the efficiency
standards of light bulbs.
I know there are some parties who
have characterized the proposed rule as
a roll back of efficiency standards.
What it really does, though, is ensure
the Department is following the law.
The previous rule, a rule promul-
gated at the very last minute of the
Obama administration, revised certain
definitions contrary to statutory lan-
guage. That rule was challenged le-
gally, and the settlement acknowl-
edged the mistake.
The current proposed rule reduces
the regulatory uncertainty by making
clear that several types of light bulbs
will continue to be sold. It also shows
DOE’s commitment to following the
law, a novel concept. We should all sup-
port following the laws that Congress
passes.
For these reasons, I must oppose this
en bloc amendment, and I urge my col-
leagues to do the same.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. GARCÍA).
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Madam
Chair, my amendment shifts $5 million
in funding for fossil fuel research and
development to Energy Efficiency and
Renewable Energy Research.
Increasing energy efficiency and the
use of renewable energy, like wind and
solar, are the most cost-effective ways
of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
These funds can also fund research in
more fuel-efficient passenger vehicles
for transit options.
The Trump administration’s 2020
budget proposed cutting over $2 billion
from energy efficiency programs, and
authorized an additional $116 million to
fund new oil, gas, and coal projects.
b 2015
As climate change continues to
threaten our future economic pros-
perity and the lives of billions world-
wide, we should be focusing our efforts
on clean, renewable energy.
Madam Chair, I thank my colleagues
on the Rules Committee for making
this important amendment in order. I
urge all of my colleagues to support
my amendment to further promote en-
ergy efficiency and renewable energy
research and development.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I ask
my colleagues to join me in support of
this amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, tribal energy
resources are vast, largely untapped, and crit-
ical in our fight to move towards a secure and
sustainable energy future. Despite this poten-
tial, many tribal homes lack access to elec-
tricity and affordable heating sources.
Our amendment increases the Office of In-
dian Energy Policy and Programs by $2 mil-
lion and reduces Fossil Energy Research and
Development by $2.4 million. This increase
should be allocated specifically for renewable
energy.
This amendment ensures that we place a
higher priority on energy needs and capabili-
ties within tribal lands and communities, by
slightly reducing a growing and outdated fossil
fuel account.
The funding will provide financial and tech-
nical assistance to enable tribes to evaluate
and develop their renewable energy resources
and to reduce their energy costs through effi-
ciency and weatherization.
Funds may be used to offer education and
training opportunities designed to foster clean
energy technology adoption, promote green
jobs and growth, and strengthen overall native
communities’ self-determination.
Through these projects, tribes can continue
to build the capacity to manage their energy
needs. Many tribes’ energy costs are higher
than the national average, making installation
of renewable energy a permanent improve-
ment in their finances and lives.
Investing in renewable energy technologies
provides many benefits for tribes:
It creates economic stability by protecting
these communities from fluctuations of con-
ventional energy sources and by providing
steady revenue into the future.
It creates employment in manufacturing, op-
erations, and maintenance. Installing wind tur-
bines, solar heaters, and solar panels in the
communities provide opportunities for hands-
on education and training.
Onsite renewable power can contribute to
tribal energy self-sufficiency by providing elec-
tricity in rural areas underserved by the exist-
ing power grid and save tribes revenues.
Developing local renewable energy re-
sources can improve local air quality and
health conditions, as well as improve the com-
munities’ response to climate change impacts
and extreme weather disruptions.
This amendment will help Indian Country by
moving a small amount of funding away from
old energy sources that are leaving us reliant
on out-date and harmful energy sources.
Despite the need to transition to a clean en-
ergy future, the Fossil Energy Research and
Development account has increased $72 mil-
lion since 2017.
Currently there are 573 recognized tribes,
yet the Office Indian Energy is appropriated at
only $25 million.
The longer we postpone an orderly transi-
tion away from fossil fuels the more vulnerable
we become as a society—what better way to
move forward than to present our Native na-
tions with the opportunity to be leaders of our
energy future.
This amendment will make a difference in
the quality of life of American Indians and
Alaska Natives by bringing renewable energy
and energy efficiency options to their sov-
ereign nations.
I would like to thank the chairman and the
committee for their work on this bill. I appre-
ciate the opportunity to speak on this amend-
ment, and I would urge all of my colleagues to
support this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendments en bloc offered by
the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. KAP-
TUR).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.102 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4743
June 18, 2019
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendments en bloc
offered by the gentlewoman from Ohio
will be postponed.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC NO. 4 OFFERED BY MS.
KAPTUR OF OHIO
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, pursu-
ant to House Resolution 436, I offer
amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 4 consisting
of amendment Nos. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 72,
74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 84, 85, 86, 87,
92, 93, 95, 96, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 104, 107,
109, 110, 111, 112, and 113 printed in part
A of House Report 116–111, offered by
Ms. KAPTUR of Ohio:
AMENDMENT NO. 66 OFFERED BY MR.
FLEISCHMANN OF TENNESSEE
Page 639, line 14, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $123,000,000) (reduced by
$123,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 67 OFFERED BY MS. NORTON OF
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Page 610, line 23, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000) (in-
creased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 68 OFFERED BY MR. WILSON OF
SOUTH CAROLINA
Page 641, line 12, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $6,500,000)’’.
Page 641, line 12, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $6,500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 69 OFFERED BY MS. VELÁZQUEZ
OF NEW YORK
Page 611, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $45,000,000) (increased by
$45,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 70 OFFERED BY MR. GRAVES OF
MISSOURI
Page 610, line 23, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $4,000,000)’’.
Page 615, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $4,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 72 OFFERED BY MR. WALBERG
OF MICHIGAN
Page 630, line 7, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 637, line 24, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 74 OFFERED BY MR. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
Page 613, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $4,000,000)’’.
Page 615, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $4,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 75 OFFERED BY MR. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
Page 613, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $75,000,000) (reduced by
$75,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 76 OFFERED BY MR. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
Page 611, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 615, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 77 OFFERED BY MR. LIPINSKI OF
ILLINOIS
Page 635, line 5, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $15,000,000) (increased by
$15,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 78 OFFERED BY MR. MCKINLEY
OF WEST VIRGINIA
Page 631, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 637, line 24, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 79 OFFERED BY MR. LOEBSACK
OF IOWA
Page 629, line 19, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)(reduced by
$5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 81 OFFERED BY MR. WELCH OF
VERMONT
Page 611, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $40,000,000) (reduced by
$40,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 82 OFFERED BY MS. KUSTER OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE
Page 637, line 24, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 659, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 84 OFFERED BY MR. PERRY OF
PENNSYLVANIA
Page 629, line 19, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 637, line 24, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 85 OFFERED BY MR. FOSTER OF
ILLINOIS
Page 631, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1)’’.
Page 631, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 86 OFFERED BY MR. HUDSON OF
NORTH CAROLINA
Page 631, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,317,808,000)’’.
Page 631, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,317,808,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 87 OFFERED BY MR. BERA OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 613, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $ 3,000,000)’’.
Page 615, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $ 3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 92 OFFERED BY MR. RUIZ OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 621, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by
$2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 93 OFFERED BY MR. ROUZER OF
NORTH CAROLINA
Page 613, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 616, line 9, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 95 OFFERED BY MR. ESTES OF
KANSAS
Page 621, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 621, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 96 OFFERED BY MISS RICE OF
NEW YORK
Page 629, line 19, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $16,308,000)’’.
Page 629, line 19, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $16,308,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 98 OFFERED BY MS. PLASKETT
OF VIRGIN ISLANDS
Page 611, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $100,000,000) (increased by
$100,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 99 OFFERED BY MR. CLOUD OF
TEXAS
Page 631, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 637, line 24, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 100 OFFERED BY MR. CLOUD OF
TEXAS
Page 631, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 637, line 24, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 101 OFFERED BY MS. BLUNT
ROCHESTER OF DELAWARE
Page 610, line 23, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,000,000) (in-
creased by $1,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 102 OFFERED BY MR. LAMB OF
PENNSYLVANIA
Page 631, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by
$1,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 104 OFFERED BY MR.
O’HALLERAN OF ARIZONA
Page 637, line 24, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $1,000,000)’’.
Page 629, line 19, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 107 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 611, line 15, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000) (in-
creased by $5,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 109 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 649, line 9, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $500,000) (increased by
$500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 110 OFFERED BY MRS. CRAIG OF
MINNESOTA
Page 610, line 23, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,000,000)’’.
Page 613, line 13, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $1,000,000)’’.
Page 615, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 111 OFFERED BY MRS. CRAIG OF
MINNESOTA
Page 611, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $7,500,000)(increased by
$7,500,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 112 OFFERED BY MR. MCADAMS
OF UTAH
Page 620, line 14, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 621, line 16, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $4,000,000)’’.
Page 625, line 6, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 113 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN
Page 611, line 15, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $30,000,000)(increased by
$30,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentlewoman
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) and the gen-
tleman from Idaho (Mr. SIMPSON) each
will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Ohio.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, this amendment in-
cludes a number of bipartisan and non-
controversial ideas that were not in-
cluded in the original bill.
Madam Chair, I support this amend-
ment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of the
en bloc amendment. I thank Chair-
woman LOWEY and Chairwoman KAP-
TUR for working with our side to in-
clude many provisions important to
our Members. I appreciate the decision
to offer this bipartisan en bloc amend-
ment, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port it.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Iowa
(Mr. LOEBSACK), a highly capable mem-
ber of the committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.104 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4744 June 18, 2019
Mr. LOEBSACK. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding. I
appreciate that very much.
My amendment will ensure level
funding for distributed wind tech-
nologies and research within the De-
partment of Energy’s wind energy pro-
gram.
Distributed wind is the use of typi-
cally smaller wind turbines owned pri-
marily by rural and local entities, such
as homes, farms, businesses, and public
facilities, to offset all or a portion of
onsite energy consumption. This type
of energy production strengthens
American communities by helping
them become more energy independent
while lowering costs for consumers.
Distributed wind also strengthens do-
mestic manufacturing, as 90 percent of
all small wind turbines sold in the U.S.
last year were made in America.
The funding provided over the past
few fiscal years has helped unleash dis-
tributed wind power’s vast potential,
but continued investment is needed to
support the critical research and devel-
opment that will reduce costs and
maximize the benefits of distributed
wind power throughout the United
States.
Madam Chair, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this amendment.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. WEBER).
Mr. WEBER of Texas. Madam Chair,
I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Chair, I think Mr. LAMB is
going to have a statement here coming
up, and I thank Chairman LAMB in ad-
vance for his remarks. He has a jam-up
amendment.
Nuclear energy has been one of my
top priorities during my time on the
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee. America has a long history of
leadership in nuclear science. It is crit-
ical that we maintain that leadership,
but our existing fleet of reactors is
aging.
Many of our nuclear plants are near-
ing the end of their 40-year licenses and
must reapply with the NRC to continue
operation. While license renewals are
important to ensure nuclear safety, the
process requires robust analysis, plan-
ning, and science- and technology-
based solutions to modernize nuclear
plants.
Fortunately, the DOE is carrying out
this critical R&D through its Light
Water Reactor Sustainability Program.
This program funds research in mate-
rials, modeling, and system analytics
to support extending the operating life
of the existing fleet.
By developing a science-based ap-
proach to understanding and predicting
the ways materials and nuclear plants
behave over time, DOE can help plant
operators find ways to safely operate
existing systems while mitigating po-
tential damage to reactor components.
DOE also funds R&D to support plant
modernization efforts. This includes
developing ways to safely incorporate
digital controls into existing plant de-
signs to help improve reactor effi-
ciency, as well as efforts to help exist-
ing plants operate with more flexi-
bility.
I believe advanced reactor designs
are the future of emissions-free power
around our world, but we cannot afford
to throw away decades of investment
in the safe, reliable, clean power pro-
duced by our existing light-water nu-
clear power plants. Through research
to safely extend the life of our existing
nuclear fleet, DOE can ensure we maxi-
mize this clean energy source.
Madam Chair, I thank Chairman
LAMB in advance for working with me
on this amendment, and I encourage all
of my colleagues to support it once he
does his fabulous presentation.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. LIPINSKI), the indefatigable gen-
tleman on our committee.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Chair, I thank
the chair and ranking member for in-
cluding and supporting my amendment
in this bloc, and I thank Mr. FOSTER
for his support.
The amendment redirects an addi-
tional $15 million to the Leadership
Computing Facility at Argonne Na-
tional Lab. This facility will be home
to Aurora, the first exascale computer
in the U.S., if not the world.
We are currently in a race with China
to build the first computer that can
perform 1 billion billion operations per
second. This will enable advanced sim-
ulations, such as climate modeling. It
will also aid in the discovery of new
therapeutic drugs and the development
of new materials for solar energy pro-
duction, batteries, and other advanced
technologies.
It is an economic and national secu-
rity imperative that the U.S. main-
tains leadership in supercomputing by
developing a well-supported exascale
computer, and this amendment will
help do that.
Madam Chair, I thank the chair and
ranking member for their support.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. PERRY).
Mr. PERRY. Madam Chair, I thank
my good friend from Idaho and my
good colleagues from the other side of
the aisle for allowing this amendment
to receive consideration.
Hydropower is one of the Nation’s
most affordable and reliable renewable
electricity resources. With over 100
gigawatts of installed capacity, hydro
makes up nearly 7 percent, on average,
of all U.S. annual electricity genera-
tion. As a matter of fact, hydro is the
single largest source of renewable elec-
tricity, representing over one-half of
all renewable energy generation in
2018.
This is due to the significant advan-
tage hydropower generation, as a base-
load source of energy, has over inter-
mittent sources, like wind and solar. It
provides predictable, continuous gen-
eration 24–7-365 without the need to
hold backup generation in standby to
power the lights when the Sun goes
down or the wind stops. Because of this
important distinction, additional hy-
dropower generation results in in-
creased generation rather than just ca-
pacity.
If we want to be serious about in-
creasing renewable energy, we need to
focus on what works best. More can
and must be done to significantly ex-
pand this vital energy resource. Only 3
percent of the 80,000 dams in the U.S.
currently generate electricity, leaving
substantial potential for additional
generation from unpowered dams. As a
matter of fact, in my home State of
Pennsylvania, there is an estimated 678
megawatts of untapped hydropower.
The recent trend of closures among
baseload power generation facilities
threatens our Nation’s ability to meet
our energy needs. Unleashing the full
potential of hydropower provides a
remedy that is proven, reliable, and re-
newable.
Critical to realizing this potential is
DOE’s Water Power Technologies Of-
fice. This amendment increases fund-
ing for the office by $2 million to con-
tinue their important mission.
Madam Chair, I ask the support of
my colleagues for this amendment.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. FOSTER), probably one of the top
scientists who has ever served in this
Chamber.
Mr. FOSTER. Madam Chair, first, I
am a proud cosponsor of Representa-
tive LIPINSKI’s amendment, which
would direct an increase of $15 million
to Argonne National Laboratory’s
Leadership Computing Facility.
The ALCF is a national scientific
user facility that provides supercom-
puting resources and expertise to the
scientific and engineering community
to accelerate the pace of discovery and
innovation in a broad range of dis-
ciplines. This money will be well spent.
A second amendment, offered by my-
self, instructs the National Academies
of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
to include accelerator-driven systems
in its evaluation of future nuclear
technology and fuel.
There is a bipartisan and bicameral
interest in accelerating investment in
advanced nuclear reactors, which are
walkaway safe and proliferation-resist-
ant and have the potential to burn or
minimize nuclear waste.
One proposed system uses a proton
accelerator, a neutron spallation tar-
get, and molten salt fuel, but it re-
mains subcritical, thereby greatly re-
ducing the safety and security risks.
It can, without redesign, burn spent
nuclear fuel, natural uranium, tho-
rium, or surplus weapons material,
such as surplus plutonium. It operates
without the need for enrichment or re-
processing and may be used to produce
the tritium needed to maintain our
stockpile.
Madam Chair, I thank my colleagues
for their support.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. ROUZER), my good friend.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.105 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4745
June 18, 2019
Mr. ROUZER. Madam Chair, I appre-
ciate the courtesy of my good friend
from Idaho. I certainly appreciate his
help and support with this amendment
that is included in this package.
Put very plainly, my amendment is
designed to get the attention of the
Army Corps of Engineers and for a very
good reason.
In the Water Infrastructure Improve-
ments for the Nation Act of 2016, lan-
guage was included requiring the Army
Corps of Engineers to work with local-
ities that request a no-wake zone if
there is a safety concern caused by
speeding boats generating large wakes
in stretches of federally maintained
waters that run adjacent to a marina.
Southport, North Carolina, a beau-
tiful waterfront community, has been
waiting nearly 3 years to have a no-
wake zone established. That is 3 years
of speeding boats creating wakes that
have caused fuel spills at Southport
Marina and, thankfully, at least so far,
only minor injuries to date.
Everyone back home knows this
poses a significant safety concern. We
just need for some who work in an
agency known as the Army Corps of
Engineers to understand it just as well.
Common sense tells us that at some
point, there is going to be a major acci-
dent. This is a very high traffic area of
recreational boats. Doing nothing, as
the Corps appears to favor, is not an
option.
Madam Chair, I thank my colleagues
for their support of this amendment.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. RUIZ).
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Chair, I rise today
to express my support for this block of
amendments to H.R. 2740.
Included is my amendment to provide
$2 million in critical funding for Bu-
reau of Reclamation projects with a
public health benefit, such as the
Salton Sea in southern California.
The Salton Sea is a danger to Califor-
nian residents. Dust from the exposed
lake bed contains harmful particulate
matter that blows into communities
and is inhaled by residents as far away
as Los Angeles.
If we do not take decisive action now,
the Salton Sea’s decline will accel-
erate, exacerbating this public health
crisis and leading more children and
seniors to develop respiratory illnesses
like asthma.
After Congress passed this amend-
ment last year, the Bureau devoted $2.5
million to mitigation projects at the
Salton Sea. My amendment would con-
tinue this essential funding to invest in
the health of families who live near the
Salton Sea and beyond.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to vote for my amendment to support
the public health of children, seniors,
and families across southern Cali-
fornia, and I thank Chair KAPTUR for
her support and interest in helping us
with the Salton Sea.
b 2030
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. LAMB), a veteran.
Mr. LAMB. Madam Chair, I also rise
to support these en bloc amendments,
particularly my amendment to in-
crease and emphasize the support for
research in the Office of Nuclear En-
ergy Light Water Sustainability Pro-
gram.
In my district in Shippingport, Penn-
sylvania, we gave birth to the civilian
nuclear fleet. President Eisenhower
launched that plant in 1958, and many
other plants have come up around the
Nation providing carbon-free, safe, reli-
able energy, and many of them have
served long past their useful life.
Tens of thousands of American work-
ers keep these plants running today.
They keep us safe. We have to protect
these plants, protect these jobs, and,
most importantly, protect our energy
grid. We can do that with better re-
search into how to make these plants
run more efficiently, more cheaply,
and more competitively.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. WEBER).
Mr. WEBER of Texas. Madam Chair,
I want to thank Chairwoman KAPTUR
and Ranking Member SIMPSON, and
now I want to say thank you to my col-
league, who has got an excellent
amendment, and I applaud it very
much. I want to say to all of my col-
leagues: Support it. It is a great
amendment, and we look forward to
passing it.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. LEVIN), a hardworking Mem-
ber from the Wolverine State.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, I am proud to support this bill,
and I thank Chairwoman KAPTUR for
her leadership.
I am especially pleased to see this
bill’s increased investment in the im-
portant work of the Army Corps of En-
gineers to advance key water infra-
structure construction priorities.
My amendment prioritizes $30 mil-
lion of that funding for critically need-
ed projects that improve the quality of
freshwater bodies like Lake St. Clair in
my district.
To make urgent water quality im-
provements to Lake St. Clair, to the
Great Lakes, and to freshwater bodies
across our country, we must prioritize
Federal funding for improving Macomb
County’s Chapaton Retention Basin
and other such sewer overflow systems
that help us protect the water sources
our communities rely on every day.
I would like to point out that I am
working on this with the now director
of public works in Macomb County,
former Member of this body, Candice
Miller.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I rise to
ask for support of this amendment.
Thirty-four of our Members, many
have come to speak on their particular
interest. I have reached agreement on a
bipartisan basis. I think that speaks
for itself, and I ask the membership to
support this amendment en bloc.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I urge
my colleagues to support this amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ESTES. Madam Chair, I rise today in
support of an amendment to the Energy and
Water Development and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Division that seeks to increase
support for water reclamation projects.
Millions of people and businesses through-
out our country are able to enjoy a stable
water supply thanks to this vital infrastructure.
One example is the Equus Beds Aquifer Re-
charge, Storage and Recovery project in
Wichita, Kansas.
Equus Beds provides the main water supply
for nearly 500,000 people in Wichita and the
surrounding region.
In addition to servicing citizens, it is also
vital for businesses and farms throughout the
entire area that includes cities such as Wich-
ita, Halstead, Newton, Hutchinson, McPher-
son, Valley Center and others.
Equus Beds became a key component of
Wichita’s Integrated Local Water Supply Plan
in 1993, when it was determined that the city’s
water supply would not meet demand by the
year 2015.
Thankfully since its implementation, the
Equus Beds Aquifer has recharged 2.5 billion
gallons of water to continue meeting the re-
gion’s needs.
Clearly, water reclamation projects like
Equus Beds are critical to sustaining the econ-
omy and quality of life in Wichita and through-
out our country.
Today I urge support for amendment 95 to
H.R. 2740 to increase support in the bill for
water reclamation projects like the Equus
Beds Aquifer.
I ask my colleagues to approve this amend-
ment en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendments en bloc offered by
the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. KAP-
TUR).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendments en bloc
offered by the gentlewoman from Ohio
will be postponed.
The Chair understands that amend-
ment No. 80 will not be offered.
AMENDMENT NO. 89 OFFERED BY MR. MULLIN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 89 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. MULLIN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of division E (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to prepare, propose,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.106 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4746 June 18, 2019
or promulgate any regulation or guidance
that references or relies on the analysis con-
tained in—
(1) ‘‘Technical Support Document: Social
Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Anal-
ysis Under Executive Order 12866’’, published
by the Interagency Working Group on Social
Cost of Carbon, United States Government,
in February 2010;
(2) ‘‘Technical Support Document: Tech-
nical Update of the Social Cost of Carbon for
Regulatory Impact Analysis Under Execu-
tive Order 12866’’, published by the Inter-
agency Working Group on Social Cost of Car-
bon, United States Government, in May 2013
and revised in November 2013;
(3) ‘‘Revised Draft Guidance for Federal
Departments and Agencies on Consideration
of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and the Effects
of Climate Change in NEPA Reviews’’, pub-
lished by the Council on Environmental
Quality on December 24, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg.
77802);
(4) ‘‘Technical Support Document: Tech-
nical Update of the Social Cost of Carbon for
Regulatory Impact Analysis Under Execu-
tive Order 12866’’, published by the Inter-
agency Working Group on Social Cost of Car-
bon, United States Government, in July 2015;
(5) ‘‘Addendum to the Technical Support
Document on Social Cost of Carbon for Regu-
latory Impact Analysis Under Executive
Order 12866: Application of the Methodology
to Estimate the Social Cost of Methane and
the Social Cost of Nitrous Oxide’’, published
by the Interagency Working Group on Social
Cost of Greenhouse Gases, United States
Government, in August 2016; or
(6) ‘‘Technical Support Document: Tech-
nical Update of the Social Cost of Carbon for
Regulatory Impact Analysis Under Execu-
tive Order 12866’’, published by the Inter-
agency Working Group on Social Cost of
Greenhouse Gases, United States Govern-
ment, in August 2016.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Oklahoma (Mr. MULLIN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oklahoma.
Mr. MULLIN. Madam Chair, my
amendment would prohibit funds for
implementing the social cost of carbon
rule.
Congress and the American people
have repeatedly rejected cap-and-trade
proposals. The Obama administration
continuously used social cost of carbon
models, which can easily be manipu-
lated in order to attempt to justify new
job-killing regulations.
I believe in efficiently using the Na-
tion’s vast energy resources while pro-
tecting the air we breathe, the water
we drink, and the land we live on.
The House has a clear, strong record
of opposition to the social cost of car-
bon, voting at least 12 times to block,
defund, or oppose the proposal. A car-
bon tax would inevitably be passed
along to consumers, undermining the
success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
we passed last Congress.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I rise in
strong opposition to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, the
amendment offered by my colleague
from Oklahoma prohibits the use of
funds to prepare, to propose, or to pro-
mulgate any regulation or guidance
that references or relies on analysis of
the cost of social carbon.
It is really unfortunate that the Re-
publican flat Earth faction is at it
again. This amendment tells the agen-
cies funded in this bill to ignore the
latest climate change science. As-
toundingly, the amendment denies that
carbon pollution is harmful. Wow.
According to this amendment, there
is zero cost of carbon pollution. That is
denial at its worst. Ask any power
plant operator who is retired who con-
tracted emphysema because of their
work on those power plants—and these
people exist in our society if they
haven’t died already—or heavy truck
diesel mechanics who worked on re-
tooling engines when those fumes were
in the garages when they gave their
lives to the public sector and they now
have COPD, pulmonary disease.
This amendment is tantamount to
saying that pollution caused climate
change, has no cost, and no one will
ever get hurt. That is simply not true.
Tell the American citizens who lost
businesses, homes, and loved ones to
hurricanes, wildfires, and other recent
natural disasters, and those who con-
tinue to face unrelenting flooding in
the Midwest that there are no costs
from climate change.
In the latest National Climate As-
sessment, our Nation’s leading climate
scientists reiterated what we have
known for years: Climate change is
real. It is evidenced by the climate-re-
lated indicators we have observed, in-
cluding longer seasons, extreme
drought, flooding, sea level rise, and
more violent storms.
This amendment tells agencies fund-
ed in this bill to ignore reality and
these scientific findings. This is not
only irresponsible, but a blatant dis-
regard to the well-being and security of
this Nation and our people, whom we
are sworn to protect and defend.
The truth is that climate change is
having catastrophic social and eco-
nomic impacts here in the United
States and across our globe. These are
real. Ask the nearest farmer—and I
just have been with them this past
week—who can’t plant their fields in
the Midwest. And those who are less
fortunate face the heaviest impact.
Now is not the time. In fact, that
group of citizens who live in the ninth
ward in New Orleans below sea level
comes to mind. Now is not the time to
pretend that extreme weather events,
rising seas, and more frequent storms
do not have a cost.
Before the Trump administration
abandoned common sense, the social
cost of carbon was a very conservative
calculation. The full costs of a rapidly
changing climate are almost certainly
significantly higher, but measuring the
social cost of carbon is a much better
way than believing the costs are zero.
Unfortunately, that is what this
amendment would require the govern-
ment to assume: zero harm and zero
cost from carbon pollution and climate
change.
Pretending that climate change
doesn’t exist won’t make it go away. I
urge my colleagues to reject this
amendment.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. MULLIN. Madam Chair, there is
a lot to unpack there, and we can de-
bate that all day, especially when you
start bringing the farmers into it, be-
cause you are looking at one. I don’t
have to be with them because I am one
of them, and I am from the Midwest.
But when you start saying that ev-
erything is the fault and everything is
to blame because of climate change, it
has been changing for quite some time,
and we could go ahead and talk about
that, too. However, I am not going to
change her mind, so we are going to
agree to disagree.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I urge
my colleagues to oppose this amend-
ment.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. MULLIN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Oklahoma will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 90 OFFERED BY MR. HUFFMAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 90 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of division E (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to finalize the envi-
ronmental impact statement for the pro-
posed Pebble Project (POA-2017-271).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from California (Mr. HUFFMAN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Chair, my
amendment would stop the Army Corps
of Engineers from moving forward with
their flawed environmental impact
statement for the proposed Pebble
Mine.
Now, the Pebble Mine is a massive
project that would be located in the
headwaters of the Bristol Bay water-
shed in southeast Alaska. It threatens
the entire Bristol Bay region: its peo-
ple, its salmon, and its multimillion-
dollar economy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.065 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4747
June 18, 2019
The Bristol Bay watershed supports
25 federally recognized Tribes that de-
pend on salmon for food and their local
economy and on a healthy watershed
for their clean water.
Bristol Bay’s wild salmon have sus-
tained Alaska’s indigenous commu-
nities for thousands of years by pro-
viding subsistence food, subsistence-
based livelihoods, and the foundation
for their culture and community.
Salmon are the economic driver in
Bristol Bay, and the region supplies
half of the world’s sockeye salmon and
83 percent of the country’s salmon
overall.
At about this time each year, com-
mercial fishermen go to Bristol Bay to
harvest that amazing sockeye salmon
run. The commercial harvest results in
more than $1 billion in economic im-
pact, $500 million in direct income, and
14,000 jobs.
Bristol Bay is also one of the most
sought after sportsmen’s destinations.
Hunting and recreational fishing draws
visitors from around the world, result-
ing in over a thousand jobs and nearly
$80 million in direct spending.
The EPA has previously said the im-
pacts of mining on fish populations in
the region could be catastrophic and ir-
reversible. Over 3,500 acres of wetlands
and over 80 miles of stream, which are
all connected to salmon habitat, would
be directly impacted by this mine and
its infrastructure.
The proposed project would also gen-
erate an average of 6.8 billion gallons
per year of wastewater during oper-
ations, 11.8 billion gallons during clo-
sure, and all of it would require cap-
ture and treatment.
This is unprecedented. There is no
other U.S. hard rock mining operation
that captures and treats such a mas-
sive volume of contaminated mine
water, which is harmful to fish and to
public health.
We know that mines are not invin-
cible. Things go wrong. And if any of
the negative impacts on waterways and
ecosystems that have resulted from
other mine failures were to happen in
Bristol Bay, the way of life for Alaska
Tribes, fishermen, businesses, and resi-
dents would be devastated.
Bristol Bay already provides enough
for a thriving economy and supports a
way of life that is sustainable for fu-
ture generations. The Pebble Mine puts
all of that at risk, at risk of significant
irreversible damage. That is why the
majority of Bristol Bay residents and
Alaskans oppose the project. It is why
53 other Members of Congress have
joined me in telling the Army Corps
they should not permit this mine.
While a thorough and rigorous review
would clearly show that it is the wrong
mine and the wrong place, the Federal
permitting process for the Pebble Mine
has been wholly insufficient. Tribal
input is not being incorporated, nor are
Tribal governments being meaning-
fully consulted. The Army Corps, itself,
acknowledges numerous data gaps, and
the review fails to analyze economic
feasibility and disaster scenarios or
provide comprehensive reclamation
and mitigation plans.
b 2045
The rushed environmental review
process has sparked wide-scale opposi-
tion from throughout the country.
Fishermen, Tribes, sportsmen groups,
businesses, conservation organizations,
all of them have weighed in in opposi-
tion to this shoddy, wrongheaded Corps
project.
My amendment would stop the Peb-
ble Mine. It would stop this flawed
process. It prohibits funding to com-
plete the process because there are fun-
damental flaws with the Army Corps’
current analysis.
Bristol Bay is a national treasure.
We have to do this right or risk losing
an incredible resource. I urge support
for my amendment, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Idaho is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, let me
just say, first of all, that everything
you have heard from the former attor-
ney for the NRDC is just nonsense, and
the reason it is nonsense is because he
doesn’t know. Nobody knows. That is
why we have a review of these proce-
dures. That is why we have NEPA.
That is why the National Environ-
mental Policy Act is in place, which
many of my friends across the aisle
view as the foundational environ-
mental law. It requires Federal agen-
cies to evaluate the environmental im-
pacts of projects before the project can
be approved. The Corps is in the proc-
ess of doing that.
Now, I don’t know if he is worried
that the outcome might not be like he
likes, but if everything he said is true,
then they certainly won’t permit it.
To be clear, I am not advocating for
or against this particular project; I
don’t know enough about it. But what
I am saying is Congress should stay out
of the process of individual reviews.
Setting the precedent of injecting po-
litical opinions into the NEPA process
simply means that any project in the
future will be subject to the whims of
the majority party at the time.
Such a scenario should be a concern
for all Members, Republicans and
Democrats alike. Perhaps next time
the interest will be in legislatively ap-
proving a specific project. This amend-
ment would serve as a precedent.
What I am saying is let the process
work. We have put in place the process.
So all of the scenarios that he claims
are going to be true, we don’t know if
that is true or not because nobody
knows yet. They are just opinions.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Chair, what
we do know about this process is that
the Army Corps, itself, has acknowl-
edged serious data gaps.
What we do know is that Tribal input
has not been seriously incorporated
into this process, and we know that the
National Marine Fishery Services,
which is the agency that should be
there at the table as a participating
agency to protect this iconic fishery, is
not participating in this process.
So what this amendment would do is
stop this deeply flawed process. If the
administration wants to try to start
over and get it right, I have just identi-
fied some of the ways in which this ter-
ribly flawed process could be repaired
and they could move forward in the
next budget.
But there are too many red flags
waving. Bristol Bay and its salmon are
too important to the people of that re-
gion and to this country.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman from California has expired.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, if those
are flaws in the process, then I am sure
that a court challenge by the NRDC
will actually bring those out.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Alaska (Mr.
YOUNG), my friend.
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. SIMP-
SON), ranking member of the com-
mittee, and I was interested in listen-
ing to this conversation.
I would really respectfully ask the
Member to respect the district which I
represent. I am not talking about the
mine. I am talking about the process.
This is State land. They gave it to
us, the Congress—State land. They put
it up for discovery. It was discovered.
And under the clause of the discovery,
you have the right for exploration.
Under the right for exploration, you
have a right for production, if it is pos-
sible to process.
And the chairman, the ranking mem-
ber put it very clearly: Let’s go
through the process. What this gen-
tleman from California is saying: We
are going to make a decision what is
right for everything here, and they
don’t know a damn thing about it,
nothing, because they are promoting
people saying: This shouldn’t be done.
There is no science behind it yet.
Science is what they talk about all
the time. It is the bedrock. EIS is the
bedrock. And yet they are ignoring it,
expecting this Congress that doesn’t
know squat about the mining in Alas-
ka.
It is our land, not their land. It is not
Federal land. It is our land.
I am saying, let the process work.
Let the process go through. That is
what we are here for. Not for us to
make decisions.
The ranking member put it very
clearly. What are we going to do next
time? They will not be in the majority
forever, and we will have some things
they do not want, and we will say we
are going to do it.
They are ignoring the science, and
they brag about the science all the
time. Let the science prove us right or
wrong. That should be their responsi-
bility, not saying they are for or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.111 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4748 June 18, 2019
against a mine and give all these
doomsday things there. They may hap-
pen. If that happens, it will not happen
because it will not issue the permits.
I want everybody to think about this
a moment. What is happening here to-
night is for the interest of some envi-
ronmental groups—which you used to
be head of, by the way—environmental
groups to stop a project that is not any
of their business until science has not
been proven. I am saying let’s look for
it. Let’s look for proven. I am saying
let’s look for it. Let’s look for the
science. If that happens, then we will
do it.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I yield
the balance of my time to the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR).
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Idaho (Mr. SIMP-
SON).
Madam Chair, this amendment also
makes a mockery of our laws that gov-
ern the permitting process for mining
operations and is a complete violation
of basic fairness.
Specifically, this amendment super-
sedes the Democrats’ supposed flagship
environmental regulatory law, NEPA—
unbelievable.
Currently, the Army Corps of Engi-
neers is doing exactly what Congress
intended it to do under NEPA with re-
gard to the proposed Pebble Mine
project. It is analyzing the environ-
mental and socioeconomic con-
sequences of the proposed mine.
A wonderful adage is good process
builds good policy, builds good politics.
We ought to embrace that. And if we
really want to put our nose in other
places, maybe what we ought to do, as
I challenge my good friend from Cali-
fornia, is, instead of focusing on this
project, to look at his State in his own
district. Maybe he ought to be focusing
on the illegal marijuana farms in his
district that are using pesticides and
polluting local waters and damaging
national forests and our plants.
This is something that is pertinent
to Alaska, to the Member from Alaska.
The Tribes have been consulted. It is
just that the one Tribe that he is talk-
ing about, no process followed. But the
people closest to this that are most in-
volved have been for this mine. They
want good process, and I oppose the
amendment.
Mr. SIMPSON. I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. HUFFMAN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Chair, I demand
a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from California will be
postponed.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, as the
designee of Chairwoman LOWEY, I move
to strike the last word.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. PANETTA), my dear col-
league.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Ohio may not yield blocks of
time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield
to the gentleman from California (Mr.
PANETTA).
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentlewoman for this oppor-
tunity.
I rise today in support of the funding
in this appropriations bill for flood and
storm damage reduction in economi-
cally disadvantaged areas.
Included in this bill, thank goodness,
is $15 million for Army Corps of Engi-
neers projects in communities that
have previously experienced dev-
astating floods and where the per cap-
ita income is less than half of the State
and national averages.
This type of funding, as we can tell,
is critical for economically disadvan-
taged communities across our country
to not only recover from, but prevent,
destructive and deadly floods.
One of these areas is the Pajaro Val-
ley in my district on the central coast
of California, an area where flooding
has consistently hit it for the past 25
years and caused millions of dollars of
damage to the surrounding agriculture
crops. But it has also displaced hun-
dreds and hundreds of residents, many
of whom work in those fields.
That is why this bill is very impor-
tant, because it can provide important
funding for projects that protect the
people who need it the most, for busi-
nesses that need it the most, in my
community and in communities all
across this country.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this funding bill, and I
thank Chairwoman KAPTUR for this
time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
AMENDMENT NO. 91 OFFERED BY MR. GRAVES OF
LOUISIANA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 91 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. GRAVES. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
In division E, strike section 106.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Louisiana.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, I appreciate the opportunity to
bring up this amendment today.
This amendment is pretty simple. In
division E, section 106 has a provision
that says that no funds in this act or
any other act may be used to carry out
any activities that would include
transferring or effectively modifying
the mission of the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers. I understand that it is pret-
ty clear plain language, section 106, di-
vision E.
The problem is this: If the perform-
ance of the agency were stellar, I would
understand that, and perhaps we would
try and protect it, but let me throw out
a few statistics painting a picture of
what it is that we are dealing with.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
today, has a $100 billion backlog in au-
thorized projects—$100 billion. These
projects are projects like sustaining
communities, resilience projects, flood
protection, ecological restoration,
deepening navigation channels.
Let me tell a little about the per-
formance of the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, Madam Chair.
You can look at ports in other coun-
tries. They have been able to facilitate
the Post-Panamax, the larger vessels.
In the United States, we are years or
decades behind where we should be,
putting our ports at a disadvantage, re-
sulting in our consumers paying higher
prices for those goods that are being
shipped.
In regards to ecological restoration
in my home State of Louisiana, we lost
2,000 square miles of our coastal wet-
lands, had billions of dollars in restora-
tion projects authorized, and none of
them are moving forward—not even
starting, in most cases.
We have hurricane and flood protec-
tion projects. I don’t have to remind
anyone here. Hurricanes Irma, Maria,
Michael, Florence; North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Florida,
Texas, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, the Vir-
gin Islands. These places were pounded.
People died because of the lack of resil-
ience, the lack of these projects being
carried out.
Lastly, Madam Chair, my home State
of Louisiana, going back to 2005, I
heard a little while ago somebody talk-
ing about Hurricane Katrina. What
people don’t realize or don’t under-
stand, the project that was designed to
stop that flooding, that devastation,
the loss of 1,200 to 1,500 of my brothers,
sisters, friends, relatives, neighbors,
fellow Louisianians, that project was
authorized, dates back to the 1970s, and
it wasn’t finished. It wasn’t finished in
2005.
I am not asking to move the cord. I
am asking to look at how to improve,
how to modify this. Let’s look at a bet-
ter result to where we are not spending
as we have in recent years, $1.7 trillion
responding to countless disasters
across this country that have cost our
Nation over $1 billion a pop.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I rise in
strong opposition to this amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.112 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4749
June 18, 2019
I share the gentleman’s frustration,
but I would like to say that I think the
answer is that so many projects within
the Corps have never had the infra-
structure funding that they have need-
ed to move forward, and our bill does
provide a leap forward in that direc-
tion.
I think it is an understatement to
say that the Army Corps today has its
hands full, and I don’t think we need to
add any confusion by trying to tinker
around breaking up agencies and so
forth at this moment.
b 2100
Section 106 of the underlying bill was
included in the bill after the adminis-
tration proposed breaking up the Army
Corps and transferring parts of it—
arms, legs, heads—to other Federal
agencies.
I don’t really think that is in the Na-
tion’s interest. That plan was met with
wide bipartisan opposition from both
sides of the Capitol. Such a plan would
require a plan to authorize that pro-
posal, but of course, the administration
never presented Congress with draft
legislation.
Nevertheless, the administration
doubled down on its shortsighted and
misguided plan and was set to begin
planning efforts until Congress stepped
in last fall. The fiscal year 2019 Energy
and Water Development bill authored
by my colleagues from across the aisle,
included this same provision which en-
joyed bipartisan, bicameral support.
The Corps is responsible for the man-
agement of complex, multipurpose
projects, some vast, requiring expertise
in many areas. Instead of trying to
break up and fragment the agency’s re-
sponsibilities, I would suggest that the
administration focus on how it can
make the Corps successful in its cur-
rent organizational structure, includ-
ing deferring to the technical judgment
of the Corps instead of the constant in-
terference from OMB bureaucrats who
have never laid a foundation, nor oper-
ated spillways along the Mississippi or
the Missouri, and so many other re-
sponsibilities that the Corps holds
across this country.
The Army Corps literally holds the
lives and communities of the American
people in its jurisdiction. Let them do
their job. And if they are listening,
they are cheering around this country.
I strongly oppose this amendment
and urge my colleagues to do the same
thing.
I yield to the gentleman from Idaho
(Mr. SIMPSON).
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding, and I ap-
preciate my friend from Louisiana’s
passion on this issue.
Saying that the Corps has $100 billion
backlog, it is not really the Corps’
fault for that. It is our fault in that we
haven’t appropriated money. And if
you look back through the years, the
Bush administration, the Obama ad-
ministration, and, currently, the
Trump administration, always propose
a budget that slashes and burns the
Corps’ budget. And it is the Energy and
Water Development and Related Agen-
cies Subcommittee that won’t let them
do that and keeps putting money back
into it.
Last year, the Office of Management
and Budget issued a plan for reorga-
nization of the Federal agencies that
included moving the Civil Works pro-
gram from the Army Corps of Engi-
neers to multiple other agencies. Yet,
very few details were provided to Con-
gress. Congress was not consulted, and
no statutory changes were enacted.
Yet, some in the administration took
steps to try to begin implementing the
reorganization proposal.
In response, that is why the language
was put in last year’s act, and that is
why it is in this year’s act. I will tell
the gentleman that we have had this
discussion many times with General
Semonite, and he is a go-get-’em guy.
When he is given a mission, he will do
whatever it takes to get that mission
accomplished. I like what he is doing.
I wouldn’t want to go with OMB in
saying we are going to reorganize the
Corps and not know exactly what they
are going to do and have Congress have
no input. But I appreciate the passion
that the gentleman has for this, and I
understand his frustration. And I think
that it is better placed on the Trans-
portation Committee in seeing if there
are some reorganizations that can be
done within the Corps and done legisla-
tively that make sense.
I urge my colleagues to oppose this
amendment.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chairwoman, I
would like to thank the gentleman for
those remarks and to say that I share
his deep concern about the way that
OMB, in particular, has a tennis match
with Congress when it comes to the
Army Corps of Engineers.
There is not a more important infra-
structure agency at this moment in
our country than the Army Corps. The
administration said it was going to
come forward with an infrastructure
bill. Well, if they can’t do whatever
they are calling an infrastructure bill,
this is the infrastructure bill for this
country at this time.
The needs are enormous. I can’t
imagine. We have 8 divisions and 38 dis-
tricts. I want to thank every single in-
dividual out there sworn to protect and
defend the American people who work
for the Army Corps of Engineers and
give their lives to this profession
across this country.
General Semonite is a great patriot,
and as were his predecessors. It has a
long history, and we really need to
have more attention devoted to Corps
funding by various administrations
that sit over there in the executive
branch and underfund these projects
around the country. That is why Lou-
isiana had so much trouble and that is
why other places in the country have
so much trouble.
So I do not support the gentleman’s
amendment. I urge opposition, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chairwoman, I just heard comments
from folks saying that Congress needs
to step in. The Transportation Com-
mittee should look at this and act, and
perhaps propose reorganization legisla-
tion or studies, and other things. And I
hate to bring this up, but Congress did
just that.
Let me say it again. Congress did
just that. Section 1102 of the Water Re-
sources Development Act of 2018, which
you both supported, included language
which actually says that the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering,
and Medicine, and the Corps of Engi-
neers should enter into an agreement
to look at more efficient delivery of
Corps of Engineers’ projects.
This amendment doesn’t move the
Corps of Engineers out. What it does is,
it says, clearly, there is a problem. And
if the problem is Congress and the
funding, then that is what the study
will determine. Let them go. Let them
do the analysis, just like we did on a
bipartisan basis.
Congresswoman Esty and I offered
the amendment. It was unanimously
accepted. It passed in this House twice,
and it is law today. That is all I am
asking for. I am baffled that folks are
afraid of information, perhaps better
ideas, on how to deliver these projects.
I understand that people have their
perception of where the problems are.
Madam Chairwoman, if I bring any-
thing to this Chamber, I have spent
more time working on Corps of Engi-
neers projects than anybody else and,
in fact, I am going to go so far as to
say than everybody else in this Cham-
ber combined.
I would be happy to throw the stats
out. This is what I used to do. I used to
work with the Corps of Engineers on a
daily basis doing billions and billions
of dollars’ worth of projects.
This is a flawed process. We routinely
were able to build projects that the
Corps of Engineers designed for one-
half to one-third the cost. Madam
Chairwoman, what that does is, it al-
lows it to build double or triple the
amount of projects for the same cost.
If we need to get this backlog broken
then, certainly, that is an efficiency
that we can bring to the table. Why are
people afraid of information? This sta-
tus quo is not working. I shudder to
think about what everyone is going to
do and say next time we have a cata-
strophic disaster in an area where
there is a Corps of Engineers project
that sat there for decades.
This is a flawed process. The status
quo has failed. I urge adoption of the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. SHALALA).
The question is on the amendment of-
fered by the gentleman from Louisiana
(Mr. GRAVES).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.115 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4750 June 18, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Louisiana will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 97 OFFERED BY MR. BANKS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 97 printed
in part A of House Report 116–111.
Mr. BANKS. I have an amendment at
the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of division E (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. l. Each amount made available in di-
vision E, except those amounts made avail-
able to the Department of Defense, is hereby
reduced by 14 percent.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 436, the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. BANKS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Indiana.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Chairwoman, in
total, the Energy and Water Develop-
ment division cost the American tax-
payers $46.4 billion.
That is a 4 percent increase above the
fiscal year 2019-enacted level. Specifi-
cally, the division includes $23.3 billion
for nondefense activities, which is an
increase of $1.1 billion above the fiscal
year 2019-enacted level.
My amendment would apply a 14 per-
cent reduction across the board to the
nondefense activities included in this
division. Without it, we are on track
toward sequestration, which would
have devastating effects on our na-
tional security.
This amendment is necessary because
we are at a $22 trillion national debt.
That is trillion, with a T. Even before
my friends across the aisle offered this
reckless spending package, the Con-
gressional Budget Office estimated
that we were on track to spend $1 tril-
lion on interest payments in 2029. That
means one-fifth of the entire budget
would go to paying off previous years
of irresponsible spending.
Madam Chairwoman, we simply can-
not continue down this path. We must
balance our books before writing new
checks for this fiscal year.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chairwoman, I
rise in opposition to this amendment.
The Acting Chair. The gentlewoman
from Ohio is recognized for 5 Minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chairwoman, I
rise in opposition to this amendment
because really, it takes us backwards.
The gentleman is from Indiana. I am
from Ohio. I think both of us have seen
individuals that we represent go off to
war. How many wars have we gotten
into over the issue of oil and the oil
supply of the globe?
The Department of Energy has been
inventing the future to a point where
now, we are 90 percent self-sufficient
inside the boundaries of this country.
This department helps to invent the fu-
ture and helps America be more secure.
Every one of us has some sense of what
is happening with cyberattacks in our
energy systems.
Over the weekend, a major retailer,
Target, for whatever reason, all the
cash registers went dead around the
country. Was it just a satellite prob-
lem? Was it an attack by a foreign ag-
gressor? I simply don’t know. But I
know this department isn’t a place
where we should be cutting.
Climate change, whether one wishes
to admit it or not, is going to require
a change in our way of life. This de-
partment is essential to help us move
in that direction in a very organized
manner. Every penny counts and every
step we take to help the American peo-
ple be more secure is needed.
This bill funds critical water re-
source projects and supports science
and energy technology. It helps our
businesses be more competitive. It
funds a credible nuclear deterrent
where we have commitments and also
nonproliferation, which is important
not just to our country, but to the
world.
I think the gentleman’s amendment
will actually harm all of these fronts
and reduce protections against what
the American people are facing from
coast to coast right now.
I think that the gentleman’s objec-
tives on balancing the budget are cor-
rect, but I don’t think it should be
taken out of the hide of these pro-
grams. There are other ways to do
that—some of the giveaways to the bil-
lionaire class in this country who have
had the privilege of living a good life
and earning a great deal of money in
this country. Everybody has got to
pitch in. But I don’t think where we
are inventing the future and helping
the American people become more se-
cure in our way of life is the place to
hack away.
I urge a continued investment in
these areas for purposes of our national
security and to remain a global leader
in energy, water, and science. I urge
my colleagues to join me in opposing
this amendment.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Chairwoman, I
was proud this year to lead the Repub-
lican Study Committee’s effort in cre-
ating and drafting our own budget as
part of the Budget and Spending Task
Force.
I gathered together with several of
my colleagues, coming from different
States and different views, and we
worked tirelessly for months to
produce a budget that would cut waste-
ful government spending by $12.6 tril-
lion over a 6-year time period.
This is not just the only budget of-
fered in this body that balances. It is
the only budget that has been offered
at all. The fact that my friends on the
other side of the aisle refuse to even
offer a budget shows a stunning lack of
leadership.
This is my third amendment to cut
across the board 14 percent in each of
the divisions of these minibuses.
b 2115
My amendment reflects the values of
the RSC budget and is a necessary first
step toward eventually achieving a bal-
anced budget.
Madam Chair, I will continue to
come back to this floor and offer this
amendment time and time again be-
cause I refuse to condemn my daugh-
ters to a less prosperous America than
the one that every Member of this
Chamber has been blessed to know.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I urge
opposition to this amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. BANKS).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. ROY. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Indiana will be
postponed.
The Chair understands that amend-
ment No. 103 will not be offered.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE) having assumed the chair,
Ms. SHALALA, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 2740) making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and related agencies for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes, had come to no res-
olution thereon.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 3056,
BORDER CRISIS SUPPLEMENTAL
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to consider a meas-
ure that I would like to speak about for
1 minute.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, to be
clear, my request was to call up H.R.
3056, a measure to make sure we have
the funding necessary to end the border
security crisis that the President and
his Office of Management and Budget
sent to the Congress. It is Mr. ROGERS
from Alabama’s bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the
Chair has noted, under guidelines con-
sistently issued by successive Speak-
ers, as recorded in section 956 of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.118 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4751
June 18, 2019
House Rules and Manual, the Chair is
constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
f
EMPOWERING BENEFICIARIES, EN-
SURING ACCESS, AND
STRENGTHENING ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3253) to provide for certain
extensions with respect to the Med-
icaid program under title XIX of the
Social Security Act, and for other pur-
poses, as amended, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Mrs.
DINGELL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 371, nays 46,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 333]
YEAS—371
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—46
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Babin
Banks
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Byrne
Cline
Cloud
Davidson (OH)
Foxx (NC)
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Harris
Hice (GA)
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Lamborn
Lesko
Loudermilk
Massie
McCaul
McClintock
Meadows
Norman
Palmer
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Roby
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Steube
Weber (TX)
Williams
Wright
NOT VOTING—15
Abraham
Arrington
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Gallego
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
LaHood
Moulton
Waltz
Westerman
Yoho
b 2148
Messrs. MEADOWS, WILLIAMS,
BANKS, and Mrs. ROBY changed their
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. CUELLAR, LIPINSKI, DUN-
CAN, TONKO, and GRIFFITH changed
their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CONGRESSIONAL WOMEN’S
SOFTBALL GAME
(Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
Madam Speaker, in the beginning of
the 116th Congress, we elected more
than 80 new Members; and so, in order
to welcome you to the 116th Congress,
the women of the Congressional Wom-
en’s Softball team want to make sure
that everyone knows that the game is
finally here.
The 11th Annual Congressional Wom-
en’s Softball Game is tomorrow night
at 7 p.m. It is at Watkins Recreation
Center, 420 12th Street, Southeast.
The reason I refer to the 80-plus new
Members is that many of you may not
know that we began playing this game
11 years ago, after I made an announce-
ment, a public announcement that I
had been through breast cancer at 41
years old. I was diagnosed, at 41 after
doing a self-exam in the shower.
One day I was the picture of health;
the next day I was a cancer patient.
And, subsequently found that I was
also BRCA2 positive, meaning that I
had a genetic mutation that made it
infinitely more likely that I would
have a recurrence, and that I would
very likely get ovarian cancer at some
point.
So, after a year, 15 months really, of
hell, and seven surgeries, not sharing it
until I was all the way through the
other side, I shared my story.
We introduced the EARLY Act, the
Education and Awareness Requires
Learning Young Act, which has been
law since 2010, which is a law that now
raises awareness in young women, an
education and awareness campaign
that has been funded every year with $5
million, to make sure that we can help
young women be aware of their breast
health.
So many young women work for us
on our staffs. We have a team that we
play against, the common adversary of
all of us, the press corps, the female
press corps, and they generally are
much younger.
So, Madam Speaker, we raise money
for the Young Survival Coalition at
this game. It is an organization that
helps young women who deal with the
challenges that they face when they
have breast cancer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.121 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4752 June 18, 2019
We encourage you all to come out
and cheer on Team Congress so we can
beat the press and beat cancer.
I am a founding cocaptain of the Con-
gressional Women’s Softball team. Jo
Ann Emerson, our former Republican
colleague, was my cocaptain.
MARTHA ROBY is one of our cocap-
tains this year and, unfortunately, la-
dies, the only Republican currently
playing on the House side. So there is
always next year.
But I would like to turn over the po-
dium, briefly, to my cocaptain, MAR-
THA ROBY. I encourage everyone to
wear pink, and come out and cheer on
Team Congress tomorrow.
Mrs. ROBY. Just very quickly, I just
want to say please, please, please come
out and support this event. Go Con-
gress. Beat the press. Beat cancer.
f
DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR,
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 431 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 2740.
Will the gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD) kindly resume the chair.
b 2155
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2740) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human
Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
with Mr. HORSFORD, (Acting Chair) in
the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Thursday,
June 13, 2019, a request for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 98 printed in
part B of House Report 116–109 offered
by the gentleman from Indiana (Mr.
BANKS) had been postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
109 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 87 by Mr. GROTHMAN
of Wisconsin.
Amendment No. 89 by Mr. WALKER of
North Carolina.
Amendment No. 91 by Mr. PALMER of
Alabama.
Amendment No. 94 by Mr. ARRINGTON
of Texas.
Amendment No. 98 by Mr. BANKS of
Indiana.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the time for any electronic vote in this
series.
AMENDMENT NO. 87 OFFERED BY MR. GROTHMAN
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 131, noes 292,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 334]
AYES—131
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Walberg
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
Zeldin
NOES—292
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Armstrong
Axne
Baird
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
NOT VOTING—15
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
LaHood
Marchant
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Westerman
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. DEGETTE)
(during the vote). There is 1 minute re-
maining.
b 2154
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 89 OFFERED BY MR. WALKER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.123 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4753
June 18, 2019
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
WALKER) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 110, noes 315,
not voting 13, as follows:
[Roll No. 335]
AYES—110
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hudson
Huizenga
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Miller
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Steube
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Walberg
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
Wright
Young
NOES—315
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Armstrong
Axne
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—13
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Westerman
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2202
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 91 OFFERED BY MR. PALMER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. PALMER)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 184, noes 241,
not voting 13, as follows:
[Roll No. 336]
AYES—184
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—241
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.126 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4754 June 18, 2019
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—13
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Westerman
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2205
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 94 OFFERED BY MR. ARRINGTON
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 174, noes 251,
not voting 13, as follows:
[Roll No. 337]
AYES—174
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
NOES—251
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—13
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Doggett
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Westerman
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2209
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 98 OFFERED BY MR. BANKS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. BANKS)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.080 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4755
June 18, 2019
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 123, noes 303,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 338]
AYES—123
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Massie
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Timmons
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
Wright
NOES—303
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Armstrong
Axne
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—12
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Westerman
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2212
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
HORSFORD) having assumed the chair,
Ms. DEGETTE, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 2740) making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and related agencies for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes, had come to no res-
olution thereon.
DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR,
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 436 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 2740.
Will the gentlewoman from Colorado
(Ms. DEGETTE) kindly take the chair.
b 2215
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2740) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human
Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
with Ms. DEGETTE (Acting Chair) in
the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose earlier today,
a request for a recorded vote on amend-
ment No. 97 printed in part A of House
Report 116–111 offered by the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. BANKS) had
been postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part A of House Report 116–
111 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendments en bloc No. 1 by Mrs.
LOWEY of New York.
Amendment No. 2 by Mr. ALLEN of
Georgia.
Amendments en bloc No. 2 by Mr.
VISCLOSKY of Indiana.
Amendment No. 13 by Mr. LANGEVIN
of Rhode Island.
Amendment No. 15 by Mr. LANGEVIN
of Rhode Island.
Amendment No. 21 by Mr. BROWN of
Maryland.
Amendment No. 24 by Mr. AMASH of
Michigan.
Amendment No. 34 by Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
Amendment No. 38 by Mr. VISCLOSKY
of Indiana.
Amendment No. 40 by Mr. VISCLOSKY
of Indiana.
Amendment No. 44 by Mr. TED LIEU
of California.
Amendment No. 45 by Mr. GALLA-
GHER of Wisconsin.
Amendment No. 47 by Mr. GALLA-
GHER of Wisconsin.
Amendment No. 50 by Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER of Delaware.
Amendment No. 51 by Ms. JAYAPAL of
Washington.
Amendment No. 59 by Mr. CROW of
Colorado.
Amendment No. 61 by Mr. COX of
California.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the time for any electronic vote after
the first vote in this series.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.132 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4756 June 18, 2019
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC NO. 1 OFFERED BY MRS.
LOWEY OF NEW YORK
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendments en bloc offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
LOWEY) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendments en bloc.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ments en bloc.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 283, noes 144,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 339]
AYES—283
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Baird
Balderson
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Comer
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—144
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Ferguson
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gibbs
Gohmert
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Walden
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2218
So the en bloc amendments were
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. ALLEN
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 134, noes 293,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 340]
AYES—134
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cooper
Crawford
Crenshaw
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Marchant
Massie
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Timmons
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
Wright
Zeldin
NOES—293
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Armstrong
Axne
Baird
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.134 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4757
June 18, 2019
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2221
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR.
VISCLOSKY OF INDIANA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendments en bloc offered by
the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendments en bloc.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ments en bloc.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 381, noes 46,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 341]
AYES—381
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—46
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Cline
Cloud
Davidson (OH)
Duncan
Ferguson
Gooden
Gosar
Griffith
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Jordan
Marchant
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Norman
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Sensenbrenner
Smith (NE)
Steube
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wright
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Curtis
DeLauro
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2225
So the en bloc amendments were
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MR. LANGEVIN
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.093 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4758 June 18, 2019
LANGEVIN) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 355, noes 73,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 342]
AYES—355
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Womack
Young
Zeldin
NOES—73
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Bacon
Bishop (UT)
Bonamici
Brady
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Carter (GA)
Collins (GA)
Comer
Craig
Davidson (OH)
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Fortenberry
Fulcher
Gibbs
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guest
Harris
Hice (GA)
Hollingsworth
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Larsen (WA)
Lesko
Lipinski
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Luria
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Meuser
Moolenaar
Norcross
Norman
Omar
Palazzo
Payne
Pressley
Rice (SC)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Scott, Austin
Spanberger
Thornberry
Tlaib
Walberg
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2229
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 15 OFFERED BY MR. LANGEVIN
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
LANGEVIN) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 277, noes 151,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 343]
AYES—277
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.140 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4759
June 18, 2019
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Woodall
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—151
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Wright
Young
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2232
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 21 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 243, noes 183,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 344]
AYES—243
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—183
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—12
Abraham
Curtis
Flores
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Sablan
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2235
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 24 OFFERED BY MR. AMASH
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. AMASH)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.097 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4760 June 18, 2019
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 175, noes 253,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 345]
AYES—175
Adams
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Comer
Connolly
Correa
Courtney
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Estes
Evans
Foster
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallego
Gianforte
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hayes
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Horsford
Huffman
Hunter
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Jordan
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Luján
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Marchant
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Mullin
Nadler
Neal
Neguse
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pappas
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rose, John W.
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Rush
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sires
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (WA)
Speier
Stanton
Steube
Takano
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Vargas
Velázquez
Walker
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—253
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Cheney
Cisneros
Cleaver
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Cook
Cooper
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Delgado
Demings
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Dunn
Espaillat
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Hartzler
Heck
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (PA)
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Malinowski
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Napolitano
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pascrell
Pence
Peters
Peterson
Quigley
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Scalise
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Young
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2240
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. SERRANO, Mses. SANCHEZ,
and PLASKETT changed their vote
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 34, AS MODIFIED, OFFERED BY
MS. KUSTER OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment, as modified,
offered by the gentlewoman from New
Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER) on which fur-
ther proceedings were postponed and
on which the ayes prevailed by voice
vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 327, noes 101,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 346]
AYES—327
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Baird
Banks
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.146 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4761
June 18, 2019
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Yarmuth
NOES—101
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cheney
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Craig
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Ferguson
Fortenberry
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hudson
Huizenga
Johnson (OH)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McClintock
Meuser
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Smith (NE)
Steube
Thornberry
Timmons
Walberg
Walker
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2243
So the amendment, as modified, was
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 38 OFFERED BY MR. VISCLOSKY
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 389, noes 39,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 347]
AYES—389
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—39
Amash
Arrington
Bishop (UT)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Craig
Davidson (OH)
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Griffith
Grothman
Harris
Jordan
Lofgren
Marshall
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Meuser
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palmer
Peterson
Posey
Pressley
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Roy
Sensenbrenner
Tipton
Tlaib
Walker
Webster (FL)
Williams
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2247
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 40 OFFERED BY MR. VISCLOSKY
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.099 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4762 June 18, 2019
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 254, noes 174,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 348]
AYES—254
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—174
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2250
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 44 OFFERED BY MR. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from California (Mr. TED
LIEU) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 237, noes 191,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 349]
AYES—237
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.152 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4763
June 18, 2019
NOES—191
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peters
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2253
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 45 OFFERED BY MR. GALLAGHER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. GALLA-
GHER) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the noes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 203, noes 225,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 350]
AYES—203
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—225
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pappas
Pascrell
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2256
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 47 OFFERED BY MR. GALLAGHER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. GALLA-
GHER) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the noes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.102 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4764 June 18, 2019
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 192, noes 236,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 351]
AYES—192
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—236
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2259
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 50 OFFERED BY MS. BLUNT
ROCHESTER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Delaware (Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER) on which further
proceedings were postponed and on
which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 424, noes 3,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 352]
AYES—424
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.158 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4765
June 18, 2019
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—3
Arrington Davidson (OH) Harris
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
LaMalfa
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2302
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 51 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the noes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 138, noes 289,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 10, as
follows:
[Roll No. 353]
AYES—138
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Beyer
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brownley (CA)
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Courtney
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Hayes
Heck
Himes
Horsford
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Massie
Matsui
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rose (NY)
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schrier
Scott, David
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Smith (WA)
Speier
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Trahan
Vargas
Velázquez
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—289
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bera
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Casten (IL)
Chabot
Cheney
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Demings
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Malinowski
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Plaskett
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Scalise
Schneider
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Castro (TX)
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2306
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 59 OFFERED BY MR. CROW
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. CROW)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 277, noes 151,
not voting 10, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.105 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4766 June 18, 2019
[Roll No. 354]
AYES—277
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—151
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Doggett
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Roby
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Curtis
Gaetz
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting Chair (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2310
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 61 OFFERED BY MR. COX OF
CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from California (Mr. COX)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 404, noes 22,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 355]
AYES—404
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Pingree
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:46 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.109 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4767
June 18, 2019
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—22
Amash
Arrington
Bishop (UT)
Burchett
Davidson (OH)
Emmer
Gomez
Harris
Hunter
Jordan
Marchant
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Norman
Phillips
Posey
Ratcliffe
Roby
Scott, Austin
Webster (FL)
Wright
NOT VOTING—12
Abraham
Curtis
Frankel
Gaetz
Garcı́a (IL)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Holding
Moulton
Radewagen
Waltz
Yoho
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 2316
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Chair, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
HORSFORD) having assumed the chair,
Ms. DEGETTE, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that the Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 2740) making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and related agencies for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes, had come to no res-
olution thereon.
f
CELEBRATING NATIONAL
POLLINATORS WEEK
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
National Pollinators Week.
It is a time when we encourage pro-
tection of pollinator species—such as
honeybees, native bees, birds, bats, and
butterflies—as essential partners of
farmers and ranchers in producing
food.
These pollinators are vital to keeping
items like fruits, nuts, and vegetables
in our diet, and healthy pollinator pop-
ulations are crucial to the continued
economic well-being of rural America
and the U.S. economy.
Worldwide, approximately 1,000
plants grown for food, beverage, fiber,
spices, and medicines need to be polli-
nated by animals to produce the goods
we depend upon.
The number of honeybee hives has
declined from 6 million in the 1940s to
about 2.5 million today, and we need to
increase these habitats.
American farmers have no better
friend than the honeybee, and more
than one third of the U.S. crops require
pollination, including blueberries,
chocolate, coffee, melons, peaches,
pumpkins, vanilla, and almonds.
Mr. Speaker, as one who has had a
beehive in my backyard, I fully support
efforts to raise awareness and keep our
pollinators buzzing for generations to
come.
f
RECOGNIZING VETERANS TRAVIS
COYLE AND MARK LAMBERT
(Mr. CLINE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, America
would not be the greatest Nation in the
world today without the valiant effort
of our military personnel.
The reason we are the greatest coun-
try in the world is because we have the
strongest, most dedicated men and
women on the frontlines defending our
freedoms.
Unfortunately, many soldiers come
home with scars: some visible, some
not.
Today, I want to take the oppor-
tunity to recognize two veterans from
Virginia’s Sixth District who started
an organization called the Living
Waters Farm Initiative.
Travis Coyle and Mark Lambert re-
turned home from the war in Afghani-
stan and began experiencing symptoms
of posttraumatic stress disorder.
After receiving help through the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, equine
therapy, their faith, and realizing that
sufferers from PTSD do not have to
bear this burden alone, Travis and
Mark decided they would like to pro-
vide similar support to other service-
members.
The Living Waters Farm Initiative
was started to provide those living
with PTSD a supportive community
that can stand together and learn from
others with firsthand experience.
They already have horses and goats
at Living Waters Farm and hope to add
a garden soon.
As PTSD Awareness Month begins, I
want to thank Mr. Coyle and Mr. LAM-
BERT for their service and dedication to
other veterans.
f
MODERNIZE THE TRUCK FLEET
WEEK
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight this week as the
first-ever Modernize the Truck Fleet
Week.
Currently, the average age of heavy-
duty trucks on the road is nearly 10
years old. That is a decade’s worth of
technology and improvements that
have effectively been sidelined.
One big reason for this is the 12 per-
cent Federal excise tax, known as the
FET, on the sale of most heavy-duty
new trucks.
This tax was implemented over 100
years ago as a means of paying for
World War I and is now the highest per-
centage tax Congress imposes on any
product.
It can tack on an additional $20,000 to
the price of a new truck, which most
truck owners simply cannot afford.
This severely outdated tax discour-
ages the purchase of newer, safer, more
fuel-efficient, environmentally friendly
trucks.
It is time to get rid of this tax. That
is why I have introduced H.R. 2381, the
Modern, Clean, and Safe Trucks Act,
which repeals the FET.
The FET maybe made sense when it
was implemented 100 years ago, but,
just like the trucks that were designed
in 1917, it is no longer viable in the
modern world.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan bill.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 24
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 0109
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. DESAULNIER) at 1 o’clock
and 9 minutes a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.106 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4768 June 18, 2019
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 3055, COMMERCE, JUSTICE,
SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGEN-
CIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020;
RELATING TO CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 2740, DEPARTMENTS OF
LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES, AND EDUCATION, AND
RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020; AND PROVIDING
FOR PROCEEDINGS DURING THE
PERIOD FROM JUNE 28, 2019
THROUGH JULY 8, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–119) on the
resolution (H. Res. 445) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3055)
making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; relating to con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 2740) mak-
ing appropriations for the Departments
of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; and pro-
viding for proceedings during the pe-
riod from June 28, 2019, through July 8,
2019, which was referred to the House
Calendar and ordered to be printed.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TODAY
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 10 a.m. today for morning-hour
debate and noon for legislative busi-
ness.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 299. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify presumptions relating
to the exposure of certain veterans who
served in the vicinity of the Republic of
Vietnam, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 1 o’clock and 11 minutes
a.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until today, Wednes-
day, June 19, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the first quarter
of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Robert Aderholt ............................................... 2/16 2/17 Germany ................................................ Euro 550.72 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 550.72
2/17 2/18 France ................................................... Euro 792.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 792.00
2/18 2/20 Cyprus ................................................... Euro 548.89 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 548.89
2/20 2/23 Austria .................................................. Euro 1,684.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,684.21
Hon. Sheila Jackson Lee .......................................... 2/16 2/17 Germany ................................................ Euro 523.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 523.64
2/17 2/18 France ................................................... Euro 792.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 792.00
2/18 2/20 Cyprus ................................................... Euro 487.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 487.12
2/20 2/23 Austria .................................................. Euro 1,684.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,684.21
Hon. Gwen Moore ..................................................... 2/16 2/17 Germany ................................................ Euro 523.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 523.64
2/17 2/18 France ................................................... Euro 792.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 792.00
2/18 2/20 Cyprus ................................................... Euro 487.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 487.12
2/20 2/23 Austria .................................................. Euro 1,684.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,684.21
Hon. Steve Cohen .................................................... 2/16 2/17 Germany ................................................ Euro 550.72 .................... 5,823.63 .................... .................... .................... 6,374.35
2/17 2/19 France ................................................... Euro 1,409.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,409.00
Hon. Richard Hudson .............................................. 2/19 2/23 Austria .................................................. Euro 2,260.84 .................... 13,113.13 .................... .................... .................... 15,373.97
Alex Johnson ............................................................ 3/24 3/27 Austria .................................................. Euro 986.22 .................... 13,131.63 .................... .................... .................... 14,117.85
Mischa Thompson .................................................... 3/18 3/23 Belgium ................................................ Euro 2,169.00 .................... 13,996.93 .................... .................... .................... 16,165.93
Erika Schlager ......................................................... 3/18 3/23 Belgium ................................................ Euro 2,169.00 .................... 12,684.93 .................... .................... .................... 14,853.93
Paul Massaro ........................................................... 3/16 3/22 France ................................................... Euro 2,926.00 .................... 8,847.43 .................... .................... .................... 11,773.43
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 23,020.54 .................... 67,597.68 .................... .................... .................... 90,618.22
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS, May 30, 2019.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 3253, Empowering Beneficiaries, Ensuring Access, and Strengthening
Accountability Act of 2019, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 3253
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ...................................................................................................................................................................... 202 ¥23 37 278 398 145 16 ¥195 ¥348 ¥410 792 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1325. A letter from the Director, Issuances
Staff, Food Safety and Inspection Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Eligibility of Hon-
duras To Export Poultry Products to the
United States [Docket No.: FSIS-2017-0026]
(RIN: 0583-AD58) received June 13, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Agriculture.
1326. A letter from the Deputy Secretary,
National Institute of Food and Agriculture,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JN7.170 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4769
June 18, 2019
Department of Agriculture, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Hispanic-Serving
Agricultural Colleges and Universities
(HSACU) Certification Process (RIN: 0524-
AA39) received June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ag-
riculture.
1327. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of General Rob-
ert B. Neller, United States Marine Corps,
and his advancement to the grade of general
on the retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as
amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b));
(110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
1328. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Michael G. Dana, United States Ma-
rine Corps, and his advancement to the grade
of lieutenant general on the retired list, pur-
suant to 10 U.S.C. 1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-
513, Sec. 112 (as amended by Public Law 104-
106, Sec. 502(b)); (110 Stat. 293); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
1329. A letter from the Deputy Secretary,
Securities and Exchange Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s interim final rule
— Amendments to the Timing Requirements
for Filing Reports on Form N-Port [Release
No.: IC-33384; File No.: S7-02-19] (RIN: 3235-
AL42) received June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
1330. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Securities and Exchange Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s final rule —
Amendment to Single Issuer Exemption for
Broker-Dealers [Release No.: 34-86073; File
No.: S7-21-18] (RIN: 3235-AM47) received June
13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
1331. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final regulations — Outdated Regula-
tions-Expanding Opportunity Through Qual-
ity Charter Schools Program (CSP)-Grants
for Credit Enhancement for Charter School
Facilities (RIN: 1810-AB56) received June 13,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
1332. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Title I--Improving the
Academic Achievement of the Disadvantaged
and General Provisions; Technical Amend-
ments [Docket ID: ED-2018-OESE-0106] (RIN:
1810-AB47) (RIN: 1810-AB55) received June 13,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
1333. A letter from the Division Director,
Division of Policy, Legislation and Regula-
tion, Employment and Training Administra-
tion, Department of Labor, transmitting the
Department’s interim final rule — Labor
Certification Process for Temporary Em-
ployment in the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands (CW-1 Workers)
[DOL Docket No.: ETA-2019-0001] (RIN: 1205-
AB92) received June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
1334. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — 24-Epibrassinolide; Exemp-
tion from the Requirement of a Tolerance
[EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0487; FRL-9993-15] re-
ceived June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1335. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Illinois;
Infrastructure SIP Requirements for the 2012
PM2.5 NAAQS; Interstate Transport [EPA-
R05-OAR-2017-0583; FRL-9995-30-Region 5] re-
ceived June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1336. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Bacillus amyloliquefaciens
subspecies plantarum strain FZB42; Exemp-
tion From the Requirement of a Tolerance
[EPA-HQ-OPP-2014-0560; FRL-9994-90] re-
ceived June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1337. A letter from the Chairman, Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, transmitting the
Commission’s report titled ‘‘Report to Con-
gress on Abnormal Occurrences: Fiscal Year
2018’’, pursuant to Sec. 208 of the Energy Re-
organization Act of 1974, as amended (Public
Law 93-438), and the Federal Reports Elimi-
nation and Sunset Act of 1995 (Public Law
104-66); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1338. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Industry and Analysis, Bureau of Industry
and Security, Department of Commerce,
transmitting the Department’s interim final
rule — Implementation of New Commerce
Section 232 Exclusions Portal [Docket No.:
180227217-8217-03] (RIN: 0694-AH55) received
June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
1339. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel, Department of Agriculture, trans-
mitting nine (9) notifications of a nomina-
tion or action on nomination, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112
Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
1340. A letter from the Attorney — Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Navigation and Navigable
Waters, and Shipping; Technical, Organiza-
tional, and Conforming Amendments [Dock-
et No.: USCG-2018-0874) received June 13,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
1341. A letter from the Senior Attorney, Of-
fice of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Ad-
ministration, transmitting the Administra-
tion’s final rule — Training, Qualification,
and Oversight for Safety-Related Railroad
Employees [Docket No.: FRA-2009-0033, No-
tice No.: 6] (RIN: 2130-AC70) received June 13,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
1342. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Ad-
ministration, transmitting the Administra-
tion’s final rule — System Safety Program
[Docket No.: FRA-2011-0060, Notice No.: 9]
(RIN: 2130-AC79) received June 13, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1343. A letter from the Regulations Devel-
opment Coordinator, Office of Regulations
Policy and Management, Office of the Sec-
retary (00REG), Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Release of Information from Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs’ Records (RIN: 2900-
AQ27) received June 13, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
1344. A letter from the Program Specialist,
Office of Regulation Policy and Manage-
ment, Office of the Secretary (00REG), De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Prohibition of
Interment or Memorialization of Persons
Who Have Been Convicted of Federal or
State Capital Crimes or Certain Sex Offenses
(RIN: 2900-AQ36) received June 13, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
1345. A communication from the President
of the United States, transmitting a notifi-
cation that the Trade Representative has
been directed to pursue negotiation of agree-
ments to address the threatened impairment
of the national security with respect to im-
ported automobiles and certain automobile
parts from the European Union, Japan, and
any other country the Trade Representative
deems appropriate, pursuant to 19 U.S.C.
1862(c)(2); Public Law 87-794, Sec. 232 (Public
Law 100-418, Sec. 1501(a)(3); (102 Stat. 1258) (H.
Doc. No. 116—40); to the Committee on Ways
and Means and ordered to be printed.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2109. A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to authorize the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, in awarding a
contract for the procurement of goods or
services, to give a preference to offerors that
employ veterans (Rept. 116–117). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2196. A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to reduce the credit
hour requirement for the Edith Nourse Rog-
ers STEM Scholarship program of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs (Rept. 116–118).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. MCGOVERN: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 445. A resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3055) mak-
ing appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes; relat-
ing to consideration of the bill (H.R. 2740)
making appropriations for the Departments
of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and related agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes; and providing for proceedings dur-
ing the period from June 28, 2019, through
July 8, 2019 (Rept. 116–119). Referred to the
House Calendar.
CONSENSUS CALENDAR
Under clause 7 of rule XV, the fol-
lowing motion was filed with the Clerk:
Motion No. 4, June 18, 2019 by Ms. Lof-
gren on H.R. 1044.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:58 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18JN7.000 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4770 June 18, 2019
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 3298. A bill to increase entitlement
funding for child care; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself and Mr. LEVIN of Michigan):
H.R. 3299. A bill to permit legally married
same-sex couples to amend their filing sta-
tus for income tax returns outside the stat-
ute of limitations, to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to clarify that all pro-
visions shall apply to legally married same-
sex couples in the same manner as other
married couples, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. NEAL:
H.R. 3300. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide tax relief for
workers and families, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 3301. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring
provisions, to provide disaster relief, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. FINKENAUER (for herself, Mr.
KIND, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
LAHOOD, and Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama):
H.R. 3302. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve the accuracy
of geographic adjustment factors under the
Medicare program and to permanently ex-
tend certain adjustments to such factors for
certain localities, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. MCADAMS,
and Mr. LAMBORN):
H.R. 3303. A bill to establish the Commis-
sion on the State of U.S. Olympics and
Paralympics; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. CLINE,
Mr. BURCHETT, and Ms. DEAN):
H.R. 3304. A bill to exempt for an addi-
tional 4-year period, from the application of
the means-test presumption of abuse under
chapter 7, qualifying members of reserve
components of the Armed Forces and mem-
bers of the National Guard who, after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, are called to active duty or
to perform a homeland defense activity for
not less than 90 days; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mrs. LURIA (for herself, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. WEXTON, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. BEYER, Mr. WITTMAN, and
Mr. CLINE):
H.R. 3305. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia Beach,
Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith Cox Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Mrs. LURIA (for herself, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. LAMB, and Mr. WITT-
MAN):
H.R. 3306. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to establish advanced nuclear goals,
provide for a versatile, reactor-based fast
neutron source, make available high-assay,
low-enriched uranium for research, develop-
ment, and demonstration of advanced nu-
clear reactor concepts, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Energy and Commerce, Oversight
and Reform, and Armed Services, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
BEYER, Ms. DELBENE, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. SOTO, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. SAN
NICOLAS, and Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois):
H.R. 3307. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for payments to
possessions of the United States related to
the application of the earned income tax
credit in such possessions; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
LANGEVIN, and Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 3308. A bill to amend the American In-
novation and Competitiveness Act and the
National Science Foundation Act of 2002 to
incorporate art and design into certain
STEM education programs; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology,
and in addition to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 3309. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to report on vulnerabilities from sea
level rise to certain military installations
located outside the continental United
States; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
H.R. 3310. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Homeland Security to conduct a study on
how to improve training and support for
local emergency response providers in areas
with high concentrations of covered chem-
ical facilities in how to respond to a terrorist
attack on a chemical facility; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CLINE (for himself, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. COLLINS of Georgia,
and Mr. COHEN):
H.R. 3311. A bill to amend chapter 11 of
title 11, United States Code, to address reor-
ganization of small businesses, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself and
Mr. VARGAS):
H.R. 3312. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide for an exten-
sion of the application period for certain
aliens present in the United States for ad-
justment of status; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina (for
herself and Ms. SPEIER):
H.R. 3313. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of De-
fense to develop guidelines and resources on
the acquisition or licensing of intellectual
property, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. BIGGS, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. GALLEGO, Mrs.
LESKO, and Mr. STANTON):
H.R. 3314. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1750 McCulloch Boulevard North in Lake
Havasu City, Arizona, as the ‘‘Lake Havasu
City Combat Veterans Memorial Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself, Ms. LEE
of California, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. POCAN, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. HORSFORD, and Ms.
MENG):
H.R. 3315. A bill to establish universal
child care and early learning programs; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for him-
self and Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 3316. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against
tax for neighborhood revitalization, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas:
H.R. 3317. A bill to permit the Scipio A.
Jones Post Office in Little Rock, Arkansas,
to accept and display a portrait of Scipio A.
Jones, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania (for
himself and Mr. ROGERS of Alabama):
H.R. 3318. A bill to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to establish
a task force to conduct an analysis of emerg-
ing and potential future threats to transpor-
tation security, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 3319. A bill to streamline the applica-
tion process for H-2A employers and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
ROGERS of Alabama, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Mr. PAYNE):
H.R. 3320. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to authorize the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security to implement
certain requirements for information relat-
ing to supply chain risk, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, and Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 3321. A bill to amend the STEM Edu-
cation Act of 2015 to require the National
Science Foundation to promote the integra-
tion of art and design in STEM education,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. LOEBSACK:
H.R. 3322. A bill to provide for grants for
energy efficiency improvements and renew-
able energy improvements at public school
facilities; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself and Mr. CLY-
BURN):
H.R. 3323. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal certain rules re-
lated to the determination of unrelated busi-
ness taxable income, to provide that reim-
bursements for costs of using passenger
automobiles for charitable organizations are
excluded from gross income, to make the
employer credit for paid family and medical
leave available to tax-exempt eligible em-
ployers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. MAST (for himself and Mr.
POSEY):
H.R. 3324. A bill to modify the project for
Central and Southern Florida to include pub-
lic health considerations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. MCEACHIN (for himself, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. KIM, Mrs. BROOKS of Indi-
ana, Mr. BRINDISI, and Mr. KUSTOFF
of Tennessee):
H.R. 3325. A bill to require the Federal
Communications Commission to provide evi-
dence of certain robocall violations to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:58 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18JN7.100 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4771
June 18, 2019
Attorney General; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr. MAST,
and Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 3326. A bill to provide that a former
Member of Congress or former senior Con-
gressional employee who receives compensa-
tion as a lobbyist shall not be eligible for re-
tirement benefits or certain other Federal
benefits; to the Committee on House Admin-
istration, and in addition to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 3327. A bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to require that direct-to-
consumer television advertisements for pre-
scription drugs and biological products in-
clude the list price of such drugs and prod-
ucts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and Mr.
CARBAJAL):
H.R. 3328. A bill to limit the fees charged
and collected from applicants for naturaliza-
tion and related benefits based on poverty,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. COOK, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. VARGAS, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. HILL of
California, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. HUN-
TER, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. CORREA, Ms.
LEE of California, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. COSTA,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. COX of California, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. GOMEZ,
Ms. BASS, Mr. CALVERT, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. BERA,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
LAMALFA, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. PORTER,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, Ms. WATERS, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. MCCARTHY, and
Ms. PELOSI):
H.R. 3329. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
5186 Benito Street in Montclair, California,
as the ‘‘Paul Eaton Post Office Building’’; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. PA-
NETTA, and Ms. DELBENE):
H.R. 3330. A bill to set minimum standards
for tax return preparers; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself and Mrs.
LURIA):
H.R. 3331. A bill to restrict security assist-
ance to Lebanon, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. KEATING (for himself and Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania):
H. Res. 446. A resolution reaffirming Ger-
man-American friendship and cooperation
under the Wunderbar Together-Germany and
the U.S. initiative; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
By Ms. NORTON (for herself and Mr.
SABLAN):
H. Res. 447. A resolution recognizing and
commending the SummerSet DC Music Se-
ries and its performers and partners for bene-
fiting the District of Columbia, District of
Columbia regional residents, and visitors to
the Nation’s capital; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 3298.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: to provide for
the common Defence and general Welfare of
the United States.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 3299.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Sections 7 & 8 of Article I of the United
States Constitution and Amendment XVI of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. NEAL:
H.R. 3300.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Sections 7 & 8 of Article I of the United
States Constitution and Amendment XVI of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 3301.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Sections 7 & 8 of Article I of the United
States Constitution and Amendment XVI of
the United States Constitution.
By Ms. FINKENAUER:
H.R. 3302.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. DeGETTE:
H.R. 3303.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 3304.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 3305.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitution of the United States, Article
I, Section 8
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 3306.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitution of the United States, Article
I, Section 8
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 3307.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 3308.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 3309.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
H.R. 3310.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. CLINE:
H.R. 3311.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4 of the United
States Constitution, in that the legislation
concerns the establishment of a uniform law
on bankruptcies throughout the United
States; Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the
United States Constitution, in that the legis-
lation exercises legislative power granted to
Congress by that clause ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof;’’
and Article III, Section 1, Clause 1, Sentence
1, and Section 2, Clause 1 of the Constitu-
tion, in that the legislation defines or affects
judicial powers and cases that are subject to
legislation by Congress.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 3312.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power [. . .] To establish a
uniform Rule of Naturalization . . . ’’
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 3313.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution, which allows Congress ‘‘to
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or any Department or Officer
thereof’’ and;
clause 14 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution, which provides Congress with
the power ‘‘to make rules for the govern-
ment and regulation of the land and naval
forces’’
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 3314.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 7 of the United
States Constitution, known as the Postal
Clause, empowers Congress: To establish
Post Offices and post Roads.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 7. In addition,
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2, provides: The
Congress shall have Power to dispose of and
make all needful Rules and Regulations re-
specting the Territory or other Property be-
longing to the United States; and nothing in
this Constitution shall be so construed as to
Prejudice any Claims of the United States,
or of any particular State.
The Postal Clause, an express Constitu-
tional duty imposed upon Congress, carries
with it the right to establish post offices,
and with that right, is the concomitant right
to operate, name, design, refurbish, and staff
such post offices. This bill simply seeks to
name a post office. The Property Clause fur-
ther buttresses the plenary right of Congress
to manage its properties, including imple-
menting ‘‘needful’’ rules and regulations,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:58 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18JN7.100 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4772 June 18, 2019
which would include the ability to name a
federal building.
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 3315.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 3316.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas:
H.R. 3317.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 7 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish post offices
and post roads
By Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 3318.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18—The Con-
gress shall have Power ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 3319.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution, which provides
Congress with the ability to enact legisla-
tion necessary and proper to effectuate its
purposes in taxing and spending.
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 3320.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 8: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 3321.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LOEBSACK:
H.R. 3322.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 3323.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution.
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 3324.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Necessary and Proper Clause in Arti-
cle I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. MCEACHIN:
H.R. 3325.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 3326.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Paragraph 1: ‘‘The
Congress shall have Power . . . To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.’’
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 3327.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 3328.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 3329.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 3330.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 3331.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 40: Mr. LEWIS, Ms. DEAN, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 95: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 117: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 147: Mr. ADERHOLT.
H.R. 153: Mr. ADERHOLT.
H.R. 188: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 233: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 275: Mr. GALLEGO and Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER.
H.R. 284: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 307: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi and Ms.
PINGREE.
H.R. 372: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 397: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
HOULAHAN, and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 510: Mr. POSEY, Mr. CARBAJAL, and
Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 528: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 555: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 566: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 576: Ms. Barragán.
H.R. 586: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 601: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 613: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 647: Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. BOST, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. HURD of Texas,
and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 649: Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. CORREA, and
Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 655: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 663: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 683: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 720: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 724: Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 726: Ms. FINKENAUER and Mr.
CLEAVER.
H.R. 728: Ms. DEGETTE and Ms. DAVIDS of
Kansas.
H.R. 737: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 748: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 749: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 751: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 763: Mr. NEGUSE and Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 770: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 776: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER and Mrs.
AXNE.
H.R. 808: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 865: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 898: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 913: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 945: Mr. ROUDA, Mrs. BEATTY, and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H.R. 946: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 948: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 955: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1001: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1002: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1005: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1011: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 1018: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1042: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1043: Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. ARMSTRONG,
and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 1044: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 1049: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 1058: Mr. GREEN of Texas and Mr. COL-
LINS of New York.
H.R. 1073: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1083: Ms. TLAIB and Mr. LAWSON of
Florida.
H.R. 1109: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. ROUDA, and
Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1133: Ms. TLAIB, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr.
QUIGLEY.
H.R. 1135: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1140: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1146: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1154: Mr. PAYNE and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1171: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.R. 1174: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1175: Mr. GAETZ and Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1220: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1225: Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. FINKENAUER,
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. CAS-
TRO of Texas, Mr. SOTO, Mr. HUNTER, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. BRADY, Mr. COURTNEY,
and Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 1255: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 1256: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1266: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1294: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 1309: Mr. KILMER and Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1326: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1327: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Mr. WALKER.
H.R. 1364: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. YARMUTH,
and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 1373: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1377: Ms. FRANKEL and Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1379: Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. FUDGE, and Mr.
CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1380: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1395: Ms. WILD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:30 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.062 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4773
June 18, 2019
H.R. 1406: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1407: Mr. CHABOT, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr.
HARDER of California, Mr. CRAWFORD, and
Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1441: Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
H.R. 1444: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1446: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 1450: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mrs. TORRES of California, and Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1497: Mr. MORELLE and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 1507: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1530: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1534: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1568: Mr. CRIST and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1570: Mr. LONG, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
HAGEDORN, and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1597: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1605: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 1618: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1622: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1632: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. SHER-
MAN.
H.R. 1641: Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
WALBERG, and Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1651: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 1652: Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Mr. RUSH, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1679: Mr. OLSON and Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 1682: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1683: Mr. DUNCAN and Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 1692: Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TRONE, and Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1707: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1709: Ms. WEXTON, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. CUMMINGS, and
Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1723: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1730: Mr. GALLAGHER and Ms. JACKSON
LEE.
H.R. 1748: Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. RUIZ, Mr.
MCEACHIN, and Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 1753: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1762: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
MEADOWS, and Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 1763: Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. MENG, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
DELGADO, Ms. FINKENAUER, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
DOGGETT, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mrs. MILLER,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. NADLER, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
CUELLAR, Mr. JEFFRIES, and Mr.
O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 1765: Mr. ENGEL and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1767: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1769: Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 1771: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 1784: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1824: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 1830: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 1837: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 1846: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1850: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 1854: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1865: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mrs. TRAHAN, Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER, and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1882: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 1898: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 1903: Mr. COX of California and Mr.
HURD of Texas.
H.R. 1915: Ms. FINKENAUER, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. COMER, Mrs. BEATTY, and Ms. FUDGE.
H.R. 1923: Mr. STIVERS, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
BALDERSON, and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1967: Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1970: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1975: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1976: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1981: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2000: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 2009: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 2013: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 2015: Mrs. MCBATH and Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 2051: Ms. STEVENS and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2056: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2062: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 2074: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2086: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 2089: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2091: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 2117: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2124: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2137: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. FERGUSON, and
Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 2146: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 2151: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2156: Mr. COHEN and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 2161: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2164: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2178: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
STAUBER, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, and Mr.
LAMALFA.
H.R. 2206: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 2211: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mrs. MURPHY, Miss
RICE of New York, and Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 2218: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 2229: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 2232: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2236: Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 2244: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2256: Mr. KHANNA, Ms. PORTER, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
Ms. MATSUI, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
ROUDA, and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 2258: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2271: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2283: Ms. STEVENS and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2294: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 2298: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 2315: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 2321: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2327: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SHERMAN,
and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2328: Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. NADLER, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
STIVERS, and Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2349: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2350: Mr. SCHNEIDER and Mr. PERL-
MUTTER.
H.R. 2355: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN.
H.R. 2368: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2381: Mr. HAGEDORN and Mr. SMITH of
Nebraska.
H.R. 2382: Mr. MORELLE, Mrs. LOWEY, and
Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2384: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2386: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2405: Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
WELCH, and Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 2415: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2420: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. COX of California,
and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 2421: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2424: Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. MATSUI, and
Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 2433: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2441: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2442: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2466: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER.
H.R. 2467: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2468: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. RUSH,
and Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 2471: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2474: Mrs. TORRES of California and
Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 2478: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 2489: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2498: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 2501: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2507: Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. WATKINS, Miss
RICE of New York, and Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 2508: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 2568: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2577: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2594: Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. RASKIN,
and Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 2615: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 2616: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2623: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2626: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 2653: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2680: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 2681: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2682: Mr. LUCAS, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2687: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2708: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2742: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2747: Ms. CASTOR of Florida and Ms.
WILD.
H.R. 2748: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2763: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2770: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 2771: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 2777: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2812: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 2825: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2829: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 2831: Ms. CRAIG, MS. DEAN, and Mr.
MORELLE.
H.R. 2847: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2853: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 2854: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2858: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 2859: Mr. MCCLINTOCK and Mr.
BURCHETT.
H.R. 2869: Mr. RATCLIFFE.
H.R. 2875: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 2896: Mr. STIVERS, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
FOSTER, and Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2909: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2912: Mr. ESPAILLAT and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN.
H.R. 2913: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2922: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2931: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. CRIST, and
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 2969: Mr. POSEY and Ms. WILSON of
Florida.
H.R. 2975: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. VARGAS,
and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2979: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2988: Mrs. LESKO, Mr. MCCLINTOCK,
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. COOK,
Mr. LAMALFA, and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 3006: Mr. LAHOOD and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3018: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 3026: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. ENGEL, and
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 3040: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3077: Mr. PANETTA, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. BUCSHON, Mrs. BEATTY,
and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3082: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Ms. SPEIER, and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 3086: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3094: Ms. SHALALA and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 3106: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3116: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 3123: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 3125: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 3126: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 3133: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:30 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.083 H18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4774 June 18, 2019
H.R. 3137: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Mr. HIMES, Mr. NEGUSE, and Mr.
SARBANES.
H.R. 3149: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 3153: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. STE-
VENS, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, and Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 3175: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 3183: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. STAUBER,
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. KIND, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
LONG, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, and Ms.
UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 3190: Ms. OMAR, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. RASKIN, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3192: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, MR. ROUDA, and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 3195: Mr. HORSFORD, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. COHEN, Ms. SHALALA, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. GABBARD, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. LEVIN
of Michigan, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
COURTNEY, and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3203: Mr. TONKO and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3208: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3234: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3237: Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 3248: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 3252: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. HOULAHAN,
Mr. SIRES, and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 3254: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3265: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 3267: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 3273: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 3274: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi.
H.R. 3280: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3282: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 3284: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr.
O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 3289: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 3297: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.J. Res. 20: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama and
Mr. FULCHER.
H.J. Res. 32: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.J. Res. 59: Mr. POSEY, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
and Mr. TONKO.
H.J. Res. 62: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. BUCSHON and Mr. JOHN-
SON of South Dakota.
H. Con. Res. 48: Ms. ADAMS, Ms. FUDGE, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. CLAY, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. CLYBURN,
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. BEATTY, and Ms.
WILSON of Florida.
H. Res. 33: Ms. SHERRILL.
H. Res. 49: Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 60: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H. Res. 189: Mr. COOPER and Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 230: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H. Res. 255: Mr. WALTZ.
H. Res. 257: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H. Res. 259: Mr. GUEST, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
COOK, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. WEBER
of Texas, Mr. RUSH, Mr. STEWART, Mr. SHER-
MAN, Mr. LAMBORN, and Mr. MAST.
H. Res. 285: Ms. DELBENE, Mr. AGUILAR,
Mrs. LESKO, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
BERGMAN, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. SOTO, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, and Mr. LONG.
H. Res. 307: Mr. MEADOWS.
H. Res. 371: Mr. MCEACHIN.
H. Res. 374: Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. TIPTON,
Mr. COLE, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. GRAVES of Geor-
gia, Mr. MOOLENAAR, and Mr. HUIZENGA.
H. Res. 402: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 432: Mr. CURTIS, Ms. BASS, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. TLAIB, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H. Res. 441: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. MEADOWS, Ms.
MENG, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. SCHNEIDER, and
Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. Res. 442: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 443: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. WEBSTER of
Florida, Mrs. MURPHY, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. WALTZ.
H. Res. 444: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BEYER, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CROW, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. FOSTER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms.
LEE of California, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SHERMAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. COHEN, and Mr.
RUSH.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
31. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
TX, relative to urging Congress to enact leg-
islation that would prohibit any employer —
including the Federal government, a State
government, or a local unit of government —
from inquiring about previous salaries from
prior employers, or about present salary
from a present employer, paid to someone
who is currently applying for employment
elsewhere; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:58 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN7.088 H18JNPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S3631
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 2019 No. 102
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, our help in ages past
and hope for years to come, we honor
Your Name. Bless our lawmakers with
Your peace, freeing them from anxi-
eties and fears as You give them wis-
dom to be strong and courageous. As
they trust in the unfolding of Your
powerful providence, direct their steps.
Lord, fill their darkness with light,
their sorrow with joy, their mistakes
with forgiveness, and their doubts with
certainty. Hasten the day when justice
will roll down like waters and right-
eousness like a mighty stream.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
f
PROTECTING OLDER WORKERS
AGAINST DISCRIMINATION ACT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
today is the 10th anniversary of the Su-
preme Court decision in Gross v. FBL
Financial Services.
The Court ruled that employees who
face age discrimination have to meet a
higher standard of proof than workers
who face discrimination based on any
other factor. This case involving Iowan
Jack Gross affected employment dis-
crimination litigation across the entire
country, and sent the message to em-
ployers that age discrimination is OK.
I hope the Senate acts on the Pro-
tecting Older Workers Against Dis-
crimination Act to correct this injus-
tice and restore fairness to our Na-
tion’s senior workforce. I happen to be
the sponsor of that legislation.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
IRAN
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
for years American administrations of
both parties have properly labeled Iran
as the world’s most active state spon-
sor of terrorism. This assessment is
based on the cold hard facts of
Tehran’s behavior.
Iran’s support for terrorism knows
few bounds, sectarian or geographic.
Iran has provided support to Sunni,
Shia, and secular terrorists. It has con-
ducted or sponsored attacks around the
world, including a plot right here in
Washington, during the Obama admin-
istration, to blow up a local restaurant
and kill the Saudi Ambassador to the
United States.
We know that Tehran is responsible
for the deaths of hundreds of American
servicemembers in Iraq and Afghani-
stan—Americans murdered by Iran’s
proxies. So while it should be shocking
that Iran is now conducting more at-
tacks against civilian shipping vessels
in international waters, unfortunately,
it really isn’t all that shocking. This is
the kind of behavior we have witnessed
over the years.
Until recently, the United States
spent years failing to hold Iran suffi-
ciently accountable for its terrorism,
proxies, and ‘‘gray zone’’ tactics.
Tehran was emboldened to tread all
over international law.
Now things are different, and Iran’s
corrupt, moribund economy is feeling
the pressure of U.S. sanctions. So it is
not surprising that the mullahs now re-
sort to their favorite tool—violence.
The President has said he does not
seek conflict with Iran, and neither
does the Senate. Nevertheless, the
risks of a conflict are real. But make
no mistake. They are being driven by
Tehran’s decision to resort to violence,
and that includes what the Secretary
of State has described as a ‘‘blatant as-
sault’’ on international shipping,
threatening the freedom of navigation
in international waters.
Tehran must not be rewarded for ter-
ror and intimidation. The United
States and our partners need to stand
firm and apply concerted, coordinated
diplomatic and economic pressure until
Tehran changes its behavior.
Acting Secretary Shanahan, at the
request of his military commanders,
has ordered additional forces to the
Middle East for purposes of defense and
deterrence. As he made clear when an-
nouncing this deployment, the United
States does not seek conflict with Iran.
I support these prudent efforts to re-
spond to Iranian intimidation. Defen-
sive military deployments will help us
to protect American interests in the
region and deter Iranian aggression. I
encourage the administration to con-
tinue working closely with our part-
ners across the globe to encourage
Iran’s leaders to cease their aggression.
I hope Iran’s leaders will listen to the
demands of their people, who continue
to protest against the stifling
authoritarianism of the Islamic Repub-
lic for a better, more prosperous, more
peaceful life.
I also appreciate the administration’s
efforts to keep Congress apprised of the
latest intelligence, deployments, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.000 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3632 June 18, 2019
diplomatic efforts. I understand com-
mittee staff received a classified brief-
ing just yesterday. I look forward to
hearing from the State Department’s
top career diplomat at the Republican
lunch today. I hope my colleagues
across the aisle rethink their decision
to turn down his offer to brief them. I
understand the administration will be
sending up interagency teams this
week to brief the oversight committees
in a classified setting, as well.
For our part, the Senate will con-
sider several measures in the coming
days that will directly impact our pres-
ence and influence in this troubled re-
gion, including arms sales to key re-
gional partners, as well as the NDAA. I
urge every one of my colleagues to
keep these deadly serious develop-
ments at the top of our minds as we at-
tend to our business in the days ahead.
f
HONG KONG
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
last week I spoke about the people’s
uprising in Hong Kong. Over the past
several days, millions of residents have
taken to the streets to defend their au-
tonomy and the rule of law from con-
tinued encroachment of the communist
government of mainland China.
After days of tension, this past week-
end brought some good news. In a sign
that the people’s demonstrations had
sent a clear message, Hong Kong offi-
cials now said that the government
will suspend consideration of the pro-
posed ‘‘extradition’’ bill indefinitely.
The fate of Hong Kong and its special
status is a subject I have watched care-
fully for decades. Early on in my Sen-
ate tenure, I introduced the legislation
that still governs our relationship with
Hong Kong, the U.S.-Hong Kong Policy
Act of 1992, which President Bush 41
signed into law. On the day I intro-
duced that legislation, I said it was
heartening to see that ‘‘democracy is
finally gaining a tenuous foot hold in
Hong Kong.’’
Well, the nearly 30 years since then
have shown us all just what the people
of Hong Kong can do when the terms of
their independence and freedom are re-
spected. We have seen Hong Kong
thrive, in large measure due to the po-
litical and economic freedoms and sta-
ble rule of law that Hong Kong’s spe-
cial status has enabled, but we have
also seen clearly in recent days that
freedom’s foothold in the shadow of
mainland China is not a given. It re-
mains tenuous even now.
I wanted to again express my admira-
tion for the people of Hong Kong and
their strong but peaceful response to
this proposed encroachment. I am glad
to see their leaders respect their will-
ingness to stand their ground, and I
hope the city’s authorities will con-
tinue to respect the clear will of the
people on these issues moving forward.
JOHN S. MCCAIN NATIONAL
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on a related subject, all of these events
I have discussed, from Iran’s mis-
behavior to China’s aggressiveness, un-
derscore one thing very clearly: The
United States needs to remain engaged,
prepared, and powerful.
We need to leave zero doubt among
our friends and allies, our most violent
foes, and everybody in between that
while the United States does not seek
conflict, we must be prepared to deci-
sively defeat our adversaries if conflict
is forced upon us. That is called deter-
rence.
The growing global unrest should be
a lesson to us as the Senate gets ready
to turn to the National Defense Au-
thorization Act later this week. I know
my colleagues on both sides share my
hope that this year’s NDAA can build
on the successes of the past 2 years.
Our first obligation to the American
people is to ensure for their defense. It
is essential that we continue rebuilding
our military by authorizing sufficient
support to modernize and sustain the
advantages that America’s all-vol-
untary Armed Forces have over our ad-
versaries.
Working with the Trump administra-
tion in recent years, we have been able
to end a chapter of harmful spending
cuts that have left military leaders less
able to address emerging challenges. As
a result, last year’s legislation—named
for our dear colleague, the late John
McCain—authorized the largest year-
on-year increase in defense spending in
15 years.
The bill introduced last week is a
step further toward implementing our
important new national defense strat-
egy, toward renewing the readiness and
lethality of our forces, and toward
making sure that we never ask brave
American men and women to step into
harm’s way without all possible tools
and training to help them succeed.
This crucial legislation has a chance to
be a major bipartisan success story of
this Congress. It is already off to an en-
couraging start, having been voted out
of the Armed Services Committee by
an overwhelming bipartisan margin.
And it is easy to see why. As great-
power competitors like Russia and
China continue to challenge U.S. inter-
ests, this NDAA will help to maintain
and expand our alliances and partner-
ships, along with our ability to stand
firm.
The bill puts readiness front and cen-
ter. In recent decades, our most formi-
dable competitors have taken every op-
portunity to deploy new technological
threats. Keeping American and allied
servicemembers out of harm’s way
means keeping up with these develop-
ments and outpacing them.
The bill takes steps to expand over-
sight and increase efficiency at the
Pentagon. It honors the tremendous
sacrifices made by servicemembers and
their families by securing the largest
pay raise in a decade, along with sev-
eral other important reforms.
TAXPAYER FIRST ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on one final matter. I want to celebrate
another legislative accomplishment
the Senate notched last week.
On Thursday, the Senate passed the
Taxpayer First Act and sent it to
President Trump’s desk to become law.
This legislation is the most thorough
package of reforms to the Internal Rev-
enue Service in 20 years.
Let me say that again. The Senate
just passed the most significant re-
forms to the IRS in two decades. It will
create a new, independent process for
appeals to ensure taxpayers receive fair
treatment. During dispute resolutions,
taxpayers will now get access to the
same information the IRS has.
There will be more accountability
within the IRS when it comes to cyber
security, careful management of tech-
nology, and overall efficiency. There
will be a new streamlined system for
addressing identity theft. There will be
better procedures for advance notifica-
tion in the event of an audit or an
asset seizure, and there will be new
steps to make it easier to file your
taxes and supporting documents on-
line.
So this is a significant accomplish-
ment. These reforms will make one of
the least appealing annual tasks for
hard-working Americans a little bit
less painful.
A year and a half ago, the Republican
Members of this body joined with
House Republicans and President
Trump to deliver historic tax cuts and
tax reform to the American people.
Middle-class families, parents, small
business owners, farmers, and job cre-
ators across the Nation are keeping
more of what they earn and sending
less to the IRS.
Now, thanks to this latest achieve-
ment, the IRS will be just a little bit
easier to deal with as well.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
AGRICULTURE
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, our
economy is thriving. Republican eco-
nomic policies, particularly the his-
toric tax reform legislation that we
passed at the end of 2017, have helped
to produce economic growth, higher
wages, and better opportunities for
workers.
Unfortunately, our Nation’s agri-
culture economy is trailing behind the
economy as a whole. A combination of
natural disasters, low commodity
prices, and protracted trade disputes
have left farmers and ranchers and
rural businesses struggling. Although
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.002 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3633
June 18, 2019
2019 crop prices have improved, mil-
lions of acres of cropland will go
unplanted and leave many farmers
with no crops to market this year.
Farmers and ranchers have a tough
job. Feeding our Nation and the world
is tough, backbreaking work. Farmers
and ranchers put in long days that
start before the Sun rises and often end
long after the Sun sets. Yet, no matter
how hard they work, all of their labor
can be undone by one devastating
storm or flood. For most Americans, a
bad storm might mean a wet or a de-
layed commute. For farmers and
ranchers, it can literally mean the loss
of substantial parts of their liveli-
hoods.
I am proud to represent South Dako-
ta’s hard-working farmers and ranchers
in the Senate, and addressing their
needs is one of my biggest priorities
here in Washington. Right now, I am
working on several fronts to expand
economic opportunity for farmers and
ranchers and help them access the sup-
port they need.
I recently requested a meeting with
the Department of Agriculture to dis-
cuss cover crop harvest flexibility on
prevent plant acres, Market Facilita-
tion Program payments, and Conserva-
tion Reserve Program signups. Last
Thursday, the Deputy Agriculture Sec-
retary—the second highest ranking of-
ficial at the Department of Agri-
culture—and the USDA Under Sec-
retary for Farm Production and Con-
servation came to my office to meet
with me on these issues.
One important topic of discussion
was of moving up the November 1 date
for haying or grazing cover crops plant-
ed on prevented plant acres. South Da-
kota’s farmers and ranchers are cur-
rently facing the fallout from severe
winter storms, heavy rainfall, bomb cy-
clones, and spring flooding. Planting is
behind schedule, and some farmers’
fields are so flooded that they won’t be
able to plant at all this year. The situ-
ation is similar throughout the entire
Midwest. As a result, many farmers are
thinking about planting quick-growing
cover crops on their prevent plant
acres for feed and grazing, once their
fields finally dry out, in order to pro-
tect the soil from erosion.
Yet there is a problem. Right now,
the Department of Agriculture doesn’t
allow farmers to harvest or graze cover
crops on prevent plant acres or to use
them for pasture until November 1.
Farmers who hay or graze before this
date face a reduction in their prevent
plant payments, which is crop insur-
ance to help them cover their income
losses when fields can’t be planted due
to flooding or other issues. November 1
is generally a pretty reasonable date
for farmers in Southern States, but in
Northern States like South Dakota,
November 1 is too late for harvesting
thanks to the risk of snow and other
late fall or early winter storms.
It is also too late to maximize the
use of cover crops for pasture since the
ground can freeze before cover crops
are fully grazed. Due to last year’s se-
vere and lengthy winter, feed supplies
have disappeared and have left no re-
serves. Corn stalks, which are a source
of grazing and bedding, will be in short
supply this year, which will result in
severe feed shortages and a need for ad-
ditional roughage. That is why I have
been pressing the Department of Agri-
culture to move this date up for farm-
ers in the Northern States. Cover crops
are a win-win situation and can reduce
feed shortages for many livestock pro-
ducers. They help the environment by
preventing soil erosion, which can pol-
lute streams and rivers and worsen
flooding, and they benefit farmers by
improving soil health, which improves
future crop yields.
It is important that we don’t discour-
age farmers from planting cover crops
by insisting on the November 1 harvest
date, and I emphasized that point to
the Deputy Secretary and the Under
Secretary. I know the Department of
Agriculture is looking at this issue
right now, and I will continue to en-
courage the Department to reach a de-
cision that addresses the reality that is
faced by northern farmers.
Another subject I raised at the meet-
ing last week was of the Conservation
Reserve Program signups. All farmers
are familiar with the Conservation Re-
serve Program, or CRP, as we refer to
it, which provides incentives for farm-
ers to take environmentally sensitive
land out of production for 10 to 15
years.
The Conservation Reserve Program
helps the environment by improving
soil health and water quality and by
providing habitat for wildlife, includ-
ing endangered and threatened species.
It also helps farmers by reducing their
crop insurance costs and providing
them with an annual payment for the
land they have taken out of produc-
tion.
I have spent years pushing for an in-
crease in the Conservation Reserve
Program’s acreage cap, and we finally
got a substantial increase in last year’s
farm bill. Yet the Department of Agri-
culture needs to expedite both general
and continuous CRP signups to allow
farmers to take full advantage of the
cap increase. Taking millions of acres
of land out of crop production in the
next year could have a big impact on
the farm economy by driving up com-
modity prices, which will boost farms’
incomes. In order for this to happen,
we need to make sure that farmers can
get their less productive land enrolled
in the Conservation Reserve Program
and out of crop production by next
year. That is why I have been urging
the Department of Agriculture to make
sure farmers can sign up in a timely
manner.
I also urged the Department to expe-
dite signups for the Soil Health and In-
come Protection Program. I introduced
the Soil Health and Income Protection
Program, which became law as part of
last year’s farm bill, in order to ad-
dress the concerns of farmers who were
interested in the Conservation Reserve
Program but didn’t want to take por-
tions of their land out of production for
a decade or more. The Soil Health and
Income Protection Program, or SHIPP,
provides a new, short-term option for
farmers that will allow them to take
their worst performing cropland out of
production for 3 to 5 years instead of
the 10 to 15 years that is required by
the CRP’s rules. Like the CRP, it will
protect our environment while it will
improve the bottom line for farmers.
The sooner we get this program imple-
mented, the sooner farmers and the en-
vironment will see the benefits.
I have also been pressing the USDA
to issue guidelines for the second round
of Market Facilitation Program pay-
ments, and I emphasized this point
again at last Thursday’s meeting.
While I know our farmers would rather
receive a check from the marketplace
than from the government, we have
safety net programs in place to help in
exactly the kinds of situations our
farmers find themselves in today.
I continue to press the administra-
tion on when the government will wrap
up negotiations on the various trade
deals that are under consideration. I
strongly support the administration’s
goal of strengthening market access
for our Nation’s farmers and ranchers,
and we have made real progress in
those negotiations. Now it is time to
push for a conclusion to these deals.
In addition to increased market ac-
cess, farmers and ranchers need cer-
tainty about what international mar-
kets will look like. I am also pushing
for the congressional consideration of
one already concluded trade agree-
ment—the United States-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement—in the near future.
This agreement will preserve and ex-
pand farmers’ and ranchers’ market ac-
cess to Canada and Mexico, and Con-
gress should take it up and pass it as
soon as possible.
To all of South Dakota’s farmers and
ranchers, I know you all have had a
very tough few years. I am working
hard here in Washington to do what-
ever I can to support you, and I will
keep fighting every day to get our agri-
culture economy thriving again.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MOTION TO DISCHARGE—S.J. RES.
36
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President,
pursuant to the Arms Export Control
Act of 1976, I move to discharge the
Foreign Relations Committee from fur-
ther consideration of S.J. Res. 36, re-
lating to the disapproval of the pro-
posed transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.004 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3634 June 18, 2019
Arabia, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain, and Northern Ireland, the
Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian Re-
public of certain defense articles and
services.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is pending and debatable for up to
1 hour.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President,
the resolution I have just asked for the
discharge of would disapprove the ad-
ministration’s sale of precision-guided
munitions to the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia—weapons they have used in the
killing of an untold number of innocent
civilians in their ongoing campaign in
Yemen.
This resolution is 1 of 22 that I have
filed with a bipartisan group of Sen-
ators in response to the administra-
tion’s flagrant disregard for congres-
sional oversight over arms sales.
On May 24, the Secretary of State at-
tempted to bypass this body in order to
push through 22 separate arms sales to
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates, claiming an ill-defined emer-
gency regarding Iran.
Now, while Iran is a threat to the in-
terests of the United States and the
Middle East, I think no one in this
body has been stronger on our sanc-
tions efforts and in other legislation
that I have been the architect of on
sanctioning Iran. The question before
us is whether these arms sales are spe-
cifically meant to be a response to
that.
These arms sales are a critical na-
tional security tool in terms of review-
ing and approving them as a core func-
tion of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. We are responsible for con-
sidering how each proposed sale fits
into the broader foreign policy goals
and our national security interests, in-
cluding the capacity and interoper-
ability of our partners.
The congressional review of arms
sales is mandated for a reason: so the
Secretary of State explicitly cannot do
what he tried to do last month with
these 22 sales to Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.
The suggestion that this is an emer-
gency, I think, was shown to be totally
hollow when we had the testimony of
the Assistant Secretary of State,
Clarke Cooper, who admitted in an
open House hearing that the decision
to make the emergency determination
was in the works for months—months.
It doesn’t take months to deal with
an emergency.
When pressed on how an emergency
declaration could be in the works for
months, he tried to argue that the
emergency showed up sometime be-
tween the 2 days that the Secretary
briefed Members and then made the no-
tification.
The Secretary of State was before
this body briefing Members, and at
that time, 3 days before this emergency
was declared, he said absolutely noth-
ing—nothing—about any pending emer-
gency, even though Assistant Sec-
retary Cooper said it had been in the
works for months. So how can it be in
the works for months, you are before
this body, and you say nothing 3 days
before you actually declare an emer-
gency? So on the process itself, it is
just false.
Secondly, what is happening in
Yemen is a humanitarian disaster that
has been exacerbated by the very weap-
ons we have been giving the Saudis in
order to fight this conflict in Yemen
and has created untold humanitarian
disaster.
These precision-guided missiles were
meant to avoid civilian casualties, but
they are not going to avoid civilian
casualties when you aim them with
precision at civilian targets. I will
have a lot more to say about that when
my colleagues who are joining with me,
on a bipartisan basis, come to the
floor. We hope to have a colloquy with
all of our colleagues in this regard.
The other point is, these weapons
will not counter Iranian threats. This
is all about using them in Yemen, and
the Assistant Secretary of State,
Clarke Cooper, admitted as much in a
hearing before the House last week.
Lastly, as a major point, which I will
expound upon, this particular transfer
is a transfer not only of sensitive tech-
nology but of American jobs to the
Saudis. This export license will allow
Saudi workers to begin to manufacture
part of the electronic guidance system
for these precision-guided munitions—
work that has been done and should
continue to be done by American work-
ers in the United States. I don’t think
the transfer of those sensitive tech-
nologies and the creation of its compo-
nents is something that is in the na-
tional interest, both economically or in
terms of our security.
Lastly, this is about this institution
standing up for its congressional pre-
rogatives to ensure that regardless of
who the President is in the White
House, arms sales are subject to review
of the Congress. The day we give that
up is the day we go down a dangerous
path.
This is the beginning of a process. I
want to say that I appreciate the will-
ingness and efforts of my cosponsor,
Senator GRAHAM, and of the majority
leader, as well as their staffs, to chart
an acceptable path forward on these
resolutions and on the Saudi sanctions
bill in the SAFE Act, which we also
seek to have an opportunity on. I will
have a lot more to say about these
arms sales, but to start this process, I
wanted to outline why we find our-
selves here today.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
ST. LOUIS BLUES
Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, I
want to talk about good news for two
of our major cities in Missouri. I will
start with the sporting news, which
would be the July 12 victory of the St.
Louis Blues, when they earned their
spot in the history books when they de-
feated the Boston Bruins in game 7 of
the Stanley Cup finals.
For the first time in franchise his-
tory, the Blues brought the Stanley
Cup trophy to Missouri to celebrate
their incredible achievement and to
share it with some of the best sports
fans in America.
Senator HAWLEY and I look forward
to a chance, before too long, to host
the Stanley Cup here at the Senate so
all my colleagues will get to see the
joy we have in seeing that come to our
State.
It is hard to imagine that just 6
months ago, the Blues were the lowest
ranked team in the NHL. I think at the
first of the season the odds were 60 to
1 that the Blues would win the Stanley
Cup. Those were the highest odds any
team faced.
As it turned out, the odds aren’t al-
ways what counts. What counts is how
you play the season. So they got off to
a rough start, changed their coach in
January, and then as the season pro-
gressed, at the end of the regular sea-
son, they won 11 straight games.
A rookie, Jordan Binnington, led the
team to an incredibly successful second
half. His goalie performance in the sec-
ond half of the season, and particularly
in the Stanley Cup games, was extraor-
dinary, especially in that last game.
The Blues eventually moved on to
get the third seed in the Western Con-
ference playoffs. They won their series
against Winnipeg in four games to two
in the first round. They advanced to
the second round to defeat the Dallas
Stars in a really dramatic double over-
time victory in game seven. They con-
tinued their historic run, defeating the
San Jose Sharks in round three, and
then the Blues made it all the way to
the Stanley Cup final and ended the
season with a decisive 4-to-1 victory in
game seven and at Boston.
I think, if you look back at the
record on this, the Blues had clearly
learned to win away from home, and
they proved that in the Stanley Cup.
They played as one team, they played
as one unit, but they had lots of people
helping. Ryan O’Reilly set a franchise
record with 23 points in the playoffs.
He ultimately went on to win the Conn
Smythe Award as the postseason MVP.
Jordan Binnington, whom I mentioned
before, became the first and only rook-
ie goalie to win 16 games in the Stan-
ley Cup playoffs. Patrick Maroon, a
Missouri native, scored a heroic goal in
the double overtime of game seven
against the Dallas Stars.
There was another individual who
was reflective of just lots of the fans
whom the Blues had with them. This
superfan, Laila Anderson, 11 years old,
didn’t let her battle with a rare, life-
threatening disease prevent her from
cheering on the team she loved.
At the beginning of game three in the
Stanley finals, she took to the ice be-
fore the puck dropped and fired up the
team and the nearly 20,000 fans who
filled the Enterprise Center.
Laila became such an important fac-
tor to the Blues’ victories that they
flew this 11-year-old to Boston to make
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.006 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3635
June 18, 2019
sure their No. 1 fan would be there to
cheer them on in game seven.
Shortly after the Blues were pre-
sented with the Stanley Cup, she cele-
brated with the players on the ice as
they passed around that iconic trophy.
Her inspirational story is just an-
other example of why this was a season
right out of the storybooks. The city of
St. Louis and our State will never for-
get the Blues’ incredible achievement
this year.
I would like to congratulate Tom
Stillman, the general manager; Doug
Armstrong, the head coach; Craig
Berube; and all the coaches, the play-
ers, the fans, and the staff who brought
this incredible victory home to St.
Louis.
I look forward to hearing our fans
sing ‘‘Gloria’’ many more times next
year when the team defends its title as
Stanley Cup champions.
USDA
Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, as the
St. Louisans were celebrating the
Stanley Cup, people on the other side
of our State in Kansas City received
some great news—this time great news
from the Federal Government, when
the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture,
Sonny Perdue, announced on Thursday
that two Federal ag research agencies
would be moving their headquarters to
the Kansas City region from Wash-
ington, DC.
The Economic Research Service and
the National Institute of Food and Ag-
riculture together will bring more than
500 jobs to the Kansas City area. It is
fantastic news for our State, for our re-
gion, I think also for the workers at
those two agencies and their families.
The point of the move is to get these
important government offices closer to
the customers they serve and to save
the taxpayers money. Kansas City will
be a great place to do both of those
things.
Missouri is already home to more
than 5,000 U.S. Department of Agri-
culture employees and contractors
working for a dozen different Depart-
ment offices in the Department of Ag-
riculture, but bringing these two agen-
cy headquarters to the State will put
them right in the middle of some of the
most exciting and cutting-edge innova-
tion happening in the ag industry.
Talk about being closer to your cus-
tomers, the farmers of America, and
closer to examples of innovation, I
think this move and Secretary Pur-
due’s decision is clearly going to show
that is the case.
Kansas City is close to at least a
dozen land-grant universities in our
State. Two of those would be the Uni-
versity of Missouri in Columbia and
Lincoln University in Jefferson City.
These institutions, along with the
other land-grant institutions in the re-
gion, are preparing for the next genera-
tion of ag leaders to meet maybe the
greatest challenge of all time as world
food demand moves toward doubling
between now and 2050 and world food
need doubles between now and 2060. A
lot more food is going to have to be
grown on the same land with fewer in-
puts, to meet our environmental con-
cerns, our climate concerns, our other
concerns, but still feed the world in a
way that we are uniquely positioned to
be a lead partner in that partnership of
feeding the world.
The move the USDA has made will
give them the opportunity to strength-
en partnerships they already have and
have even greater impact as they work
to improve crop yields and develop risk
management strategies.
Our State is also a big part of the
Kansas City Animal Health Corridor,
which extends from Manhattan, KS, to
Columbia, MO. That corridor is home
to more than 300 animal health compa-
nies. It is the largest concentration in
the world of that business and includes
five of the world’s largest animal
health companies.
Relocating these agencies will save
taxpayers a lot of money. Secretary
Perdue anticipates that almost $300
million will be saved over the next 15
years and all the moving costs will be
earned back within 12 months of the
move. It is hard to imagine an invest-
ment you make where you have 100
percent payback in 12 months, but that
is going to happen with this one.
That frees up more resources to go
toward grants and research instead of
being paid to the Department’s land-
lords.
(Mr. SCOTT of Florida assumed the
Chair.)
I think it will also be a huge upgrade
for the lives of people who will be Fed-
eral employees living outside of Wash-
ington and in the middle of the coun-
try. Last month, the average house in
Washington cost more than $600,000. In
Kansas City, the average price was
about a quarter of that. Now, you can
find the $600,000 house in Kansas City,
but it is not the average house being
sold like it is here. I know local banks
and mortgage companies are standing
ready to help those Federal families as
they move to Kansas City.
Also—now that we have gone from
Madam President to Mr. President, as
the Senator from Florida has taken the
seat and is in charge of the Senate here
for a while—you are making that deci-
sion with the current employees in
mind, but I think you are also making
that decision, more importantly, with
future employees. Where will be the
best place to recruit? Where will be the
best place to encourage people to do
graduate work and other things that
allow them to do their jobs better? I
think there were other choices, but I
certainly think the choice of Kansas
City was a good one. There is a thriv-
ing economy right now, with lots of job
opportunities. Like the rest of the
country, there are more jobs available
than people looking for work. Missouri
added 8,200 jobs last year, and we con-
tinue to see that happen.
Our new neighbors will also find that
Kansas City is home to limitless cul-
tural, educational, and recreational op-
portunities—very appropriate to men-
tion with my native Missouri and now
the Senator from Florida here in the
Chair. We have major league sports
teams, like the Royals, the Chiefs, and
Sporting Kansas City. We have a thriv-
ing theater culture, a world-class mu-
seum at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of
Art, the Negro Leagues Baseball Mu-
seum, Science City at Union Station,
and that names just a few.
The motto of USDA is ‘‘Do Right and
Feed Everyone.’’ By the way, we were
doing research at the Federal level be-
fore there was a USDA. In the 1850s, ag
research was going on right here in
Washington sponsored by the Federal
Government. In 1862, when the USDA
was formed, one of the principle rea-
sons was research. These two facilities
will be an important part of that. When
the people at ERS and NIFA join the
many USDA colleagues they already
have in our State, we think they will
find their mission easier and more re-
warding than ever.
It is a great time to look forward to-
ward the future of agriculture. Cer-
tainly Missouri and Kansas City and
Kansas and that entire region that
hubs around Kansas City, MO, are ex-
cited to be a bigger part of that. Con-
gratulations to those employees, and
congratulations to the decision Sec-
retary Perdue has made to relocate
those two Washington-based organiza-
tions to a place where they are going
to be closer to the work they do.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. I ask that I be
permitted to speak for up to 7 minutes
as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, as
we move toward debate over the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020, I wanted to remind
my colleagues that while we stand pre-
pared to negotiate its various provi-
sions, our military men and women
stand at the ready. They stand at the
ready every single day. It is a 24/7 busi-
ness for them for a much more serious
task, and that is the defense of this
great Nation.
As we consider this year’s NDAA, we
must do so with the understanding that
our Nation is faced with new, sophisti-
cated threats to our way of life and to
the world order.
Two emerging warfighting domains—
cyber and space—are capturing much
of the attention of this body and our
allies and, I will also add, capturing
the attention of our enemies, of those
who do not wish us well.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.007 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3636 June 18, 2019
It is these two domains—cyber and
space—that pose increased threats to
our national infrastructure and our
way of engaging with both those allies
and our adversaries. Debating defense
spending means thinking beyond heli-
copters and submarines or equipment
and artillery and viewing this author-
ization in the larger context of multi
and unseen domain warfare. That is
why my colleagues and I on the Senate
Armed Services Committee have come
to the table with a bill that shores up
funding for these legacy programs and
devotes new funding to address these
emerging threats.
First and foremost, this bill author-
izes a 3.1-percent pay increase for the
Members of our Armed Forces. That is
so vitally important for the men and
women at Fort Campbell, which is lo-
cated right there on the Tennessee and
Kentucky border. That is a post where
I have spent much of my legislative ca-
reer involved with those men and
women and with the command team.
This is a justified and well-earned
raise that recognizes their commit-
ment to defending against unfamiliar
threats that rise above and beyond the
everyday servicemember’s scope of
duty.
We have found ourselves once more
in the midst of great power competi-
tion. America will always have rivals
on the world stage. Over the past dec-
ade, we have seen countries like China
and Russia pursuing increasingly so-
phisticated and lethal weapons sys-
tems.
We have no choice but to recognize
this emerging reality and give our
military men and women the tools
they need to combat developing threats
and preserve U.S. preeminence across
all warfighting domains.
With this funding, we will prioritize
more sophisticated cyber security and
space-based strategies, artificial intel-
ligence, and other emerging tech-
nologies. We will take steps to protect
the integrity of our supply chain so we
can be confident the microelectronics
we depend on have not been corrupted
by foreign spyware.
A good defense is only as strong as
its weakest link, and this bill will
allow us to shore up our relationship
with the defense industrial base and
ensure that contractors are not under
the undue influence of foreign actors.
This is all in addition to readiness
projects here at home.
Our mark includes full funding for
the National Nuclear Security Admin-
istration, which is critical to our nu-
clear modernization program.
I think it is worth noting that our
friends in the House cut over $70 mil-
lion from infrastructure and facility
operations, which goes toward rebuild-
ing crumbling buildings at the NNSA
plants and labs. That is funding that
should be restored. Modern and respon-
sive nuclear infrastructure is an essen-
tial part of credible deterrence, which
is a critical concern in great power
competition. Funding for these
projects must not end up as a casualty
of budget negotiations.
Now, it is true that this is a massive
authorization and that much of the
funding we authorize will not manifest
itself in visible hardware, but I encour-
age my friends in this body, do not let
this deter you from seeing the big pic-
ture. National defense is no longer lim-
ited to the tools and infrastructure we
can see. It includes an enormous cov-
ering that is needed by our Nation and
our allies in this virtual space.
We must focus our defense budget on
future threats, not those of the past, in
order to not repeat the mistakes of the
past. I believe that this year’s NDAA
accomplishes just that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The as-
sistant Democratic leader.
NOMINATION OF MATTHEW J. KACSMARYK
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, if you
study the recent course of American
history, you can note there has been
the emergence of opportunity and de-
bates on freedom many times during
the last 50 years.
I think back to my time, my early
years of education in high school and
college, when America was in the midst
of debate about the rights of African
Americans—the civil rights movements
in the 1960s.
We have also had debates as well on
the question of liberty and freedom—
freedom from discrimination for
women in America and for those who
are disabled. It really is the hallmark
of this democracy that we continue to
expand opportunity and continue to
question our own beliefs when it comes
to the freedom which each of us cher-
ishes.
We are now in the midst of an inter-
esting transformation in this country
on the issue of rights of people with
different sexual orientation. We have
seen some dramatic changes in just the
last few years as we find more and
more people speaking out against dis-
crimination against those of a different
sexual orientation, and, of course, the
landmark decision in Obergefell, where
the U.S. Supreme Court recognized the
right for same-sex marriage. This is
not without controversy and not with-
out dissenters, but the mainstream of
America, the vast majority of Ameri-
cans believe we are moving along the
same path we did when we talked about
the rights of those who are minorities,
women, and the disabled, when we say
people should be free of discrimination
because of their own sexual orienta-
tion.
That is why it strikes me as unusual,
more than coincidental, that in June—
the LGBTQ Pride Month—our Repub-
lican colleagues decided to bring to the
floor the nomination of Texas district
court nominee Matthew Kacsmaryk,
who has repeatedly written in his per-
sonal capacity about his opposition to
LGBTQ rights and the Obergefell deci-
sion.
Mr. Kacsmaryk’s nomination was re-
ported out of the Senate Judiciary
Committee on a party-line vote in Feb-
ruary, but for some reason, the Repub-
lican leadership decided to wait and
force a vote on the floor of the Senate
during Pride Month. Now they are call-
ing for a vote this week.
Mr. Kacsmaryk has not been shy
about his hostility to marriage equal-
ity in transgender Americans. On June
24, 2015, he wrote an article in which he
noted that the Supreme Court would
decide the Obergefell case in the next
few weeks and speculated whether five
Justices would, in his words, ‘‘invent a
constitutional right to same-sex mar-
riage.’’
After the decision, Mr. Kacsmaryk
wrote a disparaging summary—which I
will not quote into the RECORD—but it
certainly shows his opposition to the
fundamental premise behind that deci-
sion. He was quoted in the Liberty In-
stitute blog of October 16, 2014 saying
‘‘the pro-marriage movement must pre-
pare for the long war.’’
He signed a letter in 2016 relating to
transgender Americans, calling them
‘‘a delusion.’’ Last December, the par-
ents of 300 transgender children—in-
cluding 39 from my State of Illinois—
wrote the Senate in opposition to Mr.
Kacsmaryk’s nomination and said:
‘‘Our children are not a delusion, and
neither is our love and support for
them.’’
Even though Mr. Kacsmaryk has ex-
pressed strident personal views oppos-
ing LGBTQ rights, and even though he
has litigated frequently in cases in-
volving these matters, he would not
commit to recuse himself from cases
involving this issue if he were to be
confirmed by the Senate.
I oppose the Kacsmaryk nomination.
This is yet another extreme nominee
outside the mainstream of American
thinking who does not deserve to be
rubberstamped for a lifetime appoint-
ment by the U.S. Senate.
THE KOVLER CENTER AND CAMEROON
Mr. President, just 2 weeks ago, I had
a meeting in Chicago with my col-
league Congresswoman JAN SCHA-
KOWSKY. We were at Heartland Alli-
ance’s Marjorie Kovler Center. What
happens at this center is truly remark-
able and a reflection of America’s long
history of welcoming those who are
fleeing political violence.
The Kovler Center is home to one of
our Nation’s oldest and most respected
facilities, helping those recovering
from complex consequences of politi-
cally sanctioned torture. This is its
32nd year in operation. More than 3,000
torture survivors from 80 different
countries have received assistance and
counsel at the Kovler Center in Chi-
cago.
The problem of torture among refu-
gees is significant.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator’s time has expired.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for an ad-
ditional 2 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.013 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3637
June 18, 2019
Mr. DURBIN. The problem of torture
among refugees is significant, with an
estimated 44 percent of refugees in the
United States having been victims of
such horrors. Those from Bosnia, Cam-
bodia, and many other places all re-
ceive free treatment at the Kovler Cen-
ter to recover from their trauma.
During my visit I had the privilege of
meeting refugees who had fled the
mounting violence in Cameroon. Cam-
eroon is a West African nation that is
dealing with a complicated colonial
legacy. Following World War I, the
League of Nations appointed France
and Great Britain as joint trustees to
what was previously a German colony.
Not surprisingly, the two colonial pow-
ers imposed their own cultures on the
new Cameroon.
Tragically, following the country’s
independence in the 1960s, Cameroonian
strongman President Paul Biya, one of
the world’s longest serving leaders—
now almost 40 years in office—further
favored the French-speaking popu-
lation over its Anglophone regions.
The results were not surprising. The
mounting resentment and calls for
greater autonomy within the
Anglophone population caused ensuing
violent suppression from the Biya re-
gime. The refugees I met with told
harrowing stories of this crackdown
and violence.
I was pleased to join Senator VAN
HOLLEN last year in a letter urging
Secretary Pompeo to focus attention
on the unrest in Cameroon, and I was
equally pleased when the administra-
tion scaled back U.S. military assist-
ance to Cameroon due to this govern-
ment’s violent repression. As a Member
of the Appropriations Committee, I
will be watching carefully the level of
violence in Cameroon and, when the
day comes, when we consider any for-
eign aid to this Nation.
The work of the Kovler Center is a
reminder that if we are going to stand
up for human rights we must be willing
to be vigilant at all times, even for
small countries as far away as Cam-
eroon.
I yield the floor.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Sean Cairncross, of Min-
nesota, to be Chief Executive Officer,
Millennium Challenge Corporation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO ALANA PETERSEN
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise
today to pay tribute and express my
gratitude to Alana Petersen, my dep-
uty chief of staff and long time staff
leader for the Minnesota congressional
delegation. Alana is retiring from her
official role after serving the Min-
nesota delegation since 1993.
During her public service, Alana
worked for Congressman Dave Minge,
from Minnesota’s First Congressional
District; Congressman John Oberstar,
from Minnesota’s Eighth Congressional
District; Senator Al Franken; and now
for me. In all of those roles, she has
served the people of Minnesota first
and especially those who most needed
an ally and a voice in the halls of
power here in Washington: farmers and
rural families, new immigrants, Min-
nesota’s Tribal communities, and Min-
nesota’s diverse communities of color.
For those of you who don’t know
Alana, let me tell you a little bit about
her. Alana was born in Minnesota and,
like me, spent part of her childhood in
New Mexico. In fact, she and I went to
the same elementary school, although
Alana is younger than me and had the
benefit of a new building.
Alana headed Al Franken’s Min-
nesota Senate office beginning when he
was sworn in 2009. Before joining
Franken’s staff, she worked in the of-
fice of Congressman Jim Oberstar for 5
years as deputy district director, and
she worked for Congressman Dave
Minge for 6 years in several capacities.
Alana also served as executive direc-
tor of Target Market, a statewide non-
profit organization that promoted an
anti-tobacco message to teens, and she
held a position at Grassroots Solu-
tions, a political consulting firm where
she worked with national labor unions,
congressional candidates, and pro-
choice organizations.
As if her official work weren’t
enough, Alana has long been a go-to
volunteer for her community, where
she has served as chair of the East Cen-
tral Regional Arts Council and board
chair for Women Winning, a bipartisan
group dedicated to electing more
women to public office.
Alana is married to Thom Petersen,
who is the Minnesota commissioner of
agriculture for Governor Tim Walz, and
she is mom to Waylon and Dylan.
Alana and her family live on a working
farm in Pine County, MN, an hour
north of the Twin Cities. The Petersens
raise and show miniature horses at
county fairs all across Minnesota and
at the Minnesota State Fair, earning
blue ribbons, not only because of the
amazing minis but also thanks to the
amazing costumes sewn by Alana.
To Thom, Waylon, and Dylan, thank
you for sharing your mom and wife
with us and with Minnesota all of these
years.
So I can’t tell you when I first met
Alana, but we have been good friends
and allies for decades. As in all great
friendships born from working to-
gether, we are connected by a sense of
shared purpose, a sense of humor, and a
complete trust that, when in doubt, we
can call the other one. Each of us, in
turn, has been a shoulder to lean on, a
strategic adviser, a gut check, and a
great excuse for a good laugh when ei-
ther of us needs it.
This has been true for both of us for
years, but never more so than in this
last year when I became an accidental
Senator and called on my old friend to
jump in one more time to help me be-
come a Senator and win a Senate seat,
all in 10 months. Alana helped me to
see that I could do this job and also
win an election in such a short time. It
is no exaggeration to say that I
couldn’t have done any of this without
her.
Alana has the heart of an organizer.
In fact, she tells the story that she
first canvassed her neighborhood as a
fifth-grader, knocking on doors for the
father of a friend of hers who was run-
ning for office. She has been organizing
and engaging people in the democratic
process ever since.
As an organizer Alana knows that
the best ideas come from the ground
up, not the top down. She understands
that the best work happens when you
build relationships with people at the
grassroots. She has mentored and
taught generations of campaign and
congressional office staffers that team-
work based on mutual respect, high ex-
pectations, and clear goals makes
progress for people possible, and that it
can be joyful work.
For years Alana has been the go-to
person for young candidates just start-
ing out—and a lot of us seasoned politi-
cians too. The political offices, cam-
paigns, and nonprofits of Minnesota are
powered by the people Alana has
taught and mentored.
As an organizer, she is rooted in the
value that Paul Wellstone best ex-
pressed when he said that politics
shouldn’t be about money and power; it
should be about improving people’s
lives.
It means more to me than I can ex-
press that Minnesotans elected me to
serve in this seat once held by Hubert
Humphrey, Walter Mondale, and Paul
Wellstone.
On October 25, 2002, we lost Paul in a
terrible plane crash, along with Paul’s
wife Sheila, his daughter Marsha, and
staffers Will, Tom, and Mary Mac,
Alana’s mentor. In the fall of 2002,
Alana had quit her regular job in Du-
luth to join the campaign for Paul’s re-
election because she knew she wanted
to contribute to the grassroots move-
ment that Paul was building. The plane
crash and the loss of our friends was
heartbreaking to all of us.
Last year, on October 25, Alana
shared a letter her father wrote to the
Wellstone campaign team in the days
after the crash. It is particularly
touching because her father, Thomas
Christiansen, passed away on October
25, 2009, 7 years after we lost Paul.
Here is part of what Alana’s father
said: ‘‘For some, public service is the
dedication of one’s life to the commu-
nity. I have come to realize that my
daughter Alana is one of those elite
few.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.015 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3638 June 18, 2019
Alana, you are indeed one of those
elite few. Thank you for your service
to Minnesota, and thank you for what
you will continue to do for many years
ahead to move forward the hard but
precious work of improving people’s
lives.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that I speak in
leader time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TROOP DEPLOYMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
night, the Defense Department an-
nounced that 1,000 additional troops
would be deployed to the Middle East.
This is the second deployment of 1,000
or more troops in the past 30 days, os-
tensibly to deal with Iran’s increased
activity in the region.
Despite these two announcements,
the President has yet to address the
Nation about these developments. The
President has yet to articulate a strat-
egy about American involvement in
the region. He has yet to send a single
military commander to testify before
the Armed Services Committee. And he
has yet to explain what his policy of
‘‘maximum pressure’’ on Iran is sup-
posed to achieve. All we have heard is
the Secretary of State, our chief dip-
lomat, rattling the sabers of war.
As U.S. troops again prepare to de-
ploy to the Middle East, this adminis-
tration has an obligation to explain to
the American people exactly what is
happening and why. If they have a
case, they must make it public. Ameri-
cans are rightly skeptical and tired of
endless wars in the Middle East—a reti-
cence that many on the Republican
side don’t seem to share. Americans
know that smaller actions have a tend-
ency to escalate into larger actions
even when there is no congressional au-
thority and no check.
The administration has offered to
send various officials to give classified
briefings, but, frankly, that is not
nearly good enough. We have learned a
hard truth from our experience in
Iraq—that the drums of war start beat-
ing behind closed doors. The President
must make his pitch to the Nation in-
stead of another closed-door meeting
with Senators. As the Commander in
Chief, he owes that to every American
but especially to the American service-
members, and their families, whom he
is sending into the Middle East.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. President, Leader MCCONNELL
has indicated he plans to have the Sen-
ate consider legislation next week on
the administration’s request for sup-
plemental appropriations to handle mi-
gration at our southern border. As I
have said many times, Democrats want
to provide the necessary resources to
secure our borders and ensure that ev-
eryone who arrives there is treated hu-
manely; however, the sheer chaos of
this administration’s policy, the sheer
mismanagement, the erratic nature
when the President says one thing one
day and another the next, mean that
we must be precise and careful about
how we do it.
The fact is very simple: President
Trump’s immigration policies are inhu-
mane, erratic, fleeting, and impossible
to carry out at the same time.
Right now, on the Homestead Air
Force Base in Florida, the Trump ad-
ministration has authorized a for-prof-
it company to build a temporary shel-
ter for migrants that is little better
than an internment camp. We have
heard routinely about the separation of
children from parents, about the hor-
rible conditions at the DHS facilities,
about children—children—in cages.
That is as un-American as anything.
This past week, I read in the New
York Times the story of a 4-month-old
boy. It wrenched my heart. He was sep-
arated from his parents—a cleavage so
severe at an age so young that the boy
has suffered a great trauma. He is now
more than a year and a half old. He is
back in his home country of Romania
with his parents. He still can’t walk on
his own. He still hasn’t spoken.
What are we doing to these innocent
children? What are we doing? Stories
like these are heart-wrenching; the
policies that create them, unconscion-
able; and so often, the policies are an-
nounced according to the President’s
whim. Every day, the President seems
to have a different crazy idea, often
contradicting his previous thought—a
national emergency declaration to
build a wall, tariffs for Mexico, shut-
ting down the border entirely.
Last night, the President tweeted
that ICE was planning mass immigra-
tion arrests and removal. The Presi-
dent seems to just invent a new policy
in the morning by tweet with the sole
purpose of rallying his base.
Ideas like deporting millions of im-
migrants inside our border have been
dismissed by government officials in
charge of immigration as unrealistic.
The very people the President puts in
charge say this policy can’t happen. It
doesn’t bother him. Maybe he was
doing this to talk about it at his rally
tonight, his election rally in Florida.
But I will tell you something. He tried
this before the 2018 election—big crisis
at the border. It didn’t seem to work.
What appeals to a base—a rather nar-
row base of the President’s supporters
does not appeal to the American people
when it comes to being erratic, inhu-
mane, harsh, and ineffective on immi-
gration.
Members of both parties should be
weary—weary—about giving the ad-
ministration additional funding if it is
not going to be used to secure our bor-
der or provide better conditions for mi-
grants and asylum seekers, especially
children.
Again, just remember what the Presi-
dent has called for in the last few
months, none of which have happened
and none of which have curbed the flow
at the border—so many different
things, none of which make sense. Re-
member the national emergency dec-
laration to build a wall. Remember the
tariffs with Mexico. Remember the
shutting down of the border entirely.
And now mass immigration arrests and
removal. It is a policy that is erratic,
unsuccessful, ineffective, and maybe
worst of all, inhumane—even taking a
4-month-old from his parents and leav-
ing that child with a trauma probably
for the rest of his life.
We Democrats have a proposal that is
common sense, that would actually do
things. At one point, the President
seemed to support it, but that was
fleeting like every one of his other pro-
posals on immigration. Here is what we
propose. I hope the President is listen-
ing, and I hope, at least, our Repub-
lican colleagues are listening, because
we can actually get something done.
We propose to provide more immigra-
tion judges at the border to reduce the
backlog in cases.
We provide for the allowance of asy-
lum seekers to apply for asylum within
their home countries. Why are these
people fleeing? The President would
have Americans believe they are all
drug dealers and MS–13 members.
There are a few of those, and they
shouldn’t be let in, and they shouldn’t
be given any mercy. Yet the vast ma-
jority of these people—you have seen
the pictures—is made up of parents and
children. Sometimes their daughters
have been threatened with rape by
gangs or their sons have been murdered
or they are going to burn down their
houses or burn down their businesses if
they don’t go along with the gangs.
Who wouldn’t flee? Who wouldn’t? So
let them apply for asylum and not have
to pay the coyotes and not have them
make this dangerous trek of 1,000 miles
from their own countries. It is a good
proposal. At one point, the President
entertained it. Let’s do it.
Finally, we provide security assist-
ance to Central American countries in
order to crack down on the drug car-
tels, the violent gangs, the corruption,
and the lawlessness.
These are the things we should be
doing—having more immigration
judges to reduce the backlog; allowing
for asylum seekers to apply for asylum
in their home countries; and providing
security assistance to crack down on
the drug cartels, violent gangs, and the
coyotes.
Yesterday, unfortunately, the State
Department did the opposite. It an-
nounced it would cut off all further se-
curity assistance, including over $400
million of already obligated assistance
to Guatemala, Honduras, and El Sal-
vador, until the countries reduce the
number of migrants coming to the
United States. Talk about cutting off
your nose to spite your face.
What an insane, insane new policy
idea from the President—even crazier
than some of the others. The Trump
administration is actually doing the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.016 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3639
June 18, 2019
one thing that will make the migration
problem drastically worse. He will then
blame somebody else, but everyone can
see what is going on. It is almost as if
the administration wants the problems
at our borders to continue so the Presi-
dent can demagogue the issue for polit-
ical purposes. This policy is complete
nonsense.
So, as Leader MCCONNELL moves to
the administration’s supplemental bor-
der requests in the near future, I urge
my Republican colleagues to study our
legislation. Unlike what the adminis-
tration is doing and proposing, our
policies are reasonable, measured, and
actually suited to the problem at hand.
THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
AND ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. President, I have been talking a
lot to this day on election security,
and I will just make a final pitch.
We hope that Leader MCCONNELL will
stop stonewalling the need to improve
the security of our elections and pre-
vent Russian or Chinese or Iranian or
North Korean interference in 2020,
which would gnaw at the roots of our
democracy. There are lots of ways we
can do it. We have UC statements on
the floor and legislation we could bring
to the floor that is bipartisan. We have
an NDAA bill within which we will re-
quest some election security measures,
and we have the appropriations process
by which we can give money that is
badly needed to the States.
We hope our Republican colleagues
will join us in this. Preventing foreign
countries from interfering in our elec-
tions is not a Democratic or a Repub-
lican issue; it is an American issue. It
is the very thing George Washington
and so many of the other Founding Fa-
thers warned us against over 200 years
ago. There is no need for this to be par-
tisan. We hope we can come together
on the issue.
I yield the floor.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). Pursuant to rule XXII, the
Chair lays before the Senate the pend-
ing cloture motion, which the clerk
will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Sean Cairncross, of Minnesota, to
be Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Chal-
lenge Corporation.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, John Bar-
rasso, Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, John Thune, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, John Boozman, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Johnny Isakson,
Tim Scott, Mike Braun, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Sean Cairncross, of Minnesota, to be
Chief Executive Officer, Millennium
Challenge Corporation, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), and the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 59,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 166 Ex.]
YEAS—59
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Udall
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 59, the nays are 37.
The motion is agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent the Senate stand in recess fol-
lowing the remarks of myself, Senator
COLLINS, and Senator KING.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
SENATOR COLLINS’ 7,000TH VOTE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
want to take a moment to recognize a
remarkable event that this institution
was fortunate enough to witness just a
few minutes ago. During the vote we
just concluded, our distinguished col-
league, the senior Senator from Maine,
cast her 7,000th rollcall vote. It is a
great milestone for Senator COLLINS
which bears witness to her dedication
to this work and most especially to the
people of Maine. It is actually even
more impressive than that. This wasn’t
just Senator COLLINS’ 7,000th vote; it
was her 7,000th consecutive vote. From
the moment she was sworn in, she has
not missed a single vote. Difficulties
with travel or bad weather? She plans
around them. Personal challenges? She
adapts and overcomes. Other priorities,
like political events or speaking en-
gagements? All that takes a back seat
to her day job. No sick days. No get-
ting caught in meetings. No losing
track of time in committee. No ex-
cuses. Just days and months and years
of peerless preparation and remarkable
dedication to her Senate duties and to
the Members she is so proud to rep-
resent. Senator COLLINS learned from
her parents, Donald and Patricia, who
each had a turn as mayor of Caribou,
ME, among other achievements.
We know our friend Senator COLLINS
deeply admires her predecessor, Sen-
ator Margaret Chase Smith—another
legendary Maine Republican. Among
her achievements, she stood boldly
against McCarthyism and insisted on
independent thought and fair treat-
ment. But as remarkable as Senator
Margaret Chase Smith was, Senator
COLLINS has surpassed her distin-
guished predecessor in at least one
way: Senator SMITH’s own impressive
string of consecutive votes ended just
shy of 3,000; Senator COLLINS has 7,000
and counting.
She is always prepared, always thor-
oughly well informed, and always
present. That is what today’s mile-
stone tells us, and that is exactly who
Senator COLLINS is every single day.
She is a valued colleague. She is a
friend. And frankly, she is an inspira-
tion. Thank goodness she isn’t stopping
any time soon.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. I just wanted to thank
the majority leader for his very gen-
erous comments, as well as acknowl-
edge the good wishes and congratula-
tions from so many of my colleagues,
including my colleague from Maine,
Senator KING.
This is a momentous occasion for me,
a real milestone. I am proud of the fact
that I have never missed a rollcall vote
during the time I have been privileged
to represent the great State of Maine
in the Senate. There have been some
close calls over the years, but fortu-
nately I have been able to be present
for each one. I realize that I have been
blessed with good health and that when
I had broken ankles, including one that
required surgery, it fortunately hap-
pened over the Christmas break, so
once again I was able to come back and
not miss a vote.
But it is the embodiment of how seri-
ously I take the responsibilities with
which I have been entrusted by the
people of Maine. Voting is a Senator’s
most solemn responsibility, and I feel
strongly about making sure that my
State is represented on each and every
rollcall vote we take in this Chamber.
It hasn’t always been easy, but it is
such a privilege and honor to represent
the people of the great State of Maine.
I thank the majority leader, Senator
MCCONNELL, for acknowledging this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.010 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3640 June 18, 2019
milestone in my tenure in the Senate
and in my service to the people of
Maine and this Nation.
Thank you, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Mr. KING. Mr. President, I want to
join so many of my colleagues and the
majority leader in congratulating my
individual colleague from the State of
Maine on this extraordinary achieve-
ment.
I once was at a meeting with Senator
COLLINS in Maine and had just gotten
my voting record, and I think I missed
two votes out of a couple thousand. I
said to Senator COLLINS: Look, I am
99.2 percent on making all the votes.
She paused for a moment and looked at
me and smiled and said: You will never
catch me. And she was absolutely cor-
rect that the math doesn’t work.
To have made 7,000 consecutive votes
is an extraordinary achievement, par-
ticularly given the logistics of this
place—the logistics of getting back and
forth to Maine. She and I travel back
and forth to Maine frequently together.
But to have achieved this is really
something remarkable in the annals of
the U.S. Senate.
In the 1980s and 1990s, I got to know
one of her predecessors, Senator Mar-
garet Chase Smith, who was a legend in
Maine. Senator SMITH was not only leg-
endary for making every vote but also
for always wearing a red rose. Every
day that she appeared in the Senate,
Senator SMITH wore a red rose. So I
would like to conclude my remarks by
taking a red rose to Senator COLLINS in
recognition of her following in the
footsteps of her illustrious predecessor.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:54 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Contin-
ued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the votes
following the first vote in this series be
10 minutes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON CAIRNCROSS NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Cairncross nomination?
Mr. PERDUE. Madam President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 59,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 167 Ex.]
YEAS—59
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
NOT VOTING—4
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Wyden
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President shall
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, of Texas,
to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas.
Mitch McConnell, John Cornyn, Mike
Crapo, Mike Rounds, David Perdue,
John Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis,
Roger F. Wicker, Johnny Isakson, John
Boozman, Marco Rubio, Kevin Cramer,
Mike Braun, James E. Risch, Pat Rob-
erts, Bill Cassidy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, of Texas, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 52,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 168 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
NOT VOTING—4
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Wyden
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 52, the nays are 44.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Allen Cothrel Winsor, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Florida.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.017 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3641
June 18, 2019
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, John Bar-
rasso, Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, John Thune, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, John Boozman, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Johnny Isakson,
Tim Scott, Mike Braun, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Allen Cothrel Winsor, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Florida, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 54,
nays 42, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 169 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—42
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
NOT VOTING—4
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Wyden
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 54, the nays are 42.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of James David Cain, Jr., of Lou-
isiana, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Louisiana.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, John Bar-
rasso, Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, John Thune, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, John Boozman, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Johnny Isakson,
Tim Scott, Mike Braun, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of James David Cain, Jr., of Louisiana,
to be U.S. District Judge for the West-
ern District of Louisiana shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 76,
nays 20, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 170 Ex.]
YEAS—76
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—20
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Casey
Duckworth
Klobuchar
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Van Hollen
Warren
NOT VOTING—4
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Wyden
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 76, and the nays are
20.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Greg Gerard Guidry, of Louisiana,
to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
Mitch McConnell, John Cornyn, Mike
Crapo, Mike Rounds, David Perdue,
John Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis,
Roger F. Wicker, Johnny Isakson, John
Boozman, Marco Rubio, Kevin Cramer,
Mike Braun, James E. Risch, Pat Rob-
erts, Bill Cassidy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Greg Gerard Guidry, of Louisiana, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 171 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
NOT VOTING—4
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Wyden
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 53, the nays are 43.
The motion is agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.023 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3642 June 18, 2019
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Greg Gerard Guidry, of Lou-
isiana, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Lou-
isiana.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, it
doesn’t matter whether you are watch-
ing FOX News or reading the editorial
page of the New York Times, the
media—indeed the Nation—is in broad
agreement that there is a crisis on our
southern border, and the responsibility
lies squarely with Congress to fix it.
Month after month, the number of
people crossing our border has ticked
up and up and up, and the only people
who seem unfazed by these mind-bog-
gling numbers—144,000 last month
alone—are House Democrats.
Despite continued pleading from offi-
cials at the Department of Homeland
Security, the Department of Health
and Human Services, and some of our
Democratic friends in the House, the
leadership in the House of Representa-
tives is still trying to absolve them-
selves of any responsibility to act.
Well, it is getting harder and harder for
them to ignore this crisis that con-
tinues to get worse on our border. The
recordbreaking number of migrants
who cross our border make a difficult
and dangerous journey to get here.
They travel in the company of human
smugglers, appropriately known by
most as coyotes. These criminal entre-
preneurs do not view the migrants in
their custody as human beings. They
view them as cargo. It is really their
meal ticket.
Coyotes get their customers to the
United States, but a safe journey is not
part of the deal. Migrants, especially
children, often arrive at our border in
poor health, suffering from dehydra-
tion, exposure, any one of a number of
infectious diseases, and, unfortunately,
sadly, many are left for dead by their
smugglers.
Last week, Border Patrol found a
young girl believed to be about 7 years
old from India, dead and alone along
the border in Arizona. The area where
she was found is a rugged desert, and
the temperature that day was 108 de-
grees.
Stories like this are heartbreaking
and more common than many want to
believe. Those who survive the tor-
turous journey from Central America
up through Mexico and into the United
States often arrive in critical health.
The national Border Patrol Council
vice president, Jon Anfinsen, has been
an agent for 12 years and is based in
Del Rio, TX. He said the number of
people in custody and the high rate of
illnesses is ‘‘unprecedented.’’
He has seen cases of scabies, chick-
enpox, mumps, measles, flu, body lice,
and countless common colds. Over-
crowded facilities make these illnesses
spread like wildfire, and even the Bor-
der Patrol agents and people offering
assistance to these migrants are get-
ting sick too. That is because Congress
has not appropriated the money for the
facilities, funding, and for the per-
sonnel to manage these record-break-
ing numbers. They are obviously in
dire need of our assistance.
Last month, the administration re-
quested $4.5 billion for the Department
of Homeland Security, Health and
Human Services, the Department of
Defense, and the Department of Justice
to address this growing crisis.
Two weeks after this request, the sit-
uation had grown so much worse than
expected that the Secretary of Health
and Human Services notified Congress
that the Department would soon be
running out of funding and that an-
other $1.4 billion could be needed for
humanitarian assistance alone. That
brings the total to almost $6 billion.
Since the funding request was sub-
mitted, more than 144,000 individuals
have illegally crossed our border, add-
ing to the growing weight these folks
are feeling.
Without providing the necessary
funding, we are sending these dedicated
law enforcement officials out on a los-
ing mission. We are asking them to
carry the weight of hundreds of thou-
sands of migrants without giving them
the tools they need to do so.
Enough is enough. It is high time
Congress steps up and come to an
agreement to get much needed and
long overdue funding to the men and
women struggling to manage this hu-
manitarian crisis not of their making.
This critical funding is needed along
the entire southern border but particu-
larly in the Rio Grande Valley and El
Paso sectors, which have been dis-
proportionately affected by the dra-
matic increase in crossings.
For months, communities in Texas
have requested help in feeding, trans-
porting, and sheltering these migrants.
They have gone above and beyond the
call of duty, diverting millions of dol-
lars in local taxpayer funds that are
traditionally intended for things like
clean water and power for their own
residents.
Today I am sending a letter to the
Appropriations Committee and asking
them to include assistance to these
communities. The Appropriations Com-
mittee is holding a markup tomorrow,
and I hope they can come to an agree-
ment to provide the Departments,
Agencies, and local communities in
Texas struggling to manage this crisis
with the resources they need to be suc-
cessful. To borrow a saying from Bor-
der Patrol Chief Carla Provost, the cur-
rent situation is akin to holding a
bucket under a faucet. It doesn’t mat-
ter how many buckets you have if you
can’t turn the water off. The emer-
gency funding is a bucket, and hope-
fully it will be a sufficient bucket, but
we still have to get to the source of the
problem.
Last week, Acting Secretary of
Homeland Security Kevin McAleenan
testified before the Judiciary Com-
mittee and said: ‘‘I want to make clear
that this crisis is unlike anything
we’ve ever seen at our border and it, in
large part, is due to the gaps in our im-
migration laws that are driving it,
causing a dramatic demographic shift
in the flow of illegal immigration into
the United States that is placing chil-
dren at unique and critical risk.’’
Of the more than 144,000 people who
illegally crossed the border in May, 69
percent were either unaccompanied
children or families. The number of un-
accompanied children apprehended last
month is larger than any monthly
total from the surge in 2014, back when
President Obama called it ‘‘a humani-
tarian and security crisis.’’ It is an un-
derstatement to say we lack the re-
sources to properly care for these chil-
dren.
In addition to providing more re-
sources and better care, we need to get
to the ‘‘why’’ of these rising numbers.
I have no doubt this surge in humanity
is being driven by the pull factors in
the immigration system, most notably
the Flores settlement agreement. By
‘‘pull factors,’’ I mean the thing that
attracts the migrants to attempt to
make this dangerous journey from
their homes into the United States.
The Flores settlement agreement is
one of them. In the beginning, the Flo-
res settlement agreement provided ad-
ditional standards of care for children,
including a limit on the time they
could remain in DHS custody, but a
subsequent, flawed court ruling ex-
panded this agreement, in effect apply-
ing it to families as well. That essen-
tially turned children into a ‘‘get out
of jail free’’ card for migrants, some-
thing which is now openly advertised
by the coyotes in Central America.
In other words, the coyotes—the
smugglers who earn money off of each
person they bring into the United
States—are letting these people know
that if you just come as a child or if
you come as a family, you are going to
be able to make it successfully into the
United States, and it is a money-mak-
ing proposition, obviously, for them.
A recent Washington Post article
quoted a man as saying the following:
That is the thing that everyone knows
now. If you go, you need to bring a child.
This has gotten so bad that Acting
Secretary McAleenan said the Border
Patrol is now running DNA tests and is
discovering significant numbers of
adults who are claiming a biological
connection to a child that is not theirs.
This is the ultimate ‘‘get out of jail
free’’ card: Bring a child—anybody’s
child.
This loophole has turned into a
major pull factor, and single adults are
using it to their advantage. Rather
than arriving at the border alone, they
are bringing kids with them so they
can pose as a family unit and be re-
leased in 20 days. These aren’t all le-
gitimate families, as I said. It is no ex-
aggeration to say that children are lit-
erally being kidnapped to serve as a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.031 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3643
June 18, 2019
free ticket into the United States.
That is a sad truth.
If we want to stop this abuse of our
system and of these children and bring
down the skyrocketing numbers that
are flooding across our border, we have
to fix this expansion of the Flores
agreement when it comes to family
units.
Last month, Congressman HENRY
CUELLAR of Laredo, TX, a Democrat,
and I introduced a bill called the HU-
MANE Act, which, among other things,
would close this dangerous loophole—
something Congress never enacted and
never intended and which is being ex-
ploited by the coyotes.
Our bill would clarify that the Flores
agreement only applies to children, not
to families, and would remove that pull
factor and prevent single adults from
exploiting them in order to gain entry
into the United States. The HUMANE
Act would make additional, targeted
reforms to make our immigration sys-
tem more fair and efficient and provide
better protection for the children who
are brought here.
Perhaps the most important thing to
note is that this bill already has bipar-
tisan support—something that is tough
to find when it comes to immigration
reform these days. As our friend the
majority leader said on the floor last
week, ‘‘The crisis at the border hasn’t
gone anywhere and neither has our re-
solve to address it.’’
I appreciate my friend and colleague
Congressman HENRY CUELLAR for work-
ing with me on this bill. I hope the bor-
der communities in Texas and along
the entire U.S.-Mexico border will call
and write or go see their Congressman
and say: Get on board with Congress-
man CUELLAR in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
Let’s vote on the HUMANE Act so
the Senate can pass it and send it to
President Trump for signature. I can’t
imagine how people can be at peace
with their own conscience knowing
what is happening right now and sim-
ply sitting on their hands and doing
nothing to address this humanitarian
and security crisis. We owe it to the
dedicated law men and women who
work to manage this crisis along the
border who now are being overwhelmed
by this influx of humanity. Our resolve
to help them remains as strong as ever.
Now what we need is a strong bipar-
tisan vote to get it done.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
NOMINATION OF MATTHEW J. KACSMARYK
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to oppose Matthew
Kacsmaryk’s nomination to the U.S.
District Court for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas. Mr. Kacsmaryk is an-
other example of an extreme choice by
President Trump to jam courts with in-
dividuals who have put their political
views above the law and use their posi-
tions of power to chip away at people’s
rights. Not only are Mr. Kacsmaryk’s
views hateful and out of the main-
stream, but his history of attacking
vulnerable communities shows me he
will not be a fair and impartial judge.
He has fought tooth and nail against
any protections for LGBTQIA individ-
uals and has devoted his career to
stripping this community of these fun-
damental rights.
Mr. Kacsmaryk does not believe title
XII of the Civil Rights Act includes
sexual orientation and gender identity.
He opposed the Supreme Court’s ruling
in Obergefell, which affirmed that
same-sex couples have the right to
marry under our Constitution, and he
opposes the Equality Act. He believes
this bill will ‘‘weaponize Obergefell.’’
The Equality Act builds on existing
civil rights laws to expand anti-dis-
crimination protections, to ensure
members of the LGBTQ community
cannot be fired or evicted from their
homes, providing them with the same
protections afforded to those who are
discriminated against based on their
race, religion, age, disability, and
more.
He believes healthcare providers
should be able to discriminate—dis-
criminate—against patients based on
gender identity or sex stereotyping,
and he even supports discrimination
against our children. Mr. Kacsmaryk
not only opposes protections for
transgender students, he has even ar-
gued that being transgender is ‘‘delu-
sional.’’ He has questioned whether
States can ban conversion therapy
practices, which are dangerous. They
are discredited by the medical commu-
nity, and they have led to depression
and suicidal behavior in young people
subjected to these practices.
Mr. Kacsmaryk claims that his hate-
ful views have to do with religious lib-
erty, but his own words show his true
colors. When Republicans and Demo-
crats in Utah agreed on employment
and housing nondiscrimination protec-
tions based on gender identity and sex-
ual orientation, Mr. Kacsmaryk op-
posed them, even as countless religious
organizations supported that bill.
Was religious liberty his main point
of opposition? No. Instead, he argued
businesses should be able to discrimi-
nate based on a person’s sexual ori-
entation or gender identity because, in
his view, this community does not de-
serve the same protections as other
communities who are often discrimi-
nated against.
Mr. Kacsmaryk has said there is a
‘‘clash of absolutes’’ between LGBTQIA
rights and those who want to discrimi-
nate in the name of religious liberty.
This is not a view of someone who can
be impartial and fair. Not only are his
views on nondiscrimination based on
sexual orientation and gender identity
concerning, I am also very alarmed by
his record as a fervent crusader against
women’s reproductive rights and for
the far-right position that someone
else’s ideology is more important than
a woman’s ability to make her own
personal medical decisions.
If his arguments had won the day in
court, a woman trying to get contra-
ceptive care could face barriers thrown
up at her by her employer or even by
her pharmacy, all because someone
else thinks that their beliefs matter
more than a woman’s own personal de-
cisions about her own healthcare.
Mr. Kacsmaryk’s extreme hostility
to women’s reproductive rights is also
on display in his own writings outside
of the court. He wrote that the court
cases affirming those rights—the his-
toric rulings that have defended wom-
en’s access to birth control and their
right to safe, legal abortion—were re-
sponsible for removing a ‘‘pillar of
marriage law.’’
Under any other administration, this
truly disturbing ideological track
record would be alarming. Unfortu-
nately for President Trump and Vice
President PENCE, it appears to be a pre-
requisite. The Trump-Pence adminis-
tration has taken every opportunity to
undermine women’s health and repro-
ductive rights. And we have seen far-
right Republicans across the country
joining them, from State legislators
working to pass extreme, harmful abor-
tion restrictions to Republicans here in
DC working to jam through extreme,
harmful judicial nominees, like Mr.
Kacsmaryk, who they hope will uphold
blatantly unconstitutional restrictions
on women’s rights to safe, legal abor-
tion and ultimately take away that
right by overturning Roe v. Wade.
I have also been inspired by the peo-
ple around the country who are speak-
ing up and taking a stand against those
extreme views. If we keep making our
voices heard against this nominee and
Republican efforts to undermine wom-
en’s reproductive rights more broadly,
we can stop these attacks and ensure
that every woman has the ability to
make her own decisions about her
body. I am here today to urge my col-
leagues to join us in rejecting this
nominee.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wisconsin.
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise
this afternoon to urge my colleagues to
oppose the confirmation of Matthew
Kacsmaryk to be U.S. District Judge
for the Northern District of Texas.
I believe that every individual we
consider for a lifetime appointment to
serve on the Federal bench should have
the demonstrated legal acumen and ex-
perience but also a commitment to en-
suring fair treatment for anyone who
might come before their court. With a
troubling record of professional work
and personal statements attacking les-
bian, gay, bisexual, and transgender
people, Mr. Kacsmaryk fails this test,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.033 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3644 June 18, 2019
and the Senate must reject his nomina-
tion.
Mr. Kacsmaryk currently serves as
deputy general counsel of First Liberty
Institute, and in that role he has chal-
lenged the constitutionality of the Af-
fordable Care Act, argued against mar-
riage equality, supported schools in
barring transgender students from
using restrooms consistent with their
gender identities, and opposed a State
law requiring that pharmacies stock
emergency contraception.
My colleagues may recall another
nominee associated with this organiza-
tion, Jeff Mateer, who was First Lib-
erty’s general counsel until 2016 and
was nominated by President Trump for
a judgeship in the Eastern District of
Texas. Mateer’s nomination was ulti-
mately withdrawn in light of his public
statements hostile to LGBTQ people,
including that same-sex marriage is
‘‘disgusting’’ and transgender children
are a part of ‘‘Satan’s plan.’’
Mr. Kacsmaryk’s statement and
writings evince a similar hostility to
LGBTQ people and to equality. He has
repeatedly made claims that dismiss
the reality of LGBTQ people’s lives and
experiences. For example, he wrote a
2015 piece entitled ‘‘The Inequality Act:
Weaponizing Same-Sex Marriage,’’ in
which he suggested that the move-
ments for LGBTQ and reproductive
rights are grounded in ‘‘the lie that the
human person is an autonomous blob of
Silly Putty unconstrained by nature or
biology, and that marriage, sexuality,
gender identity, and even the unborn
child must yield to the erotic desires of
liberated adults.’’
In a September 2015 radio interview,
he argued that the movement for
LGBTQ equality is part of a sexual rev-
olution that ‘‘has been typified by law-
lessness and just a complete refusal to
obey basic rule of law principles.’’
He has also been particularly dispar-
aging of transgender individuals. For
example, in August of 2016, he signed
on to a comment to the proposed rule
implementing the Affordable Care
Act’s nondiscrimination provisions. Ar-
guing against the proposal’s protec-
tions for people based on gender iden-
tity, the commenters wrote that
transgender people are suffering from a
‘‘psychological condition in need of
care’’ and are ‘‘not a category of per-
sons in need of special legal protec-
tions.’’ They further cite one psychia-
trist’s opinion—just one psychiatrist—
that a transgender person’s under-
standing of who they are is ‘‘appro-
priately described as a delusion.’’ Fur-
thermore, in an interview discussing
that same rulemaking, Mr. Kacsmaryk
characterized healthcare protections
for transgender people as being ‘‘on the
Obama Administration’s ‘bucket list’
of aggressive sexual revolution items.’’
Finally, Mr. Kacsmaryk has criti-
cized efforts to protect LGBTQ people
from discrimination, even those that
have been supported by both faith
groups and progressive organizations.
In a September 2015 article about the
adoption of Utah’s nondiscrimination
law, he called that effort ‘‘a bad idea
. . . primarily for the problem of the
protected class. Once a protected class
is defined to be equivalent to race, it
takes on a much heavier atomic
weight.’’
These are not words and actions of an
individual whom we can trust to serve
as a neutral arbiter who will recognize
the humanity and dignity of everyone
who comes before him. We have heard
from hundreds of diverse organizations
that oppose his confirmation to a life-
time appointment to the Federal
bench, but perhaps most importantly
we have heard from dozens of parents
of transgender children from all over
the country. They write:
Hundreds of thousands of children and ado-
lescents throughout this country are
transgender, like our kids. So are well over
a million adults. They deserve to be treated
with respect and dignity—and to trust that
when they walk into a courtroom they will
be treated fairly. Confirming [Mr.
Kacsmaryk] as [a federal judge] would send a
damaging and dangerous message that the
dignity of children like ours does not count
in the courts, or in the U.S. Senate.
I note that this is June. This is the
month where we mark LGBTQ pride,
celebrating the contributions of
LGBTQ people and recognizing the
work that remains to be done to ensure
full and equal treatment for all people.
This Pride Month, I urge my col-
leagues to send a message to those
children, their parents, the broader
LGBTQ community, and the country
that they do count—that they count,
they matter, and we hear their voices.
And please reject this nominee.
Thank you.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I would
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss one of the judicial
nominations we are considering. We
are on the floor this afternoon to dis-
cuss the nomination of Matthew J.
Kacsmaryk to be a U.S. district judge
for the Northern District of Texas.
We know that under the Senate rules
we are now operating under, judicial
nominees are receiving just 2 hours of
what is called postcloture consider-
ation, and for that time on the floor,
we are considering a lifetime appoint-
ment to be on the Federal district
court bench or to be a judge on one of
the circuit courts. These are lifetime
appointments, and to have just 2 hours
on any nomination I don’t think is
enough time—I think a lot of Ameri-
cans agree with me—but maybe even
more so when you have a nominee
whose views are, to be understated for
a moment, troubling, views about judi-
cial philosophy or a judicial philosophy
and—a philosophy that I think a lot of
Americans would find extreme.
In this case, the nomination of Mr.
Kacsmaryk is a prime example of why
these nominees for lifetime appoint-
ments warrant a longer time for re-
view. Again, I think that is an under-
statement.
Even at a time when we are on a reg-
ular basis considering nominees who
fall outside of the mainstream and who
tend to fall in a place, in terms of legal
philosophy, that a lot of Americans
would find very concerning—even at a
time when we have considered a lot of
nominees I would consider outside the
mainstream, Mr. Kacsmaryk’s nomina-
tion is particularly troubling. I will use
just two examples, briefly.
The first example is his hostility to
women’s access to safe, affordable, and
FDA-approved contraception. So many
Americans—I think long before the Af-
fordable Care Act but certainly in light
of the Affordable Care Act—consider
access to contraception that is safe, af-
fordable, and FDA-approved—well, I
think most Americans would consider
and should consider that part of a basic
healthcare package. That is the way it
ought to be. But I would hope that a
judge would at least recognize that it
is fundamental to women’s healthcare.
Unfortunately, I don’t think this nomi-
nee does, and that in and of itself is
troubling.
The second example—and these are
only brief overviews in the interest of
time—is Mr. Kacsmaryk has repeatedly
disparaged and attacked the LGBTQ
community. In a public comment in
2016 to the Centers for Medicare & Med-
icaid Services, which is part of the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices and is known as CMS, Mr.
Kacsmaryk argued that transgender in-
dividuals suffer from a ‘‘psychological
condition in need of care’’ and sug-
gested that being transgender was a
‘‘delusion.’’ I have to ask—a delusion?
Where does he come up with that? I
don’t know where one comes up with
that kind of analysis. It doesn’t make
sense to most Americans.
Prior to that, Mr. Kacsmaryk wrote
an article about the Equality Act,
which is bipartisan legislation that is
before the Senate. The Equality Act
would have the effect of—these are my
words; this is not a full description of
it—have the effect of catching up, in
terms of the legal protections provided
to Americans who happen to be gay or
lesbian, bisexual, transgender—have
the protections afforded to them catch
up to those provided to other Ameri-
cans. We finally made progress. More
than 50 years ago now, we had the Civil
Rights Act and other legislation over
time that provided more and more pro-
tection over time to more Americans.
Unfortunately, we don’t have a similar
measure of protections for Americans
who happen to be LGBTQ.
It is literally the case today that in
some States, if you are gay or lesbian,
you could be married in one hour of the
day or on one day and the next day or
the next hour be fired, and that would
be permissible under law. So there are
protections for employment and for ac-
cess to education and housing—the full
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.035 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3645
June 18, 2019
measure of American life. The Equality
Act would ensure those protections.
That is not law yet, and that is why we
have to pass it by way of Federal law.
With that background, I want to go
back to what I previously stated. Mr.
Kacsmaryk wrote an article that sug-
gested that the Equality Act, which I
described, would ‘‘weaponize’’ the
Obergefell decision. That was the land-
mark decision that allowed same-sex
couples to marry. He said the Equality
Act would weaponize that decision,
while in this particular writing making
reference to a ‘‘long war ahead’’ when
discussing LGBTQ rights in a post-
Obergefell America. So in America
after the Obergefell decision, which al-
lowed marriage equality and which
made that part of our Federal law,
thank goodness, after a long time—he
believed that the Equality Act would
be part of a ‘‘long war ahead,’’ when
discussing that future in America.
That doesn’t make sense to me. I don’t
think it makes sense to a lot of Ameri-
cans. I think most Americans believe
that decision for marriage equality was
an advancement where the circle of
protection is growing, as it ought to.
For too long, that circle was very
small—until we had some break-
throughs over the last 50 years. Fortu-
nately, marriage equality—the right to
marry, the right to spend the rest of
your life with someone you love of the
same sex—was finally enshrined into
law by a Supreme Court decision. But
this nominee seems to believe that the
Equality Act would ‘‘weaponize.’’ I
don’t know where you come up with
words like that—‘‘weaponize,’’ ‘‘war.’’
It just doesn’t seem to fit in the Amer-
ica I think most people believe in.
As this is playing out, it just so hap-
pens—and this is offensive. I hope it
wasn’t intentional. I don’t have any
reason to believe it was intentional.
But it just so happens that the major-
ity has this particular nomination on
the floor when we are talking about
these concerns about LGBTQ Ameri-
cans and a particular nominee or
maybe more than one nominee—I am
here to talk about just one. But this is
all playing out this month in the midst
of celebrating LGBTQ Pride Month. So
that is particularly offensive.
Again, I will state for the record that
I don’t have evidence that it was inten-
tional to consider someone with those
views at this particular time, but it is
nonetheless offensive because of the
timing.
The LGBTQ community had to sac-
rifice so much for so long in their fight
for equality and civil rights in the
United States of America, and we have
a lot more work to do. As I indicated,
the Equality Act is not yet law. Even
though it is slightly bipartisan so far,
we need to grow that bipartisanship so
we can get it passed here in the Senate.
I think LGBTQ Americans—frankly,
all Americans—deserve better than a
nominee who suggested that the Equal-
ity Act ‘‘weaponizes’’ the right to
marry the ones they love. I think our
country deserves a judge better than
that, even if it is just for one par-
ticular Federal district court.
I also believe that Americans deserve
a better nominee than Mr.
Kacsmaryk—maybe especially on these
issues that I have raised but generally,
as well. They deserve a nominee who
respects and will protect the rights of
all Americans, especially those Ameri-
cans who have been the subject of on-
going, continuous discrimination—in
this case, LGBTQ Americans.
That discrimination has not abated
or been ripped out by the roots because
we have advancements like the right to
marry or advancements in law. That
discrimination continues. In fact, it is
protected in some ways by the laws of
some States, where you can fire some-
one simply because they are gay and do
that with impunity.
The discrimination continues by way
of hateful acts that people undertake,
but also the discrimination continues
by way of law, as well.
We should have judges in every dis-
trict court, in every circuit court, in
every court in the country—no matter
what level of judicial office we are
talking about—who will respect and
protect every single American.
In this case, I think you have a nomi-
nee who is not just outside of the main-
stream but way outside of the main-
stream, and I think that is why—so far,
at least—he has been the subject of bi-
partisan opposition, and that is pretty
rare around here, as many know. He is
too extreme for this appointment. I
would hope that my colleagues would
vote against him. I know we had one
vote already.
I say all this as someone who has
worked for a long time in a very bipar-
tisan, collaborative way to appoint dis-
trict court judges in Pennsylvania over
and over. Those judges have had the
support of Senator TOOMEY, as well as
my support. A Democratic Senator and
a Republican Senator have worked to-
gether on a number of appointments.
We are getting close to 20 now, I think,
since we have served together since
2011. I think we are at 19, if I haven’t
lost count. That means that we both
have worked together to review, to
scrutinize, and to decide whether to
support a judge who might come from
a Democratic nomination and might be
supported by me and by my office, as
well as a nominee supported by my col-
league Senator TOOMEY. Over time,
that means that Democratic judges, or
someone nominated by a Democratic
Senator and a Democratic White House
a couple of years ago, and Republican
nominees, nominated by a Republican
Senator and a Republican White House,
have been given consideration, review,
and then confirmation.
I am someone who takes his responsi-
bility seriously. I have a long and dis-
tinguished record of working in this
process to make sure that we get Fed-
eral district court judges from dif-
ferent points of view nominated by
both Senators of both parties who meet
that test, not judges who just meet the
test of competence but also meet the
test of being within the mainstream.
Again, this means a judge who will re-
spect and protect every single Amer-
ican. I think that is not asking too
much of any nominee, no matter what
district court.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BORDER SECURITY
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, I
rise today to discuss what is happening
at our southern border, and I call upon
my colleagues in Congress to act
quickly to address this humanitarian
crisis.
Last month, terrifying reports sur-
faced of an illegal immigrant from
Guatemala who traveled with an 8-
year-old boy across the U.S.-Mexico
border near Arizona. When Border Pa-
trol agents apprehended him, the man
claimed that the boy was his son, but
the agents learned 4 days later that he
wasn’t.
According to the Arizona Daily Star,
Homeland Security investigations re-
ported that the man claimed that ‘‘he
had looked for a child in Guatemala to
cross the United States-Mexico inter-
national border with as he was told
that it was easier to get into the
United States with a child.’’ The illegal
immigrant allegedly paid the boy
about $130 to ‘‘rent the child’’ and an
additional $130 for a fake birth certifi-
cate.
Tragically, this is a story we are
hearing more and more about as the
border crisis rages on. Homeland Secu-
rity investigators are working to un-
derstand the extent of troubling cases
on our border, where adults are using
children who have no family relation in
order for them to become eligible for
release after they are apprehended. The
practice has been occurring frequently
enough that the Department of Home-
land Security now refers to it as ‘‘child
recycling rings.’’
Smugglers and cartels are well aware
of legal loopholes that incentivize
these criminals to manipulate vulner-
able populations. Our current legal
framework makes it easier to turn a
profit by smuggling individuals with
young children.
DHS has recorded nearly 4,800 mi-
grants in 2019 who have falsely identi-
fied themselves as family units.
Recently, we received the welcome
news that the Trump administration
reached a deal with Mexico to ensure
better immigration enforcement at the
border. This agreement was an impor-
tant step in the right direction at a
time when our Nation needs it most.
Both countries have declared a shared
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:10 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.037 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3646 June 18, 2019
goal of upholding the rule of law on
both sides of the border. I am grateful
for the President’s hard work to secure
our border, to keep this country safe,
and to continue our trade with a key
partner.
This deal is a critical step forward,
and it is taking place not a moment
too soon. Illegal border crossings at the
southern border have reached stag-
gering rates this past spring. Last
March alone, there were more than
103,000 apprehensions, and in April
there were another 109,000. In May ap-
prehensions at points of entry reached
over 144,000. That is a 32-percent in-
crease over the month of April. We
have had over 100,000 apprehensions on
the border each month for 3 months in
a row. Sustained numbers like these
haven’t been witnessed in over 12
years.
The question remains: What concrete
steps are we taking as a nation to stop
this?
Our Border Patrol agents, who are
working as hard as they possibly can,
cannot keep up with the record surge
of people coming into our country
without authorization. Our ability to
provide the care and attention for de-
tained individuals is at a breaking
point.
As we know, this includes tens of
thousands of innocent children. Acting
Secretary McAleenan recently testified
at a Senate Judiciary Committee
where he noted that in the last 40 days
alone, DHS has taken into custody
60,000 children. He also testified last
month that border officials saw a
record day of over 5,800 border cross-
ings in a single 24-hour period. This
comes in addition to the largest single
group ever apprehended at our border—
1,036 people.
Facilities along the border haven’t
just reached full capacity. They are
overflowing. On June 10, the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services re-
ported that they had fewer than 700
beds available to place 1,900 unaccom-
panied children who had already been
processed by Customs and Border Pro-
tection. This is forcing HHS to place
children with sponsors at higher rates
than the program has experienced in
its history. It also increases pressure
to find space for the influx of children
within CBP facilities, which were not
built for this purpose in any way.
HHS desperately needs additional
funding to expand its bed capacity so
that they can keep pace with the in-
creasing numbers of unaccompanied
children. At this rate, HHS may not
have the necessary funding to continue
their care programs beyond the month
of June.
The situation is clear. Congress needs
to act, and we need to act right now.
Chairman SHELBY recently announced
that the Senate Appropriations Com-
mittee will vote soon on a $4.5 billion
package. Over $3 billion would be di-
rected to help resolve the humani-
tarian crisis by increasing the care for
unaccompanied children and expanding
those shelter facilities. The remaining
$1 billion would fortify our security
missions.
To the ears of the American people,
this may sound like an overdue, com-
monsense relief effort, and that is be-
cause it is. Unfortunately, our Demo-
cratic friends have prioritized their
starring role in the political theater
over our country’s emergency at the
southern border.
Over 6 weeks ago, the administration
sent an urgent plea to Congress asking
for more money to secure our border
and improve the conditions for tens of
thousands of children. It is unaccept-
able that Democrats in the House and
right here in the Senate are playing
politics at a time when our Nation
needs stability.
In the coming weeks, Senate Repub-
licans will be waiting at the table to
work toward bipartisan solutions to
address the crisis at the border and
provide the funding that is desperately
needed. I hope that my Democratic col-
leagues will meet us there.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF MATTHEW J. KACSMARYK
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, sometime tomorrow, this body
will consider a number of nominations
for final confirmation, among them the
nomination of Matthew Kacsmaryk to
the U.S. District Court for the North-
ern District of Texas.
A Federal district judge serves a par-
ticular area of the country, but in fact,
the whole country has a stake in this
nomination because a judge helps to
define and refine and apply the law of
the United States, setting precedent
that applies to the entire country. It
isn’t just the Northern District of
Texas that has a stake in this nomina-
tion; it is the entire country. So this
alarming and appalling nomination
should be of particular interest to my
colleagues.
It is the result of a process that, very
unfortunately, has been demeaned and
degraded. It is a shadow of what it once
was. In the scrutiny that is given and
the time that is devoted, this process is
failing to assure the independence of
the judiciary. Now is the time when
that independence must be assured be-
cause, from this time forward, these
judges will be lifetime appointees and
will have no accountability to this
body or to any other elected official.
In previous years, under other Repub-
lican administrations, there was an
adequate time to debate; there were
full and fair hearings; and nominees
answered questions about their views
on issues that were relevant to their
service. That process has been severely
undercut—indeed, decimated now.
What we have before us, again and
again and again, are nominees who fail
to meet the basic test of intellect and
integrity and responsibility.
I look at all of the records of nomi-
nees before us and ask them questions
to determine what their basic values
are—whether they think particular Su-
preme Court precedents were correctly
decided, like Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation and Roe v. Wade—because it is a
view into their basic commitments to
constitutional principles that are deep-
ly and ideally settled. Matthew
Kacsmaryk fails that test.
If there is a principle enshrined in
our Constitution that matters more
than any other, it is the idea that ev-
eryone is equal before the law. No one
is above the law. No one is less entitled
to rights than anyone else. Everyone is
equal regardless of race, gender, eth-
nicity and regardless of who you are,
how much you own, or where you were
born. Mr. Kacsmaryk seems to lack re-
spect for this basic principle. In fact,
his career is defined by active opposi-
tion to the treatment of minority
groups.
In 2016, he submitted an amicus brief
that supported a Virginia school
board’s policy that a student must use
the restroom that corresponds to the
student’s biological gender.
Also, in 2016, he sent a letter to the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services and argued that the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services
should not require hospitals to conduct
sex reassignment surgeries for
transgender individuals. He wrote in
that letter that transgender people suf-
fer from a ‘‘psychological condition, in
need of care’’ and are ‘‘not in a cat-
egory of person in need of special legal
protection.’’ He went so far as to say
the experiences of transgender people
are ‘‘irrational’’ and ‘‘delusional.’’
In light of these and other state-
ments, I have received numerous let-
ters from the parents of transgender
people. They have written in fear and
alarm that someone with such offen-
sive, extreme, medically inaccurate
views could be promoted to a lifetime
position within the Federal judiciary—
a position that will give him power
over the lives of exactly these individ-
uals who seek equality under the law.
Seventeen of our House colleagues—
some of them parents and grandparents
of transgender people—have written to
us and expressed their concern that
someone with such hostile views to-
ward LGBTQ Americans could possibly
be confirmed as a judge.
Our colleagues in the House are con-
cerned about the decisions we are mak-
ing here because they respect these in-
dividuals.
Kacsmaryk has also repeatedly made
public his opposition to marriage
equality and the equal treatment of
same-sex couples.
He submitted an amicus brief in
Obergefell v. Hodges, urging the Su-
preme Court to not extend the right of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.039 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3647
June 18, 2019
marriage to same-sex couples. He,
thankfully, did not prevail in that view
because the Court upheld the rights of
same-sex couples to be married, and he
continued his opposition to marriage
equality by representing the owners of
an Oregon bakery who refused to bake
a cake for same-sex couples.
He testified in favor of legislation
the Texas Observer described as a ‘‘li-
cense to discriminate’’ adoption bill
that would permit adoption agencies to
refuse to place children with same-sex
couples.
Many in Congress, including myself,
worked to pass the Equality Act, which
would reflect the core of the Supreme
Court’s ruling by adding sexual ori-
entation and gender identity to the
Federal code’s list of protected classes.
He has referred to this effort as a
weaponization of Obergefell that seeks
the public affirmation of the ‘‘erotic
desires of liberated adults.’’
Even as I recite these quotes, I can
hardly believe that at this moment in
our history, at this time of awareness
among informed and tolerant people
who believe in inclusiveness and equal
justice under the law, that someone
nominated to this position of para-
mount responsibility would have these
views and articulate them in this way.
If the Equality Act were to become
law and face a challenge in Judge
Kacsmaryk’s court, could litigants feel
comfortable or confident that they
would receive a fair hearing? Is there
any gay, lesbian, transgender, or non-
binary person who would feel their case
would receive a nonbiased treatment in
his court?
I have such deep doubts, as should
my colleagues, that I cannot vote for
him. I will oppose his nomination, and
I hope my colleagues will join me in
voting no on Matthew Kacsmaryk.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. For the informa-
tion of all Senators, at 3:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 19, the Senate will
vote on confirmation of the following
nominations in the order listed, and if
confirmed, the motions to reconsider
shall be considered made and laid upon
the table and the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action:
Executive Calendar Nos. 22, 28, 50, and
118. Under the previous order, the clo-
ture motion on the motion to proceed
to S. 1790 will ripen following disposi-
tion of Executive Calendar No. 118.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session to be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO PASTOR DAVE STONE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
all of God’s children are blessed with
certain gifts, and we are each called to
put them to work to glorify Him.
Today, it is my sincere privilege to pay
tribute to my friend who has answered
this call and used his considerable gifts
with compassion and grace. At the end
of May, Dave Stone stepped down as
the senior pastor of Southeast Chris-
tian Church in Louisville, KY. I would
like to take a moment to honor his
years of pastoral leadership and to sin-
cerely thank him for his care and dedi-
cation to our church family.
Elaine and I have been attending
Southeast for nearly two decades,
drawn by the moving preaching and the
warm community. Dave has been an in-
tegral part of that spiritual life for 30
years, and there are so many of us in
Louisville who have been made better
by his friendship and leadership.
Throughout his 13 years as senior pas-
tor, Dave was our shepherd and used
his many talents to point tens of thou-
sands to the Lord.
When Dave first joined Southeast, his
devotion to Christ and His church in-
stantly became clear. Dave came not
only with an inspirational vision, but
also with a deep sense of humility. To
anyone who walked into this church,
he made a point to welcome them like
a lifelong friend. In both the easy and
the difficult times, Dave shared his
sense of joy in everything he did for
the church. His warmth and humor
made a positive and tangible impact on
me and many other members.
Dave assumed the responsibility of
senior pastor after the retirement of
Bob Russell, who had served the church
community in leadership roles for 40
years. The next year, Southeast an-
nounced the establishment of a second
location, a remarkable sign of growth
and a testament to Dave’s leadership.
Southeast has continued adding more
campuses to the church, and now it
reaches believers on TV, on the radio,
and at seven locations. Through this
development, Southeast has become
the largest church in Kentucky and the
seventh largest in the entire country.
Southeast’s impressive growth also
brought more responsibilities for Dave,
his team, and his family. Whatever
challenge presented itself over the
years, Dave’s skilled ministry helped
the community thrive. Thousands of
people have watched Dave preach, re-
lied on his mentorship, and enjoyed his
friendship.
Dave admitted that he hates the
word ‘‘retirement,’’ but he also knew it
was time to pass the baton. When he
announced his departure, Dave ex-
pressed his deep gratitude to the
church leadership, staff, and all the
faithful. He once again showed himself
the humble pastor who fulfilled his
mission from God.
Now that he has officially stepped
down as Southeast’s senior pastor,
Dave is looking for his next calling. I
am confident he will continue using his
many gifts to draw the faithful to the
Lord. He will also get to spend more
time with his wife Beth, his children,
and his grandchildren. Although Elaine
and I will certainly miss his Christian
spirit and good humor, we wish Dave
and his family all the best on their
next adventure.
f
NOMINATION OF MATTHEW J.
KACSMARYK
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
I rise today in opposition to the nomi-
nation of Matthew Kacsmaryk to the
United States District Court for the
Northern District of Texas.
June is the month that we recognize
as Pride Month to celebrate the lesbian
and gay community and to acknowl-
edge that individuals should not be dis-
criminated against on the basis of their
sexual orientation; yet, today we are
voting on a nominee, Mr. Kacsmaryk,
whose career has been defined by oppo-
sition to the rights of LGBT Ameri-
cans. He has argued against marriage
equality and defended a company that
refused to provide service to a same-
sex couple, simply based on their sex-
ual orientation.
It is disappointing that the Senate is
moving forward on his nomination, and
even more disappointing that the ma-
jority has scheduled this vote during
Pride Month.
Mr. Kacsmaryk ’s long record of op-
posing civil rights protections for
LGBT Americans should disqualify him
from service on the bench. They dem-
onstrate that he puts his personal opin-
ion above Supreme Court precedent.
Specifically, I want to highlight
some key positions in his record.
In 2015, Mr. Kashmir made comments
deeply critical of United States v.
Windsor, the case that struck down the
Defense of Marriage Act, or DOMA. Mr.
Kacsmaryk claimed that the Obama
administration, which refused to de-
fend DOMA, had ‘‘effectively collabo-
rated with the adversary.’’ Mr.
Kacsmaryk’s comments make clear
that he believes those fighting for the
right of LGBT American, including the
right to marry, are adversaries. Some-
one making a statement like this
should quite simply not be a Federal
judge.
He likewise claimed in a radio inter-
view that efforts to achieve marriage
equality were marked by ‘‘lawless-
ness,’’ adding that the Justice Depart-
ment’s refusal to defend DOMA was an
‘‘abuse of rule of law principles.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JN6.041 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3648 June 18, 2019
Also in 2015, Mr. Kacsmaryk sub-
mitted a brief in Obergefell v. Hodges,
the landmark Supreme Court case that
guaranteed marriage equality.
Mr. Kacsmaryk urged the Court to
deny that the 14th Amendment ex-
tended to the right of same-sex couples
to marry. He argued that finding a na-
tionwide right to marriage equality
would violate the free speech rights of
those who oppose same-sex marriage on
religious grounds, and he claimed that
allowing gay couples to marry would
‘‘silence religious dissenters who con-
tinue to hold to their millennia-old
definition of marriage.’’ The Supreme
Court disagreed.
In 2016, Mr. Kacsmaryk continued his
efforts opposing the civil rights of
LGBT individuals by defending a com-
pany that refused to sell a wedding
cake to a same-sex couple, simply be-
cause they were gay.
Mr. Kacsmaryk denied that the busi-
ness had refused to sell the cake be-
cause of the customers’ sexual orienta-
tion. Instead, he claimed that the law
prohibiting discrimination against
LGBT individuals ‘‘forc[ed] business
owners to publicly facilitate cere-
monies, rituals, and other expressive
events with which they have funda-
mental’’ disagreements.
Businesses should not be permitted
to discriminate against customers be-
cause of their sexual orientation, but
in Matthew Kacsmaryk’s opinion, it is
completely acceptable to do just that.
Throughout his career, Mr.
Kacsmaryk has taken particularly of-
fensive positions on the rights of
transgender Americans, including
transgender youth.
He has argued that being transgender
is a ‘‘delusion.’’
He also signed onto a letter claiming
that transgender people are suffering
from a ‘‘psychological condition in
need of care,’’ and are ‘‘not a category
of persons in need of special legal pro-
tection.’’
Taken together, these positions show
that Mr. Kacsmaryk has strong per-
sonal beliefs and is opposed to defend-
ing civil rights of gay and lesbian indi-
viduals.
Further, when asked during his hear-
ing whether he would recuse himself
from cases involving LGBT individuals,
Mr. Kacsmaryk refused. When asked in
written questions how his record did
not create an appearance of impro-
priety when it comes to deciding cases
on gay rights, Mr. Kacsmaryk simply
cited the Federal recusal statute, re-
fusing to answer the question directly.
In addition, Mr. Kacsmaryk has also
worked to undermine women’s access
to reproductive healthcare.
For example, he argued that the Af-
fordable Care Act’s contraceptive cov-
erage requirement was unconstitu-
tional, and then later claimed that the
Obama administration’s religious ac-
commodation to that requirement was
likewise unconstitutional.
Without any evidence, Mr.
Kacsmaryk accused the Obama admin-
istration of treating religious protec-
tions ‘‘as a secondary consideration.’’
With respect to the accommodation,
which required nonprofit organizations
to submit a one-page form to their in-
surer noting their objections, Mr.
Kacsmaryk claimed the government
was ‘‘forc[ing] religious objectors to
provide material aid to those who
would commit the ultimately wrongful
act’’ of providing contraceptives.
He also argued that a Washington
State statute requiring all pharmacies
to stock emergency contraceptives vio-
lated the rights of religious phar-
macists. The statute permitted indi-
vidual pharmacists to decline to fill
prescriptions that ran contrary to
their religious beliefs.
But this was not enough for Mr.
Kacsmaryk, who argued that the phar-
macies themselves should be exempt
from the statute. He also claimed that
in seeking to provide contraception to
women, Washington had ‘‘radically
depart[ed] from the nationwide con-
sensus protecting conscience rights’’
for health care professionals.
The Supreme Court declined to hear
the case.
Given the positions he has taken in
litigation and the inflammatory com-
ments he has made in his personal ca-
pacity, I am concerned Mr. Kacsmaryk
will not bring the temperament needed
to demonstrate respect for all litigants
that we expect from all Federal judges.
I am voting against Mr. Kacsmaryk
because I believe his record shows he is
far outside the legal mainstream, and I
urge my colleagues to do the same.
Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, this
month, many of us are celebrating
Pride Month and reaffirming the rights
and freedoms of the LGBTQ commu-
nity. We also celebrated the fight for
equal rights for women with the 100th
anniversary of the passage and ratifica-
tion of the 19th Amendment, which
gave women the right to vote.
But instead of celebrating these
rights and freedoms, here is what Sen-
ate Republicans have in store for us.
This week, they will confirm a Federal
judge to a lifetime appointment who
has devoted his career to advocating
against the rights of LGBTQ people
and women under the guise of religious
liberty.
Through his actions as a lawyer and
private citizen, Matthew Kacsmaryk,
the nominee for the Northern District
of Texas, has made his hostility to-
wards LGBTQ individuals, marriage
equality, and reproductive rights clear.
As deputy general counsel for the
First Liberty Institute, Kacsmaryk
urged the Supreme Court in Obergefell
v. Hodges to rule that there is no na-
tionwide right to same-sex marriage.
After the Supreme Court disagreed
with him, Kacsmaryk wrote an article
criticizing not only Obergefell, but also
the Court’s decision in Roe v. Wade. He
argued that the fight for marriage
equality and reproductive rights were
‘‘ ‘radical’ . . . demands’’ of the ‘‘Sex-
ual Revolution.’’ In his view, this Sex-
ual Revolution ‘‘sought public affirma-
tion of the lie that the human person is
an autonomous blob of Silly Putty un-
constrained by nature or biology, and
that marriage, sexuality, gender iden-
tity, and even the unborn child must
yield to the erotic desires of liberated
adults.’’
As a lawyer, Kacsmaryk advocated
for employers who objected to pro-
viding contraceptive coverage as part
of the healthcare required under the
Affordable Care Act on religious
grounds. Outside of the courtroom, he
continued his advocacy against repro-
ductive rights. In a 2016 interview, he
complained about ‘‘imposition of a sec-
ular judgment on an essentially sacred
question’’ in the contraceptive man-
date cases. He pointed to the First
Amendment concerns of religious ac-
tors while failing to mention that the
use of contraception is constitutionally
protected.
Kacsmaryk also urged the Supreme
Court to allow a Virginia school board
to require students to use the restroom
corresponding to their ‘‘biological gen-
der’’ and a State labor and industry
board in Oregon to let a bakery refuse
to make same-sex wedding cakes. It is
no wonder that more than 200 groups
oppose his nomination, including
Lambda Legal and 74 other LGBT and
allied groups, the National Women’s
Law Center, and AFL–CIO.
Earlier this year, I entered a letter
into the record from about 300 parents
of transgender children who opposed
Kacsmaryk’s nomination ‘‘because of
his demeaning attacks on transgender
children and adults.’’ In their letter,
these parents pointed to Mr.
Kacsmaryk’s efforts to ‘‘repeatedly
promote [ ] fringe, junk science about
transgender people, claiming that gen-
der identity doesn’t exist and that
being transgender is a ‘delusion.’ ’’
They explain why his actions are so
concerning and why his nomination
makes them fear for their children.
They wrote: ‘‘Kacsmaryk’s words are
deeply offensive and harmful. . . . Our
children are not a delusion, and neither
is our love and support for them. We
believe our children are miracles, like
every child.’’
Despite Kacsmaryk’s offensive state-
ments and extensive record against the
LGBT community, he is being rushed
to confirmation during Pride Month
because Majority Leader MCCONNELL
and Donald Trump are intent on pack-
ing the courts with deeply partisan
judges with extreme ideological agen-
das.
While our friends in the House have
been busy passing bill after bill to pro-
tect women from violence, reduce
senseless gun violence, and ensure that
all Americans have access to affordable
healthcare, Senate Republicans have
ignored these bipartisan bills and
maintained their single-minded focus
on confirming extreme judges. That is
because Senate Republicans are trying
to accomplish extreme, conservative
outcomes through the courts that they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.012 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3649
June 18, 2019
been unable to achieve through legisla-
tion. As Majority Leader MCCONNELL
previously explained, legislation can be
repealed, but ‘‘[w]hat can’t be undone
is a lifetime appointment.’’
In the past, this lifetime appoint-
ment was viewed as an important pro-
tection to ensure courts remained inde-
pendent and fair minded. Now, it is
being weaponized as a tool to enforce
extreme, conservative policies through
the confirmation of deeply partisan
and ideologically driven judicial nomi-
nees.
In the past 2-and-a-half years, we
have seen why it is so critical to have
fair and independent courts. As Senate
Republicans race to pack the courts
with more and more partisan judges
with extreme ideologies, the integrity
and independence of the Federal judici-
ary is at stake.
Americans must be able to trust that
courts act fairly and impartially to
protect the rights of all Americans.
That is why I will vote against Mat-
thew Kacsmaryk’s nomination today.
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
AMERICAN LEGION
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President,
today I wish to recognize the 100th an-
niversary of the American Legion. Fol-
lowing the end of World War I, the gen-
eration who fought the war to end all
wars created an organization dedicated
to the protection and defense of all vet-
erans who answered the call of duty.
The American Legion has been our
Nation’s leading advocate for proper
healthcare and earned benefits for
America’s veterans, establishing hos-
pitals and other services for the return-
ing servicemembers of World War I.
The Legion champions compensation
and pensions for the disabled and for
widows and orphans and was instru-
mental in creating the Veterans Ad-
ministration in 1930. It also played an
important role in the enactment of the
GI Bill of Rights, first for World War II
veterans, and then for veterans of fol-
lowing eras, establishing education, vo-
cational training, and home loan bene-
fits.
Known as the father of the American
Legion, Lt. Colonel Theodore Roo-
sevelt, Jr., son of President Roosevelt,
organized the first caucus of the Amer-
ican Legion in Paris in March 1919. The
meeting continued in St. Louis in May
1919 where the official name was adopt-
ed. A preamble and constitution were
adopted during the first National
American Legion Convention in Min-
neapolis in November 1919. The pre-
amble became one of the fundamental
tenets of the American Legion’s ori-
entation and objectives, beginning
with: ‘‘For God and Country we asso-
ciate ourselves together for the fol-
lowing purposes:
To uphold and defend the Constitu-
tion of the United States of America;
to maintain law and order; to foster
and perpetuate a 100 Percent Ameri-
canism; to preserve the memories and
incidents of our association in the
Great War; to inculcate a sense of indi-
vidual obligation to the community,
state, and nation; to combat the autoc-
racy of both the classes and the
masses; to make right the master of
might; to promote peace and good will
on earth; to safeguard and transmit to
prosperity the principles of justice,
freedom, and democracy; to consecrate
and sanctify our comradeship by devo-
tion to mutual helpfulness.’’
Through the work of American Le-
gionnaires, those same words remain
compelling today. With members rep-
resented in all facets of our culture, in-
cluding Presidents, Governors, Acad-
emy award winning actors, professional
sports players, and Members of Con-
gress, the American Legion played a
role in many of America’s triumphs.
Today’s Legionnaires, known for their
legacy of patriotism, service, sacrifice,
and community, continue the march.
They dedicate their time and service to
ensure these doctrines remain the
heart of the American Legion.
The American Legion has deep roots
in Wyoming’s history. Wyoming was
represented in both Paris and St. Louis
and at the first National Convention in
Minneapolis. True to their pioneering
nature, Wyoming’s Ferdinand
Bransetter Post No. 1 organized to sit-
uate themselves at the forefront of the
Legion organization. However, due to
the bureaucracy encountered by the
first posts, Van Tassell was actually
among the first 10 posts to be char-
tered.
In October 1919, Wyoming held its
First American Legion Convention,
hosted by Samuel Mares Post No. 8 in
Douglas. The first department officers
included Commander Charles S. Hill
and Adjutant Harry Fisher. Depart-
ment headquarters was originally in
Casper, later moving to Cheyenne as
membership gradually grew to a high
of 10,805 in 1949.
Today’s Wyoming American Legions
continues to care for their comrades.
As leaders in their communities, they
demonstrate honor and respect for vet-
erans and their loved ones. They ac-
tively support numerous youth pro-
grams including Boys and Girls State,
the Child Welfare Fund, Boy Scouts,
baseball, and scholarship programs.
Their accomplishments continue to
grow as they serve our veterans, their
families, and our communities.
Today’s Wyoming American Legion
is comprised of 57 posts. Their leader-
ship includes Commander Richard F.
Dansereau, Jr., Vice Commander Mike
Cooke, 2nd Vice Commander Jerry
Clark, Immediate Past Commander
Kenneth V. Persson, Sr., Finance Offi-
cer Deanna Hurless, National Execu-
tive Committeeman Terry Miller, Al-
ternate National Executive Com-
mitteeman Doug Uhrig, Adjutant Lee
Buchschacher, Department Service Of-
ficer Dwight Null, Service Officer
Michelle Jones, Historian Penny
Merryfield, Chaplain Jim Vandivort,
Judge Advocate Gary Hartman, and Of-
fice Manager Gina Mayhan.
Current posts and their commanders
are:
Commander Post Town
Dale Miller .......................... Ferdinand Bransetter Post
#1.
Van Tassel
Rich Larimore ..................... George W. Vroman Post #2 Casper
Donald Dafoe ...................... George Monroe Post #3 ..... Newcastle
David Shaner ...................... Wieten-Dupes Post #4 ....... Lusk
Michael Sinner ................... Travis Snow Post #5 ......... Torrington
Jerry Bowen ........................ Francis E. Self Post #6 ..... Cheyenne
James Schlenker ................. John Donald Garbutt Post
#7.
Sheridan
Doug Johnson ..................... Samuel Mares Post #8 ...... Douglas
Marvin Wohletz ................... Jesse Martin Post #9 ........ Glenrock
Darrel Curry ........................ Ora Call Post #10 ............. Wheatland
Rich Fink ............................ Robert Boyd Stewart Post
#11.
Lovell
Don Sillivan ........................ Powder River Post #13 ...... Buffalo
Jonathan Storey .................. Husted-Pendleton Post #14 Laramie
Adam Blackburn ................. John Prince Post #15 ........ Glendo
Nate Messenger .................. Walter Haynes Post #18 .... Thermopolis
Warren Hess ....................... Riverton Post #19 ............. Riverton
John West ........................... Fred Coe Post #20 ............ Cody
Michael Pavlica .................. Robert Hogan Post #21 ..... Cheyenne
Michael Hobbs .................... Archie Hay Post #24 ......... Rock Springs
Tim Wattenberg .................. Moorcroft Post #25 ............ Moorcroft
Jerry Clark .......................... Hughes-Pittinger Post #26 Powell
Thomas Niemiec ................. Tom Whitmore Post #28 .... Green River
John Bubla ......................... Marian Tanner Post #29 ... Basin
Douglas Cubbison .............. Philip Burlington Post #31 Dubois
Paul Linse .......................... Greybull Post #32 .............. Greybull
Mark Keiser ........................ Don Stough Post #33 ........ Lander
Brian Sartor ........................ Fort Bridger Post #36 ....... Ft. Bridger
Norm Freeman .................... Lavoy-Thorncock Post #40 Cokeville
Michael Erickson, Jr. .......... Medicine Butte Post #41 .. Evanston
Jerry Walters ....................... Campbell County Post #42 Gillette
John Sherwood .................... Jackson Hole Post #43 ...... Jackson
Joshua Craft ....................... Floyd Minch Post #44 ....... Worland
Jimmy Bowman .................. Crook County Post #45 ..... Sundance
Daniel Corun ...................... American Legion Post #46 Alpine
Brandon Shriver ................. Phillips Edwards Post #47 Pinedale
Charles Sutter .................... Star Valley Post #49 ......... Afton
Steve Wilcoxson .................. Angus England Post #54 .. Saratoga
Robert Bowen ..................... Kemmerer Post #55 ........... Kemmerer-
Diamondville
Ricardo Nelson ................... Marlyn B. Anderson Post
#56.
Veteran
John Wise ........................... Donald W. Eisenhauer Post
#60.
Pine Bluffs
Albert Oakley ...................... Washakie Post #61 ........... Pavillion
David Kendall ..................... Reed-Gobble Post #63 ...... Lingle
Marion McCartney .............. William Home Post #64 .... Medicine Bow
Donald Kessler ................... John Mcgill Post #70 ........ LaGrange
Robert Kissel ...................... Mcdonald And Voight Post
#75.
Chugwater
Ronnie Olson ...................... Boyce Marlatt Post #77 .... Albin
Spencer Nichols .................. Dee Fox Post #78 .............. Big Piney-
Marbleton
Keith Davidson ................... Roy Montgomery Post #80 Hulett
Wyman Weed, Sr. ............... Richard Pogue Post #81 ... Ft. Washakie
James Yockey ..................... James Oliver Hogg Post
#85.
Meeteetse
Ray Fritz ............................. Labarge Post #88 .............. LaBarge
Robert Perry, Jr. .................. Hole In The Wall Post #90 Kaycee
Kelly Colvin ......................... Heart Mountain Post #91 .. Cody
Jack Flores .......................... Garcia-Castaneda Post
#93.
Cheyenne
Nick Schwab ....................... J.J. Webb Post #95 ............ Guernsey
Martin Blackburn ............... Araoaho Warriors-CPL Bill
Farris Post #96.
Arapaho
Mike Sherr .......................... Hittner Engstrom-Duncan
Post #122.
Rawlins
The American Legion is more than
the names of men who fell on the bat-
tlefield in the name of freedom, liberty
and democracy. They are more than
buildings or posts. They are the life-
blood of our country, endowed with the
never-ending spirit of patriotism and
liberty. They will never quit, they will
never falter and will always complete
their mission. America and the State
of Wyoming are better for it.
f
TRIBUTE TO STANLEY P. LAWRUK,
SR.
Mr. COONS. Madam President, on the
75th anniversary of D-Day, I wish to
honor a member of our Greatest Gen-
eration, Stanley P. ‘‘Lucky’’ Lawruk,
Sr., of Wilmington, DE. Stanley P.
Lawruk, a lifelong Delawarean, served
in the U.S. Army Air Corps at the Bat-
tle of Normandy and throughout World
War II.
On D-Day, June 6, 1944, 20-year-old
Technical Sergeant Stanley Lawruk
was on his fourth combat mission as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.014 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3650 June 18, 2019
both the flight engineer and top turret
gunner on a Boeing B–17G Flying For-
tress. Sergeant Lawruk and his fellow
crewmen were part of the 327th Bom-
bardment Squadron, 92nd Bomb Group,
known as Fame’s Favored Few.
His squadron’s mission on D-Day was
to target and destroy the marshalling
yards and industrial center at Thury-
Harcourt in Normandy, France. As the
dorsal turret gunner, Sergeant Lawruk
manned twin 50-caliber machineguns
located just above the cockpit of his
bomber.
‘‘I saw all the ships go across the
channel,’’ Stan said in a 2014 interview.
‘‘They were so thick, you could almost
walk across the channel [on them]. And
you could see the troops.’’ Sergeant
Stan Lawruk survived D-Day and the
many follow-on missions of the Nor-
mandy campaign. After more than 20
combat flights, Lucky Lawruk had
earned his nickname.
On his 26th mission, Stan Lawruk’s
luck ran out. On August 25, 1944, Stan’s
B–17 was on a bombing mission to de-
stroy a V–2 rocket experimental sta-
tion located along the coast of
Peenemünde, Germany. There, his Fly-
ing Fortress fell victim to anti-aircraft
batteries below.
‘‘A direct hit blew off the propeller
on our number four engine. That in
turn tore a large hole in our right
wing,’’ Stan said in a 1945 newspaper
interview. ‘‘Another hit put our num-
ber three engine on fire and set another
windmilling. We lost altitude rapidly.’’
Stan and his fellow wingmen were in-
structed to bail out over Germany;
however, they decided to stick with the
plane if possible. ‘‘Over the Baltic we
started to toss out everything we could
move or pry loose,’’ Stan said in 1945,
stating that he even tried to drop the
ball turret. ‘‘I didn’t have a chance to
finish the job before I jumped to my
crash position. We came down in a
slight crash near a fishing village.
None of the crew was hurt.’’
A declassified document, Missing Air
Crew Report 8275, recently found in the
National Archives, verifies that all
nine crew members survived the force
of the crash landing near Sovde, Swe-
den. Weather conditions and visibility
were described as ‘‘cloudy smooth.’’
The bomber, numbered 43–37596, was
last sighted at ‘‘1322 hours’’ that day.
Stan and his crew were rescued by
Swedish troops and Red Cross workers;
however, the American airmen would
remain in neutral Sweden for 6 months.
The bomber crew were considered pris-
oners of war until repatriated back to
England. Stan, who originally enlisted
in January 1943, remained in the U.S.
Army Air Corps until he was honorably
discharged at New Castle Army Air-
field in October 1945.
After World War II, Stan did what
many GIs did upon returning home. He
picked up where he left off before the
war. Stan went back to his grocery job
at the American Store, now known as
ACME, located at Chestnut and Frank-
lin Streets in Wilmington.
Shortly thereafter, Stan Lawruk
married Pearl DeLucia in November
1946. Together Stan and Pearl raised
three children: Kathy, Stan, and Tim.
Stan eventually landed a delivery job
with the Tasty Baking Company, the
maker of Tastykake treats. He worked
there for 35 years until retirement.
Topping that record was the nearly 69
years of marriage shared by Stan and
Pearl Lawruk. His beloved wife passed
away in 2015.
Stan, who just celebrated his 95th
birthday, is still well known in our
community and in our State. He re-
cently moved to Wilmington VA Med-
ical Center’s Community Living Cen-
ter, where he quickly became a favor-
ite among the residents, staff, and vet-
erans.
Stan still loves Tastykake treats and
is widely known to be a bit of a card
sharp who enjoys a game of Blackjack.
Besides his interest in playing cards,
he recently discovered his talent as an
artist. In the last year alone, Stan has
painted more than a dozen works of
art. Folk who know Stan know him to
be a loving, caring, social, and ex-
tremely positive person.
In summary, Stanley ‘‘Lucky’’
Lawruk is truly part of our Greatest
Generation. I offer him my thanks for
his sacrifices for family, for State, for
country, and for humanity.
Stan, on behalf of a grateful nation,
thank you for your dedicated service.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF GE
BANGOR
∑ Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, in
1969, General Electric opened a factory
in Bangor, ME. At that time, it was a
small operation using old machinery to
produce components for turbines that
powered only 7,000 homes. Today, 50
years later, the skilled workers at GE
Power manufacture equipment that
powers more than 1 million homes. I
am delighted to congratulate this out-
standing company and its dedicated
workforce on their golden anniversary.
GE Power is a center of excellence
for steam turbine rotors and blading. It
specializes in gas turbine component
manufacturing, which is especially im-
portant as natural gas has become an
essential contributor to America’s
growing energy independence and has
helped reduce harmful emissions. As
this facility has grown, so has its glob-
al reputation for innovation and prob-
lem solving.
That reputation is earned every day
by the nearly 400 employees at GE
Power. Their ingenuity and dedication
have made their plant one of Bangor’s
most significant employers. They have
embraced GE’s companywide ethic of
philanthropy and service to others, and
they contribute to their community in
countless ways.
The General Electric Company was
founded in 1892 by Thomas Alva Edi-
son. The famed inventor and electricity
pioneer could well have had Bangor in
mind when he said, ‘‘The three great
essentials to achieve anything are hard
work, stick-to-itiveness, and common
sense.’’ The men and women of GE
Power demonstrate those essentials
every day, creating opportunity for
themselves and our city, and I con-
gratulate them on this landmark anni-
versary.∑
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE TWIN
FALLS AMERICAN LEGION POST 7
∑ Mr. RISCH. Madam President, along
with my colleagues Senator MIKE
CRAPO and Representative MIKE SIMP-
SON, I congratulate the American Le-
gion Post 7 in Twin Falls, ID, on its
100th anniversary.
On March 15, 1919, the first American
Legion caucus was held in Paris,
France, in the wake of World War I.
Just a few months later, in June of
1919, the American Legion Post 7 in
Twin Falls, ID, was chartered. On Sep-
tember 16, 1919, Congress established
the American Legion as a federally
charted corporation. As you can tell,
those men in Twin Falls wasted no
time answering the call in peacetime
as they had in time of war, as veterans
so often do. The low post number, post
No. 7, shows the veterans of Twin Falls
were one of the earliest to request and
receive a charter in the Idaho Depart-
ment.
The Twin Falls American Legion
Post 7 has been around to help veterans
from WWI, WWII, Korea, Vietnam,
Iraq, Afghanistan, and other U.S. en-
gagements and activities. A remark-
able record of accomplishment of serv-
ice and support to our troops and vet-
erans.
In addition, you will see post 7 mem-
bers serving on Memorial Day, Vet-
erans Day, veteran funerals, and many
other community events as the color
guard, providing 21-gun salutes, or
playing taps on the bugle. They quietly
provide support to grieving military
families, injured veterans, and patri-
otic citizens.
Twin Falls American Legion Post 7 is
part of the fabric and spirit of Twin
Falls and the surrounding commu-
nities. They provide assistance and
service to veterans by helping them to
understand and apply for benefits, find
jobs, and healthcare services. In addi-
tion, they are involved in many pro-
grams and community activities such
as American Legion Baseball, Boys
State, Oratorical Contests, and schol-
arship awards. Post 7 also has a wom-
en’s auxiliary that sponsors the Girls
State Program and serves in many ca-
pacities in the community.
The Preamble of the American Le-
gion Constitution speaks volumes
about the quality and patriotism of
American Legion members. The first
few lines of the preamble make evident
these values: ‘‘For God and Country we
Associate Ourselves together for the
following purposes: To uphold and de-
fend the Constitution of the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:15 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.013 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3651
June 18, 2019
States of America; To maintain law
and order; To foster and perpetuate a
one hundred percent
Americanism . . .’’
We thank Twin Falls American Le-
gion Post 7 and its membership for
their outstanding service to commu-
nity, country, and America’s veterans.
Congratulations on 100 years of
achievements. We commit to ensure
veterans have access to the highest
quality services worthy of their re-
markable dedication to our Nation.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
THAT WAS ORIGINALLY DE-
CLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER
13219 OF JUNE 26, 2001, WITH RE-
SPECT TO THE WESTERN BAL-
KANS—PM 20
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
Western Balkans that was declared in
Executive Order 13219 of June 26, 2001,
is to continue in effect beyond June 26,
2019.
The threat constituted by the actions
of persons engaged in, or assisting,
sponsoring, or supporting (i) extremist
violence in the former Republic of Mac-
edonia (what is now the Republic of
North Macedonia) and elsewhere in the
Western Balkans region, or (ii) acts ob-
structing implementation of the Day-
ton Accords in Bosnia or United Na-
tions Security Council Resolution 1244
of June 10, 1999, in Kosovo, has not
been resolved. In addition, Executive
Order 13219 was amended by Executive
Order 13304 of May 28, 2003, to take ad-
ditional steps with respect to acts ob-
structing implementation of the Ohrid
Framework Agreement of 2001 relating
to the former Republic of Macedonia
(what is now the Republic of North
Macedonia).
The acts of extremist violence and
obstructionist activity outlined in
these Executive Orders are hostile to
United States interests and continue to
pose an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security and for-
eign policy of the United States. For
this reason, I have determined that it
is necessary to continue the national
emergency with respect to the Western
Balkans.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, June 18, 2019.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. CRAPO for the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
*Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assistant
Secretary of Commerce and Director General
of the United States and Foreign Commer-
cial Service.
*Michelle Bowman, of Kansas, to be a
Member of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System for a term of four-
teen years from February 1, 2020.
*Allison Herren Lee, of Colorado, to be a
Member of the Securities and Exchange
Commission for a term expiring June 5, 2022.
*Thomas Peter Feddo, of Virginia, to be
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for In-
vestment Security.
*Paul Shmotolokha, of Washington, to be
First Vice President of the Export-Import
Bank of the United States for a term expir-
ing January 20, 2021.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr.
HEINRICH):
S. 1875. A bill to amend the Aamodt Litiga-
tion Settlement Act, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 1876. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to direct the Secretary of
the Treasury to establish uniform standards
for the use of electronic signatures with re-
spect to any request for disclosure of a tax-
payer’s return or return information to a
practitioner; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Ms.
HASSAN, and Mr. JOHNSON):
S. 1877. A bill to establish procedures and
consequences in the event of a failure to
complete regular appropriations; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr. MAR-
KEY):
S. 1878. A bill to establish universal child
care and early learning programs; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. HAWLEY:
S. 1879. A bill to call on the Secretary of
Homeland Security to lead a task force to
address the threat of foreign government in-
fluence and threats to academic research in-
tegrity on college campuses, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. BLUNT, and Ms. STABE-
NOW):
S. 1880. A bill to support the provision of
treatment family care services, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 1881. A bill to provide PreCheck to cer-
tain severely injured or disabled veterans,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 1882. A bill to make available the con-
tinued use of Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Pro-
gram project use power by the Kinsey Irriga-
tion Company and the Sidney Water Users
Irrigation District, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1883. A bill to improve the prohibitions
on money laundering, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1884. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an enhanced re-
search credit for the development of smart
gun technologies; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. REED:
S. 1885. A bill to ensure that irresponsible
corporate executives, rather than share-
holders, pay fines and penalties; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 1886. A bill to restrict security assist-
ance to Lebanon, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 1887. A bill to streamline the application
process for H–2A employers, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 1888. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to allow the Secretary of
Education to create a pilot program to
award College in High School Pell Grants; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Mr. GRASSLEY):
S. 1889. A bill to ensure that persons who
form corporations in the United States dis-
close the beneficial owners of those corpora-
tions, in order to prevent the formation of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:15 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.017 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3652 June 18, 2019
corporations with hidden owners, stop the
misuse of United States corporations by
wrongdoers, and assist law enforcement in
detecting, preventing, and punishing ter-
rorism, money laundering, tax evasion, and
other criminal and civil misconduct involv-
ing United States corporations, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms.
STABENOW, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 1890. A bill to provide for grants for en-
ergy efficiency improvements and renewable
energy improvements at public school facili-
ties; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. PETERS:
S. 1891. A bill to provide for the inclusion
on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall of
the names of the soldiers who died on Flying
Tiger Flight 739 on March 16, 1962; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 27
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
were added as cosponsors of S. 27, a bill
to amend the Surface Mining Control
and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer
certain funds to the 1974 United Mine
Workers of America Pension Plan, and
for other purposes.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
91, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize per diem pay-
ments under comprehensive service
programs for homeless veterans to fur-
nish care to dependents of homeless
veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 170
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) and the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. BENNET) were added as
cosponsors of S. 170, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to limit
the amount of certain qualified con-
servation contributions.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) and the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added
as cosponsors of S. 178, a bill to con-
demn gross human rights violations of
ethnic Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and
calling for an end to arbitrary deten-
tion, torture, and harassment of these
communities inside and outside China.
S. 208
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 208, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to permit certain
retired members of the uniformed serv-
ices who have a service-connected dis-
ability to receive both disability com-
pensation from the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs for their disability and ei-
ther retired pay by reason of their
years of military service or Combat-
Related Special Compensation, and for
other purposes.
S. 227
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
227, a bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to review, revise, and develop law
enforcement and justice protocols ap-
propriate to address missing and mur-
dered Indians, and for other purposes.
S. 239
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the Sen-
ator from Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY),
the Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO)
and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 239, a
bill to require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint coins in recognition
of Christa McAuliffe.
S. 428
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 428, a bill to lift the trade embar-
go on Cuba.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER), the Senator from Wis-
consin (Mr. JOHNSON), the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI), the Senator
from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) and the Sen-
ator from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 457, a bill to
require that $1 coins issued during 2019
honor President George H.W. Bush and
to direct the Secretary of the Treasury
to issue bullion coins during 2019 in
honor of Barbara Bush.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 460, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend
the exclusion for employer-provided
education assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 466
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 466, a bill to provide that
certain guidance related to waivers for
State innovation under the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act
shall have no force or effect.
S. 491
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 491, a bill to reaffirm the policy of
the United States with respect to man-
agement authority over public land,
and for other purposes.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
500, a bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish, fund, and
provide for the use of amounts in a Na-
tional Park Service Legacy Restora-
tion Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service,
and for other purposes.
S. 514
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 514, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to improve the
benefits and services provided by the
Department of Veterans Affairs to
women veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 546
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS), the Senator from Florida
(Mr. SCOTT) and the Senator from Alas-
ka (Mr. SULLIVAN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 546, a bill to extend au-
thorization for the September 11th Vic-
tim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2090, and for other
purposes.
S. 578
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the names of the Senator from Okla-
homa (Mr. LANKFORD) and the Senator
from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 578, a bill to amend
title II of the Social Security Act to
eliminate the five-month waiting pe-
riod for disability insurance benefits
under such title for individuals with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
S. 589
At the request of Mr. LANKFORD, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 589, a bill to provide for a period
of continuing appropriations in the
event of a lapse in appropriations
under the normal appropriations proc-
ess, and establish procedures and con-
sequences in the event of a failure to
complete regular appropriations.
S. 631
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 631, a bill to provide for
the admission of the State of Wash-
ington, D.C. into the Union.
S. 640
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 640, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to require
pharmacy-negotiated price concessions
to be included in negotiated prices at
the point-of-sale under part D of the
Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 727
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 727, a bill to combat inter-
national extremism by addressing glob-
al fragility and violence and stabilizing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.024 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3653
June 18, 2019
conflict-affected areas, and for other
purposes.
S. 756
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 756, a bill to modify the
prohibition on recognition by United
States courts of certain rights relating
to certain marks, trade names, or com-
mercial names.
S. 784
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 784, a bill to amend the
Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 to expand the military stu-
dent identifier program to cover stu-
dents with a parent who serves in the
reserve component of the Armed
Forces.
S. 849
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
849, a bill to provide for the inclusion
on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial
Wall of the names of the lost crew
members of the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans
killed on June 3, 1969.
S. 894
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY), the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Sen-
ator from Washington (Ms. CANTWELL)
were added as cosponsors of S. 894, a
bill to authorize dedicated domestic
terrorism offices within the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the De-
partment of Justice, and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation to analyze and
monitor domestic terrorist activity
and require the Federal Government to
take steps to prevent domestic ter-
rorism.
S. 899
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 899, a bill to limit the
authority of the President to modify
duty rates for national security rea-
sons and to limit the authority of the
United States Trade Representative to
impose certain duties or import re-
strictions, and for other purposes.
S. 906
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS)
were added as cosponsors of S. 906, a
bill to improve the management of
driftnet fishing.
S. 931
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 931, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to en-
hance the Child and Dependent Care
Tax Credit and make the credit fully
refundable.
S. 961
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 961, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand eli-
gibility for the refundable credit for
coverage under a qualified health plan.
S. 979
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 979, a bill to amend the
Post-Katrina Emergency Management
Reform Act of 2006 to incorporate the
recommendations made by the Govern-
ment Accountability Office relating to
advance contracts, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1032, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the def-
inition of income for purposes of deter-
mining the tax-exempt status of cer-
tain corporations.
S. 1088
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1088, a bill to amend the
Immigration and Nationality Act to re-
quire the President to set a minimum
annual goal for the number of refugees
to be admitted, and for other purposes.
S. 1126
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1126, a bill to provide better care
for Americans living with Alzheimer’s
disease and related dementias and their
caregivers, while accelerating progress
toward prevention strategies, disease
modifying treatments, and, ultimately,
a cure.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) and the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1168, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to ensure
campus access at public institutions of
higher education for religious groups.
S. 1223
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1223, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for the non-application of
Medicare competitive acquisition rates
to complex rehabilitative wheelchairs
and accessories.
S. 1243
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1243, a bill to provide standards
for facilities at which aliens in the cus-
tody of the Department of Homeland
Security are detained, and for other
purposes.
S. 1247
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. LEAHY), the Sen-
ator from New Mexico (Mr. UDALL) and
the Senator from Washington (Mrs.
MURRAY) were added as cosponsors of
S. 1247, a bill to amend the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 to re-
quire reporting to the Federal Election
Commission and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation of offers by foreign na-
tionals to make prohibited contribu-
tions, donations, expenditures, or dis-
bursements, and for other purposes.
S. 1317
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH), the Senator from Alabama (Mr.
JONES) and the Senator from North
Carolina (Mr. TILLIS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1317, a bill to facilitate
the availability, development, and en-
vironmentally responsible production
of domestic resources to meet national
material or critical mineral needs, and
for other purposes.
S. 1329
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1329, a bill to amend the Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act
to require that equitable distribution
of assistance include equitable dis-
tribution in Indian tribes and tribal or-
ganizations and to increase amounts
reserved for allotment to Indian tribes
and tribal organizations under certain
circumstances, and to provide for a
Government Accountability Office re-
port on child abuse and neglect in
American Indian tribal communities.
S. 1354
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1354, a bill to require cer-
tain protections for student loan bor-
rowers, and for other purposes.
S. 1414
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1414, a bill to provide bank-
ruptcy relief for student borrowers.
S. 1447
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1447, a bill to allow the financing
by United States persons of sales of ag-
ricultural commodities to Cuba.
S. 1500
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1500, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to improve and enhance
protections for members of the Armed
Forces who are victims of a sex-related
or domestic violence offense, and for
other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.026 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3654 June 18, 2019
S. 1539
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1539, a bill to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to pro-
vide funding to secure nonprofit facili-
ties from terrorist attacks, and for
other purposes.
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Mr. JOHNSON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1539, supra.
S. 1543
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1543, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide that floor
plan financing includes the financing
of certain trailers and campers.
S. 1555
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1555, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to improve the Transition
Assistance Program for members of the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes.
S. 1564
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1564, a bill to require the Securities and
Exchange Commission and certain Fed-
eral agencies to carry out a study re-
lating to accounting standards, and for
other purposes.
S. 1586
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Tennessee (Mrs.
BLACKBURN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1586, a bill to abolish the Federal
Insurance Office of the Department of
the Treasury, and for other purposes.
S. 1643
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1643, a bill to amend title
36, United States Code, to grant a Fed-
eral charter to the Forest and Refuge
County Foundation, to provide for the
establishment of the Natural Resources
Permanent Fund, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1650
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1650, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to provide for-
mula grants to States to improve high-
er education opportunities for foster
youth and homeless youth, and for
other purposes.
S. 1696
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1696, a bill to
amend the Higher Education Act of
1965 to eliminate origination fees on
Federal Direct loans.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. SINEMA) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1728, a bill to require the
United States Postal Service to sell the
Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 ad-
ditional years.
S. 1733
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1733, a bill to limit the
separation of children from their par-
ents or legal guardians, to limit the de-
tention of families and children, to
provide unaccompanied alien children
with access to counsel, to increase the
number of immigration judges and sup-
port staff, and for other purposes.
S. 1764
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to require
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion to ensure just and reasonable
charges for telephone and advanced
communications services in the correc-
tional and detention facilities.
S. 1806
At the request of Mr. ROMNEY, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1806, a bill to make the E-Verify pro-
gram permanent, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1826
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1826, a bill to modify
the penalties for violations of the Tele-
phone Consumer Protection Act of 1993.
S. 1830
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) and the Senator from North
Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1830, a bill to enhance
the security of the United States and
its allies, and for other purposes.
S. 1834
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) and the Senator from
New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1834, a bill to
prohibit deceptive practices in Federal
elections.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1838, a bill to amend the
Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, and for
other purposes.
S. 1840
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1840, a bill to establish
certain requirements for the small re-
fineries exemption of the renewable
fuels provisions under the Clean Air
Act, and for other purposes.
S. 1847
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) and the Senator from Hawaii
(Mr. SCHATZ) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1847, a bill to require group health
plans and group or individual health
insurance coverage to provide coverage
for over-the-counter contraceptives.
S. 1871
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1871, a bill to amend
title 23, United States Code, to compel
States to require illuminated signs and
other measures on ride-hailing vehi-
cles, to require transportation network
companies to implement an electronic
access system on ride-hailing vehicles,
to prohibit the sale of such signs, and
for other purposes.
S. 1874
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1874, a bill to amend title
40, United States Code, to require the
Administrator of General Services to
procure the most life-cycle cost effec-
tive and energy efficiency lighting
products and to issue guidance on the
efficiency, effectiveness, and economy
of those products, and for other pur-
poses.
S.J. RES. 49
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) and the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) were added as
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 49, a joint reso-
lution proposing an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States au-
thorizing the Congress to prohibit the
physical desecration of the flag of the
United States.
S. RES. 80
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 80, a resolution establishing the
John S. McCain III Human Rights
Commission.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 120, a resolution opposing efforts
to delegitimize the State of Israel and
the Global Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions Movement targeting Israel.
S. RES. 198
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 198, a resolution condemning
Brunei’s dramatic human rights back-
sliding.
S. RES. 205
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 205, a resolution expressing
the gratitude of the Senate for the peo-
ple who operate or support diaper
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.028 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3655
June 18, 2019
banks and diaper distribution programs
in their local communities.
S. RES. 243
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 243, a resolution requesting infor-
mation on Saudi Arabia’s human rights
practices in Yemen pursuant to section
502B(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961.
AMENDMENT NO. 253
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from South
Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a
cosponsor of amendment No. 253 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 258
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of amendment No. 258 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 264
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 264 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 292
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 292 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 301
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES), the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN), the Senator from Vir-
ginia (Mr. WARNER), the Senator from
Illinois (Mr. DURBIN), the Senator from
Virginia (Mr. KAINE), the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH),
the Senator from Maryland (Mr. VAN
HOLLEN), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) and the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL) were added as cosponsors
of amendment No. 301 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 313
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) and the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) were added as cospon-
sors of amendment No. 313 intended to
be proposed to S. 1790, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 329
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Wash-
ington (Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a
cosponsor of amendment No. 329 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 331
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 331 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 336
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 336 intended to
be proposed to S. 1790, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 337
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 337 intended to
be proposed to S. 1790, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 373
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 373 intended to
be proposed to S. 1790, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 374
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) were added
as cosponsors of amendment No. 374 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 375
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from Michi-
gan (Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
375 intended to be proposed to S. 1790,
an original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 379
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 379 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 390
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 390 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.031 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3656 June 18, 2019
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 410
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 410 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 415
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
415 intended to be proposed to S. 1790,
an original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 417
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. BENNET), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. UDALL) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
417 intended to be proposed to S. 1790,
an original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 424
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 424 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 431
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 431 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 443
At the request of Mr. TESTER, his
name was withdrawn as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 443 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 454
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 454 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 455
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the names of the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Senator
from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the
Senator from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY),
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were added
as cosponsors of amendment No. 455 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 458
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of Flor-
ida, the names of the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO) and the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. HAWLEY) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
458 intended to be proposed to S. 1790,
an original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 466
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Mr. JOHNSON) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 466 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 484
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 484 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 493
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 493 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 509
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) and the Senator
from Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
509 intended to be proposed to S. 1790,
an original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 516
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 516 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 521
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 521 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 556
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN), the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added
as cosponsors of amendment No. 556 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.032 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3657
June 18, 2019
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 559
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
559 intended to be proposed to S. 1790,
an original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 562
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator from Kan-
sas (Mr. MORAN) were added as cospon-
sors of amendment No. 562 intended to
be proposed to S. 1790, an original bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 563
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. MORAN) and the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. YOUNG) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 563 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 574
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 574 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 576
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. CARPER), the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL),
the Senator from New Mexico (Mr.
HEINRICH), the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN), the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN), the
Senator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN), the
Senator from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ), the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS) and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 576 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 584
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) and the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 584 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 588
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN), the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) and the Senator
from Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
588 intended to be proposed to S. 1790,
an original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 590
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 590 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 591
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 591 intended
to be proposed to S. 1790, an original
bill to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 592
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ), the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) and the Senator from Lou-
isiana (Mr. CASSIDY) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 592 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 593
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ), the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) and the Senator from Lou-
isiana (Mr. CASSIDY) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 593 in-
tended to be proposed to S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 599
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 599 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 605
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 605 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 606
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 606 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 622
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 622 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.034 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3658 June 18, 2019
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 626
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 626 intended to be
proposed to S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED:
S. 1885. A bill to ensure that irrespon-
sible corporate executives, rather than
shareholders, pay fines and penalties;
to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today, I
am reintroducing the Corporate Man-
agement Accountability Act, which
asks each publicly traded company to
disclose its policies on whether senior
executives or shareholders bear the
costs of paying the company’s fines and
penalties.
In 2014, William Dudley. then the
President of the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York, gave a speech on Enhanc-
ing Financial Stability by Improving
Culture in the Financial Services In-
dustry. In this speech, President Dud-
ley said, ‘‘in recent years, there have
been ongoing occurrences of serious
professional misbehavior, ethical
lapses and compliance failures at fi-
nancial institutions. This has resulted
in a long list of large fines and pen-
alties, and, to a lesser degree than I
would have desired employee dismis-
sals and punishment. . . . The pattern
of bad behavior did not end with the fi-
nancial crisis, but continued despite
the considerable public sector inter-
vention that was necessary to stabilize
the financial system. As a consequence.
the financial industry has largely lost
the public trust.’’
Since 2009, banks globally have paid
$372 billion in penalties, according to
the Boston Consulting Group. However,
despite these fines, financial institu-
tions continue to engage in unaccept-
able behavior, whether it is Wells
Fargo betraying the trust of its cus-
tomers by opening unauthorized ac-
counts or it is Equifax endangering
millions of consumers by compro-
mising critical personal information.
Indeed, in my home State of Rhode Is-
land, almost half the State may have
been impacted by the cybersecurity
breach at Equifax. These and other
breaches and lapses illustrate how far
financial institutions have to go in re-
building the trust of Rhode Islanders
and the American people.
At the same time, it is evident that
simply fining and penalizing financial
institutions at the corporate level is
not enough to deter bad actors. Senior
executives, many of whom are all too
eager to take credit for a company’s
good news, must also take more re-
sponsibility for the bad news, espe-
cially if it is true that the buck stops
with them. For example, the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission concluded
‘‘the financial crisis reached cata-
clysmic proportions with the collapse
of Lehman Brothers,’’ and yet, accord-
ing to the Congressional Research
Service. not a single senior executive
officer at Lehman Brothers at the Fed-
eral level was charged, went to jail, or
personally paid a Federal fine or pen-
alty for the damage caused at Lehman
Brothers that rippled through our
economy in 2008.
According to Professor Peter J.
Henning, who also writes the White
Collar Watch column in the New York
Times. ‘‘a problem in holding individ-
uals accountable for misconduct in an
organization is the disconnect between
the actual decisions and those charged
with overseeing the company, so that
executives and corporate boards usu-
ally plead ignorance about an issue
until it is too late.’’
The Corporate Management Account-
ability Act I am reintroducing today is
one attempt at helping to solve this
problem. The bill simply asks publicly
traded companies to disclose whether
they expect senior executives or share-
holders to pay the cost of corporate
fines or penalties. This approach is sup-
ported by University of Minnesota Law
School Professors Claire Hill and Rich-
ard Painter, who also served as Presi-
dent George W. Bush’s chief ethics law-
yer, as well as Americans for Financial
Reform.
I urge all my colleagues to join this
legislative effort to hold senior execu-
tives accountable for their actions.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 636. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 637. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 638. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 639. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 640. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 641. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 642. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 643. Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. BROWN, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. GARDNER, and Mr. CRUZ) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 644. Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Ms. HARRIS) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by her to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 645. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. HEINRICH,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. BOOK-
ER) submitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 646. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. CASEY, and Ms. HARRIS) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by her to the bill S. 1790, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 647. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr.
UDALL) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 648. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 649. Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms.
CANTWELL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 650. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 651. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 652. Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
CRAMER, Ms. SMITH, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. COONS,
Mr. HOEVEN, and Mr. MANCHIN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 653. Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. DAINES, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 654. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Ms.
ROSEN) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 655. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 656. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 657. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 658. Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. BROWN, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. TOOMEY,
Mr. CORNYN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
MARKEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mrs. BLACK-
BURN) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 659. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:15 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.036 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3659
June 18, 2019
SA 660. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 661. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 662. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 663. Mr. ENZI submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 664. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 665. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 666. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 667. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 668. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 669. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 670. Mr. WARNER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 671. Mr. MARKEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 672. Mr. CARPER (for himself and Mr.
KAINE) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 673. Mr. BENNET (for himself and Ms.
WARREN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 674. Mr. BENNET submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 675. Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr.
GARDNER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 676. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr.
COTTON, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
and Mr. CARDIN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 677. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 678. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 679. Mr. UDALL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 680. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 681. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 682. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 683. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 684. Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms.
CANTWELL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by her to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 685. Mr. DURBIN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 686. Mr. PETERS submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 687. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 688. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. CRAPO,
and Mr. RISCH) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 689. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. ROM-
NEY) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 690. Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. CRAMER, and Mr. BRAUN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 691. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
REED) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 692. Mr. TILLIS submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 693. Mr. ROMNEY (for himself and Mr.
CORNYN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 694. Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. JONES)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by her to the bill S. 1790, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 695. Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by her to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 696. Ms. WARREN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 697. Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
MARKEY, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr. MERKLEY) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by her to the bill S. 1790, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 698. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. CASEY, Mr. MANCHIN, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. TESTER, Mr. MUR-
PHY, and Mr. SANDERS) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 699. Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 700. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 701. Mr. MANCHIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 702. Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr.
HEINRICH) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 703. Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and
Mr. TOOMEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by her to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 704. Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 705. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 706. Mr. ROMNEY (for himself, Ms.
MCSALLY, and Ms. SINEMA) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 707. Mrs. HYDE–SMITH (for herself, Ms.
CANTWELL, and Mr. DAINES) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 708. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. ROM-
NEY) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 709. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 710. Mr. YOUNG submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 711. Mr. INHOFE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 712. Mr. SANDERS (for himself and
Mrs. CAPITO) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 713. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 714. Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
WARNER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 715. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 716. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 717. Mr. THUNE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 718. Mr. THUNE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 719. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 720. Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr.
UDALL) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.039 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3660 June 18, 2019
SA 721. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
REED) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 722. Mr. WARNER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 723. Ms. STABENOW (for herself and
Ms. COLLINS) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by her to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 724. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr.
CRAPO) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 725. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 726. Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr.
LEAHY) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by her to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 727. Mr. PETERS submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 728. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 729. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 730. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 731. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 732. Mr. WARNER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 733. Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
TESTER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 734. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 735. Mr. CORNYN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 736. Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 737. Mr. BURR submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 738. Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. SMITH,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 739. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 740. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
REED) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 741. Mr. INHOFE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 742. Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
TESTER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 743. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 744. Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms.
CANTWELL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 745. Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. SULLIVAN,
and Mr. TOOMEY) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by her to the bill S.
1790, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 746. Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
WARNER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 747. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 748. Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Mr. ENZI) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by her to the bill S. 1790,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 749. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 750. Mr. McCONNELL (for Mr. BOOKER
(for himself and Mrs. BLACKBURN)) proposed
an amendment to the resolution S. Res. 235,
designating June 12, 2019, as ‘‘Women Vet-
erans Appreciation Day’’.
SA 751. Mr. PETERS submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 752. Mr. BURR submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 753. Mr. PERDUE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 754. Mr. WICKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 755. Mr. WICKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 636. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title XXXI, add
the following:
SEC. 3105. AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS FOR
DENUCLEARIZATION OF DEMO-
CRATIC PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
NORTH KOREA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The amount authorized
to be appropriated by section 3101 and avail-
able as specified in the funding table in sec-
tion 4701 for defense nuclear nonproliferation
is hereby increased by $10,000,000, with the
amount of the increase to be available to de-
velop and prepare to implement a com-
prehensive, long-term monitoring and
verification program for activities related to
the phased denuclearization of the Demo-
cratic People’s Republic of North Korea, in
coordination with relevant international
partners and organizations.
(b) OFFSET.—The amount authorized to be
appropriated by section 3101 and available as
specified in the funding table in section 4701
for weapons activities for the W76–2 warhead
modification program is hereby reduced by
$10,000,000.
SA 637. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1045. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCT OF FIRST-
USE NUCLEAR STRIKES.
(a) POLICY.—It is the policy of the United
States not to use nuclear weapons first.
(b) PROHIBITION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the President may
not use the Armed Forces of the United
States to conduct a first-use nuclear strike
unless such strike is conducted pursuant to a
declaration of war by Congress that ex-
pressly authorizes such strike.
(c) FIRST-USE NUCLEAR STRIKE DEFINED.—
In subsection (b), the term ‘‘first-use nuclear
strike’’ means an attack using nuclear weap-
ons against an enemy that is conducted
without the President determining that the
enemy has first launched a nuclear strike
against the United States or an ally of the
United States.
SA 638. Ms. CANTWELL submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 360. MONITORING OF NOISE FROM FLIGHTS
AND TRAINING OF EA-18G GROWL-
ERS ASSOCIATED WITH NAVAL AIR
STATION WHIDBEY ISLAND.
(a) MONITORING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall provide for real-time monitoring of
noise from local flights of EA-18G Growlers
associated with Naval Air Station Whidbey
Island, including field carrier landing prac-
tice at Naval Outlying Field (OLF)
Coupeville and Ault Field.
(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary
shall publish the results of monitoring con-
ducted under paragraph (1) on a publicly
available Internet website of the Department
of Defense.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.041 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3661
June 18, 2019
of Representatives a report on the progress
of monitoring conducted under paragraph (1)
and the results of such monitoring.
(b) PLAN FOR ADDITIONAL MONITORING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a plan for
real-time monitoring described in subsection
(a)(1) of noise relating to field carrier land-
ing practice conducted above or adjacent to
Olympic National Park, Olympic National
Forest, and Ebey’s Landing National Histor-
ical Reserve.
(2) DEVELOPMENT OF PLAN.—The Secretary
shall work with the Director of the National
Park Service and the Chief of the Forest
Service in developing the plan under para-
graph (1).
(c) FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amount authorized to
be appropriated by this Act for Navy Oper-
ation and Maintenance is hereby increased
by $1,000,000 and the amount of such increase
shall be made available to carry out this sec-
tion.
(2) OFFSET.—The amount authorized to be
appropriated by this Act for Marine Corps
Operation and Maintenance for SAG 4A4G is
hereby reduced by $1,000,000.
SA 639. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title II, add the
following:
SEC. lll. COMMERCIAL EDGE COMPUTING
TECHNOLOGIES AND BEST PRAC-
TICES FOR DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE WARFIGHTING SYSTEMS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port on commercial edge computing tech-
nologies and best practices for Department
of Defense warfighting systems.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) Identification of initial warfighting sys-
tem programs of record that will benefit
most from accelerated insertion of commer-
cial edge computing technologies and best
practices, resulting in significant near-term
improvement in system performance and
mission capability.
(2) The plan of the Department of Defense
to provide additional funding for the systems
identified in paragraph (1) to achieve fielding
of accelerated commercial edge computing
technologies before or during fiscal year 2021.
(3) The plan of the Department to identify,
manage, and provide additional funding for
commercial edge computing technologies
more broadly over the next four fiscal years
where appropriate for—
(A) command, control, communications,
and intelligence systems;
(B) logistics systems; and
(C) other mission-critical systems.
(4) A detailed description of the policies,
procedures, budgets, and accelerated acquisi-
tion and contracting mechanisms of the De-
partment for near-term insertion of commer-
cial edge computing technologies and best
practices into military mission-critical sys-
tems.
SA 640. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 319, add at the end the following:
(d) USE OF AMOUNTS.—Section 2703 of such
title is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(i) USE OF FUNDS IN NATIONAL GUARD AC-
COUNTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds authorized for de-
posit in an account under paragraph (6) or (7)
of subsection (a) may be obligated or ex-
pended only for the environmental remedi-
ation of perfluoroalkyl substances and
polyfluoroalkyl substances at real property
owned or leased by the Federal Government
that is licensed to and operated by a State
for training for the Army National Guard or
the Air National Guard.
‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(A) The term ‘perfluoroalkyl substances’
means aliphatic substances for which all of
the H atoms attached to C atoms in the
nonfluorinated substance from which they
are notionally derived have been replaced by
F atoms, except those H atoms whose substi-
tution would modify the nature of any func-
tional groups present.
‘‘(B) The term ‘polyfluoroalkyl substances’
means aliphatic substances for which all H
atoms attached to at least one (but not all)
C atoms have been replaced by F atoms, in
such a manner that they contain the
perfluoroalkyl moiety CnF2n∂1l (for exam-
ple, C8F17CH2CH2OH).’’.
SA 641. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title XXVIII,
add the following:
SEC. 2806. REPORT ON UNFUNDED REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR MAJOR AND MINOR
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS FOR CHILD DEVELOP-
MENT CENTERS OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE AND INCREASE
OF MAXIMUM AMOUNTS FOR SUCH
MINOR PROJECTS.
(a) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Readiness, in co-
ordination with the Assistant Secretary for
Energy, Installations, and Environment for
each military department, shall submit to
the congressional defense committees each
year, at the time the budget of the President
for the fiscal year beginning in such year is
submitted to Congress under section 1105(a)
of title 31, United States Code, a report, in
priority order, listing unfunded requirements
for major and minor military construction
projects for child development centers of the
Department of Defense.
(2) INCLUSION OF FORM.—Each report sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall include a
Department of Defense Form DD1391 for each
major and minor military construction
project included in the report.
(b) INCREASED MAXIMUM AMOUNTS APPLICA-
BLE TO MINOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS FOR
CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of any
minor military construction project for a
child development center carried out on or
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the amount specified in section 2805(a)(2) of
title 10, United States Code, is deemed to be
$15,000,000.
(2) SUNSET.—This subsection shall termi-
nate on the date that is three years after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(c) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense
of the Senate that the Senate recognizes the
need for additional investment in child de-
velopment centers and remains committed
to ensuring that future executable require-
ments for child development centers are
funded as much as possible beginning in fis-
cal year 2020 based on the list of unfunded re-
quirements included in the report submitted
under subsection (a).
SA 642. Mrs. MURRAY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 1616 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 1616. REQUIREMENTS FOR PHASE 2 OF AC-
QUISITION STRATEGY FOR NA-
TIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out phase 2 of
the acquisition strategy for the National Se-
curity Space Launch program, the Secretary
of the Air Force—
(1) may not—
(A) modify the acquisition schedule or mis-
sion performance requirements; or
(B) award missions to more than two
launch service providers; and
(2) shall ensure that launch services are
procured only from launch service providers
that use launch vehicles meeting each Gov-
ernment requirement with respect to re-
quired payloads to reference orbits.
(b) REPORT AND BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the phase 2 award is
announced, and annually thereafter for the
duration of phase 2, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report and briefing that includes—
(A) an analysis of the commercial market
for space launch, including whether commer-
cial launch providers are able to meet the re-
quired reference orbits and all other require-
ments of the National Security Space
Launch program;
(B) a description of the total costs of
launches procured under phase 2, including
launch service support;
(C) a plan to increase competition in the
National Security Space Launch program to
more than two launch service providers; and
(D) a plan to ensure full and equitable use
of unused launch sites or potential new
launch sites, including an analysis of alter-
natives for viable access for small or medium
commercial launch providers.
(2) COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW.—Not
later than 90 days after the date on which
the Secretary submits a report under para-
graph (1) the Comptroller General of the
United States shall—
(A) review the report; and
(B) submit to Congress—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.045 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3662 June 18, 2019
(i) findings with respect to the accuracy
and adequacy of the report; and
(ii) recommendations to improve the ad-
ministration of the National Security Space
Launch program, including sustained com-
petition for launch service procurement.
SA 643. Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for him-
self, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. GARDNER,
and Mr. CRUZ) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of division A, add the following:
TITLE XVII—OTTO WARMBIER BANKING
RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING NORTH
KOREA ACT OF 2019
SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Otto
Warmbier Banking Restrictions Involving
North Korea Act of 2019’’.
Subtitle A—Sanctions With Respect to North
Korea
SEC. 1711. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Since 2006, the United Nations Security
Council has adopted 10 resolutions imposing
sanctions against North Korea under chapter
VII of the United Nations Charter, which—
(A) prohibit the use, development, and pro-
liferation of weapons of mass destruction by
North Korea;
(B) prohibit the supply, sale, or transfer of
arms and related materiel to or from North
Korea;
(C) prohibit the transfer of luxury goods to
North Korea;
(D) restrict access by North Korea to fi-
nancial services that could contribute to nu-
clear, missile, or other programs related to
the development of weapons of mass destruc-
tion;
(E) restrict North Korean shipping, includ-
ing the registration, reflagging, or insuring
of North Korean ships;
(F) prohibit, with limited exceptions,
North Korean exports of coal, precious met-
als, iron, vanadium, and rare earth minerals;
(G) prohibit the transfer to North Korea of
rocket, aviation, or jet fuel, as well as gaso-
line, condensates, and natural gas liquids;
(H) prohibit new work authorization for
North Korean laborers and require the repa-
triation of all North Korean laborers by De-
cember 2019;
(I) prohibit exports of North Korean food
and agricultural products, including seafood;
(J) prohibit joint ventures or cooperative
commercial entities or expanding joint ven-
tures with North Korea;
(K) prohibit exports of North Korean tex-
tiles;
(L) require member countries of the United
Nations to seize, inspect, and impound any
ship in its jurisdiction that is suspected of
violating Security Council resolutions with
respect to North Korea and to interdict and
inspect all cargo heading to or from North
Korea by land, sea, or air;
(M) limit the transfer to North Korea of re-
fined petroleum products and crude oil;
(N) ban the sale or transfer to North Korea
of industrial machinery, transportation vehi-
cles, electronics, iron, steel, and other met-
als;
(O) reduce North Korean diplomatic staff
numbers in member countries of the United
Nations and expel any North Korean dip-
lomats found to be working on behalf of a
person subject to sanctions or assisting in
sanctions evasion;
(P) limit North Korean diplomatic mis-
sions abroad with respect to staff size and
access to banking privileges and prohibit
commerce from being conducted out of North
Korean consular or diplomatic offices;
(Q) require member states of the United
Nations to close representative offices, sub-
sidiaries, and bank accounts in North Korea;
(R) prohibit countries from providing or re-
ceiving military training to or from North
Korea or hosting North Koreans for special-
ized teaching or training that could con-
tribute to the programs of North Korea re-
lated to the development of weapons of mass
destruction;
(S) ban countries from granting landing
and flyover rights to North Korean aircraft;
and
(T) prohibit trade in statuary of North Ko-
rean origin.
(2) The Government of North Korea has
threatened to carry out nuclear attacks
against the United States, South Korea, and
Japan.
(3) The Government of North Korea tested
its sixth and largest nuclear device on Sep-
tember 3, 2017.
(4) According to a report by the Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency released in
August 2018, ‘‘The continuation and further
development of the DPRK’s nuclear pro-
gramme and related statements by the
DPRK are a cause for grave concern. The
DPRK’s nuclear activities, including those in
relation to the Yongbyon Experimental Nu-
clear Power Plant (5 MW(e)) reactor, the use
of the building which houses the reported
centrifuge enrichment facility and the con-
struction at the light water reactor, as well
as the DPRK’s sixth nuclear test, are clear
violations of relevant UN Security Council
resolutions, including resolution 2375 (2017)
and are deeply regrettable.’’.
(5) In July 2018, Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo testified to the Committee on For-
eign Relations of the Senate that North
Korea ‘‘continue[s] to produce fissile mate-
rial’’ despite public pledges by North Korean
leader Kim Jong-un to denuclearize.
(6) The 2019 Missile Defense Review con-
ducted by the Department of Defense states
that North Korea ‘‘continues to pose an ex-
traordinary threat and the United States
must remain vigilant. In the past, North
Korea frequently issued explicit nuclear mis-
sile threats against the United States and al-
lies, all the while working aggressively to
field the capability to strike the U.S. home-
land with nuclear-armed ballistic missiles.
Over the past decade, it has invested consid-
erable resources in its nuclear and ballistic
missile programs, and undertaken extensive
nuclear and missile testing in order to real-
ize the capability to threaten the U.S. home-
land with missile attack. As a result, North
Korea has neared the time when it could
credibly do so.’’.
(7) Financial transactions and investments
that provide financial resources to the Gov-
ernment of North Korea, and that fail to in-
corporate adequate safeguards against the
misuse of those financial resources, pose an
undue risk of contributing to—
(A) weapons of mass destruction programs
of that Government; and
(B) efforts to evade restrictions required by
the United Nations Security Council on im-
ports or exports of arms and related mate-
riel, services, or technology by that Govern-
ment.
(8) The Federal Bureau of Investigation has
determined that the Government of North
Korea was responsible for cyberattacks
against entities in the United States, South
Korea, and around the world.
(9) In November 2017, President Donald
Trump designated the government of North
Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism pursu-
ant to authorities under the Export Adminis-
tration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et
seq.), as continued in effect at the time
under the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)),
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2151 et seq.), and the Arms Export Control
Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.);
(10) On February 22, 2018, the Secretary of
State determined that the Government of
North Korea was responsible for the lethal
nerve agent attack in 2017 on Kim Jong Nam,
the half-brother of North Korean leader Kim
Jong-un, in Malaysia, triggering sanctions
required under the Chemical and Biological
Weapons Control and Warfare Elimination
Act of 1991 (22 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.).
(11) The strict enforcement of sanctions is
essential to the efforts of the international
community to achieve the peaceful, com-
plete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantle-
ment of weapons of mass destruction pro-
grams of the Government of North Korea.
SEC. 1712. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the United States is committed to
working with its allies and partners to halt
the nuclear and ballistic missile programs of
North Korea through a policy of maximum
pressure and diplomatic engagement;
(2) the imposition of sanctions, including
those under this title, should not be con-
strued to limit the authority of the Presi-
dent to fully engage in diplomatic negotia-
tions to further the policy objective de-
scribed in paragraph (1);
(3) the successful use of sanctions to halt
the nuclear and ballistic missile programs of
North Korea is part of a broader diplomatic
and economic strategy that relies on effec-
tive coordination among relevant Federal
agencies and officials, as well as with inter-
national partners of the United States; and
(4) the coordination described in paragraph
(3) should include proper vetting of external
messaging and communications from all
parts of the Executive branch to ensure that
those communications are an intentional
component of and aligned with the strategy
of the United States with respect to North
Korea.
SEC. 1713. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle, the terms ‘‘applicable Ex-
ecutive order’’, ‘‘applicable United Nations
Security Council resolution’’, ‘‘appropriate
congressional committees’’, ‘‘Government of
North Korea’’, ‘‘North Korea’’, and ‘‘North
Korean financial institution’’ have the
meanings given those terms in section 3 of
the North Korea Sanctions and Policy En-
hancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9202).
PART I—EXPANSION OF SANCTIONS AND
RELATED MATTERS
SEC. 1721. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOR-
EIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
THAT PROVIDE FINANCIAL SERV-
ICES TO CERTAIN SANCTIONED PER-
SONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the North
Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement
Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9221 et seq.) is amended
by inserting after the item relating to sec-
tion 201A the following:
‘‘SEC. 201B. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOR-
EIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
THAT PROVIDE FINANCIAL SERV-
ICES TO CERTAIN SANCTIONED PER-
SONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall impose one or more of the
sanctions described in subsection (b) with re-
spect to a foreign financial institution that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.045 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3663
June 18, 2019
the Secretary determines, on or after the
date that is 90 days after the date of the en-
actment of the Otto Warmbier Banking Re-
strictions Involving North Korea Act of 2019,
knowingly provides significant financial
services to any person designated for the im-
position of sanctions under—
‘‘(1) subsection (a) or (b) of section 104;
‘‘(2) an applicable Executive order; or
‘‘(3) an applicable United Nations Security
Council resolution.
‘‘(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
that may be imposed with respect to a for-
eign financial institution subject to sub-
section (a) are the following:
‘‘(1) ASSET BLOCKING.—The Secretary may
block and prohibit, pursuant to the Inter-
national Emergency Economic Powers Act
(50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all
property and interests in property of the for-
eign financial institution if such property
and interests in property are in the United
States, come within the United States, or
are or come within the possession or control
of a United States person.
‘‘(2) RESTRICTIONS ON CORRESPONDENT AND
PAYABLE-THROUGH ACCOUNTS.—The Secretary
may prohibit, or impose strict conditions on,
the opening or maintaining in the United
States of a correspondent account or a pay-
able-through account by the foreign finan-
cial institution.
‘‘(c) IMPLEMENTATION; PENALTIES.—
‘‘(1) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
‘‘(2) PENALTIES.—A person that violates,
attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or
causes a violation of this section or any reg-
ulation, license, or order issued to carry out
this section shall be subject to the penalties
set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section
206 of the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the
same extent as a person that commits an un-
lawful act described in subsection (a) of that
section.
‘‘(d) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of the Otto
Warmbier Banking Restrictions Involving
North Korea Act of 2019, the President shall,
as appropriate, prescribe regulations to
carry out this section.
‘‘(e) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION
OF GOODS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
404(b) or any provision of this section, the
authorities and requirements to impose
sanctions under this section shall not in-
clude the authority or a requirement to im-
pose sanctions on the importation of goods.
‘‘(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘good’ means any article, natural or
manmade substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ACCOUNT; CORRESPONDENT ACCOUNT;
PAYABLE-THROUGH ACCOUNT.—The terms ‘ac-
count’, ‘correspondent account’, and ‘pay-
able-through account’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 5318A of title 31,
United States Code.
‘‘(2) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term ‘fi-
nancial institution’ means a financial insti-
tution specified in subparagraph (A), (B), (C),
(D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), (M), or (Y) of
section 5312(a)(2) of title 31, United States
Code.
‘‘(3) FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The
term ‘foreign financial institution’ shall
have the meaning of that term as determined
by the Secretary of the Treasury.
‘‘(4) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘knowingly’,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a
result, means that a person has actual
knowledge, or should have known, of the
conduct, the circumstance, or the result.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the North Korea Sanctions and
Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 is amended
by inserting after the item relating to sec-
tion 201A the following:
‘‘201B. Sanctions with respect to foreign fi-
nancial institutions that pro-
vide financial services to cer-
tain sanctioned persons.’’.
SEC. 1722. EXTENSION OF APPLICABILITY PE-
RIOD OF PROLIFERATION PREVEN-
TION SANCTIONS.
Section 203(b)(2) of the North Korea Sanc-
tions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22
U.S.C. 9223(b)(2)) is amended by striking ‘‘2
years’’ and inserting ‘‘5 years’’.
SEC. 1723. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IDENTIFICA-
TION AND BLOCKING OF PROPERTY
OF NORTH KOREAN OFFICIALS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Presi-
dent should—
(1) encourage international collaboration
through the Financial Action Task Force
and its global network to utilize its stand-
ards and apply means at its disposal to
counter the money laundering, terrorist fi-
nancing, and proliferation financing threats
emanating from North Korea; and
(2) prioritize multilateral efforts to iden-
tify and block—
(A) any property owned or controlled by a
North Korean official; and
(B) any significant proceeds of kleptocracy
by the Government of North Korea or a
North Korean official.
SEC. 1724. MODIFICATION OF REPORT ON IMPLE-
MENTATION OF UNITED NATIONS
SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS
BY OTHER GOVERNMENTS.
Section 317 of the Korean Interdiction and
Modernization of Sanctions Act (title III of
Public Law 115–44; 131 Stat. 950) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
annually thereafter for 5 years,’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of the Otto Warmbier Bank-
ing Restrictions Involving North Korea Act
of 2019, and annually thereafter for 5 years,’’;
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘; or’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (8); and
(D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) prohibit, in the territories of such
countries or by persons subject to the juris-
diction of such governments, the opening of
new joint ventures or cooperative entities
with North Korean persons or the expansion
of existing joint ventures through additional
investments, whether or not for or on behalf
of the Government of North Korea, unless
such joint ventures or cooperative entities
have been approved by the Committee of the
United Nations Security Council established
by United Nations Security Council Resolu-
tion 1718 (2006);
‘‘(5) prohibit the unauthorized clearing of
funds by North Korean financial institutions
through financial institutions subject to the
jurisdiction of such governments;
‘‘(6) prohibit the unauthorized conduct of
commercial trade with North Korea that is
prohibited under applicable United Nations
Security Council resolutions;
‘‘(7) prevent the provision of financial serv-
ices to North Korean persons or the transfer
of financial services to North Korean persons
to, through, or from the territories of such
countries or by persons subject to the juris-
diction of such governments; or’’; and
(2) by amending subsection (c) to read as
follows:
‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES AND LEADERSHIP.—The term ‘appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship’ means—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, and the majority and minor-
ity leaders of the Senate; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and the Speaker,
the majority leader, and the minority leader
of the House of Representatives.
‘‘(2) APPLICABLE UNITED NATIONS SECURITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTION; NORTH KOREAN FINAN-
CIAL INSTITUTION; NORTH KOREAN PERSON.—
The terms ‘applicable United Nations Secu-
rity Council resolution’, ‘North Korean fi-
nancial institution’, and ‘North Korean per-
son’ have the meanings given those terms in
section 3 of the North Korea Sanctions and
Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C.
9202).’’.
SEC. 1725. REPORT ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT
OF NORTH KOREA OF BENEFICIAL
OWNERSHIP RULES TO ACCESS THE
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SYS-
TEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
a report setting forth the findings of the Sec-
retary regarding how the Government of
North Korea is exploiting laws with respect
to the beneficial owner of an entity in order
to access the international financial system.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The Secretary shall in-
clude in the report required under subsection
(a) proposals for such legislative and admin-
istrative action as the Secretary considers
appropriate to combat the abuse by the Gov-
ernment of North Korea of shell companies
and other similar entities to avoid or evade
sanctions.
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
PART II—CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW AND
OVERSIGHT
SEC. 1731. NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OR
SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.
Not less than 15 days before taking any ac-
tion to terminate or suspend the application
of sanctions under this subtitle or an amend-
ment made by this subtitle, the President
shall notify the appropriate congressional
committees of the President’s intent to take
the action and the reasons for the action.
SEC. 1732. REPORTS ON CERTAIN LICENSING AC-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and every 180 days thereafter, the President
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on the operation
of the system for issuing licenses for trans-
actions under covered regulatory provisions
during the preceding 180-day period that in-
cludes—
(1) the number and types of such licenses
applied for during that period; and
(2) the number and types of such licenses
issued during that period.
(b) COVERED REGULATORY PROVISION DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘covered
regulatory provision’’ means any of the fol-
lowing provisions, as in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act
and as such provisions relate to North Korea:
(1) Part 743, 744, or 746 of title 15, Code of
Federal Regulations.
(2) Part 510 of title 31, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations.
(3) Any other provision of title 31, Code of
Federal Regulations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.046 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3664 June 18, 2019
(c) FORM.—Each report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1733. BRIEFINGS ON IMPLEMENTATION AND
ENFORCEMENT OF SANCTIONS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days
thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall provide to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a briefing on efforts relat-
ing to the implementation and enforcement
of United States sanctions with respect to
North Korea, including appropriate updates
on the efforts of the Department of the
Treasury to address compliance with such
sanctions by foreign financial institutions.
SEC. 1734. REPORT ON FINANCIAL NETWORKS
AND FINANCIAL METHODS OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF NORTH KOREA.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter through 2025, the
President shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a report on
sources of external support for the Govern-
ment of North Korea that includes—
(A) a description of the methods used by
the Government of North Korea to deal in,
transact in, or conceal the ownership, con-
trol, or origin of goods and services exported
by North Korea;
(B) an assessment of the relationship be-
tween the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction by the Government of North
Korea and the financial industry or financial
institutions;
(C) an assessment of the relationship be-
tween the acquisition by the Government of
North Korea of military expertise, equip-
ment, and technology and the financial in-
dustry or financial institutions;
(D) a description of the export by any per-
son to the United States of goods, services,
or technology that are made with significant
amounts of North Korean labor, material, or
goods, including minerals, manufacturing,
seafood, overseas labor, or other exports
from North Korea;
(E) an assessment of the involvement of
any person in human trafficking involving
citizens or nationals of North Korea;
(F) a description of how the President
plans to address the flow of funds generated
by activities described in subparagraphs (A)
through (E), including through the use of
sanctions or other means;
(G) an assessment of the extent to which
the Government of North Korea engages in
criminal activities, including money laun-
dering, to support that Government;
(H) information relating to the identifica-
tion, blocking, and release of property de-
scribed in section 201B(b)(1) of the North
Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement
Act of 2016, as added by section 1721;
(I) a description of the metrics used to
measure the effectiveness of law enforce-
ment and diplomatic initiatives of Federal,
State, and foreign governments to comply
with the provisions of applicable United Na-
tions Security Council resolutions; and
(J) an assessment of the effectiveness of
programs within the financial industry to
ensure compliance with United States sanc-
tions, applicable United Nations Security
Council resolutions, and applicable Execu-
tive orders.
(2) FORM.—Each report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
(b) INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.—The
President shall ensure that any information
collected pursuant to subsection (a) is shared
among the Federal departments and agencies
involved in investigations described in sec-
tion 102(b) of the North Korea Sanctions and
Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C.
9212(b)).
SEC. 1735. REPORT ON COUNTRIES OF CONCERN
WITH RESPECT TO TRANSSHIPMENT,
REEXPORTATION, OR DIVERSION OF
CERTAIN ITEMS TO NORTH KOREA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter through 2023, the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall submit
to the President, the Secretary of Defense,
the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port that identifies all countries that the Di-
rector determines are of concern with re-
spect to transshipment, reexportation, or di-
version of items subject to the provisions of
the Export Administration Regulations
under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15,
Code of Federal Regulations, to an entity
owned or controlled by the Government of
North Korea.
(b) FORM.—Each report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
PART III—GENERAL MATTERS
SEC. 1741. RULEMAKING.
The President shall prescribe such rules
and regulations as may be necessary to carry
out this subtitle and amendments made by
this subtitle.
SEC. 1742. AUTHORITY TO CONSOLIDATE RE-
PORTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Any and all reports re-
quired to be submitted to the appropriate
congressional committees under this subtitle
or an amendment made by this subtitle that
are subject to a deadline for submission con-
sisting of the same unit of time may be con-
solidated into a single report that is sub-
mitted pursuant to that deadline.
(b) CONTENTS.—Any reports consolidated
under subsection (a) shall contain all infor-
mation required under this subtitle or an
amendment made by this subtitle and any
other elements that may be required by ex-
isting law.
SEC. 1743. WAIVERS, EXEMPTIONS, AND TERMI-
NATION.
(a) APPLICATION AND MODIFICATION OF EX-
EMPTIONS AND WAIVERS FROM NORTH KOREA
SANCTIONS AND POLICY ENHANCEMENT ACT OF
2016.—Section 208 of the North Korea Sanc-
tions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22
U.S.C. 9228) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘201B,’’ after ‘‘201A,’’ each
place it appears; and
(2) in subsection (c), by inserting ‘‘, not
less than 15 days before the waiver takes ef-
fect,’’ after ‘‘if the President’’.
(b) SUSPENSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to section 1731,
any requirement to impose sanctions under
this subtitle or the amendments made by
this subtitle, and any sanctions imposed pur-
suant to this subtitle or any such amend-
ment, may be suspended for up to one year if
the President makes the certification de-
scribed in section 401 of the North Korea
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of
2016 (22 U.S.C. 9251) to the appropriate con-
gressional committees.
(2) RENEWAL.—A suspension under para-
graph (1) may be renewed in accordance with
section 401(b) of the North Korea Sanctions
and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22
U.S.C. 9251(b)).
(c) TERMINATION.—Subject to section 1731,
any requirement to impose sanctions under
this subtitle or the amendments made by
this subtitle, and any sanctions imposed pur-
suant to this subtitle or any such amend-
ment, shall terminate on the date on which
the President makes the certification de-
scribed in section 402 of the North Korea
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of
2016 (22 U.S.C. 9252).
SEC. 1744. PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF CLASSI-
FIED INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If a finding under this
subtitle or an amendment made by this sub-
title, a prohibition, condition, or penalty im-
posed as a result of any such finding, or a
penalty imposed under this subtitle or an
amendment made by this subtitle, is based
on classified information (as defined in sec-
tion 1(a) of the Classified Information Proce-
dures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court re-
views the finding or the imposition of the
prohibition, condition, or penalty, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury may submit such in-
formation to the court ex parte and in cam-
era.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to confer or
imply any right to judicial review of any
finding under this subtitle or an amendment
made by this subtitle, any prohibition, con-
dition, or penalty imposed as a result of any
such finding, or any penalty imposed under
this subtitle or an amendment made by this
subtitle.
SEC. 1745. BRIEFING ON RESOURCING OF SANC-
TIONS PROGRAMS.
Not later than 30 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall provide to the appropriate
congressional committees a briefing on—
(1) the resources allocated by the Depart-
ment of the Treasury to support each sanc-
tions program administered by the Depart-
ment; and
(2) recommendations for additional au-
thorities or resources necessary to expand
the capacity or capability of the Department
related to implementation and enforcement
of such programs.
SEC. 1746. BRIEFING ON PROLIFERATION FI-
NANCING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide
to the appropriate congressional committees
a briefing on addressing proliferation fi-
nance.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The briefing required by
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) The Department of the Treasury’s defi-
nition and description of an appropriate risk-
based approach to combating financing of
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruc-
tion.
(2) An assessment of—
(A) Federal financial regulatory agency
oversight, including by the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network, of United States fi-
nancial institutions and the adoption by
their foreign subsidiaries, branches, and cor-
respondent institutions of a risk-based ap-
proach to proliferation financing; and
(B) whether financial institutions in for-
eign jurisdictions known by the United
States intelligence and law enforcement
communities to be jurisdictions through
which North Korea moves substantial sums
of licit and illicit finance are applying a
risk-based approach to proliferation financ-
ing, and if that approach is comparable to
the approach required by United States fi-
nancial institution supervisors.
(3) A survey of the technical assistance the
Office of Technical Assistance of the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, and other appropriate
Executive branch offices, currently provide
foreign institutions on implementing
counter-proliferation financing best prac-
tices.
(4) An assessment of the ability of foreign
subsidiaries, branches, and correspondent in-
stitutions of United States financial institu-
tions to implement a risk-based approach to
proliferation financing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.046 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3665
June 18, 2019
Subtitle B—Divestment From North Korea
SEC. 1751. AUTHORITY OF STATE AND LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS TO DIVEST FROM
COMPANIES THAT INVEST IN NORTH
KOREA.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the United States should sup-
port the decision of any State or local gov-
ernment made for moral, prudential, or
reputational reasons, to divest from, or pro-
hibit the investment of assets of the State or
local government in, a person that engages
in investment activities described in sub-
section (c) if North Korea is subject to eco-
nomic sanctions imposed by the United
States or the United Nations Security Coun-
cil.
(b) AUTHORITY TO DIVEST.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, a State
or local government may adopt and enforce
measures that meet the requirements of sub-
section (d) to divest the assets of the State
or local government from, or prohibit invest-
ment of the assets of the State or local gov-
ernment in, any person that the State or
local government determines, using credible
information available to the public, engages
in investment activities described in sub-
section (c).
(c) INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES DESCRIBED.—In-
vestment activities described in this sub-
section are activities of a value of more than
$10,000 relating to an investment in North
Korea or in goods or services originating in
North Korea that are not conducted pursu-
ant to a license issued by the Department of
the Treasury.
(d) REQUIREMENTS.—Any measure taken by
a State or local government under sub-
section (b) shall meet the following require-
ments:
(1) NOTICE.—The State or local government
shall provide written notice to each person
with respect to which a measure under this
section is to be applied.
(2) TIMING.—The measure applied under
this section shall apply to a person not ear-
lier than the date that is 90 days after the
date on which written notice under para-
graph (1) is provided to the person.
(3) OPPORTUNITY TO DEMONSTRATE COMPLI-
ANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The State or local gov-
ernment shall provide to each person with
respect to which a measure is to be applied
under this section an opportunity to dem-
onstrate to the State or local government
that the person does not engage in invest-
ment activities described in subsection (c).
(B) NONAPPLICATION.—If a person with re-
spect to which a measure is to be applied
under this section demonstrates to the State
or local government under subparagraph (A)
that the person does not engage in invest-
ment activities described in subsection (c),
the measure shall not apply to that person.
(4) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON AVOIDING ERRO-
NEOUS TARGETING.—It is the sense of Con-
gress that a State or local government
should not adopt a measure under subsection
(b) with respect to a person unless the State
or local government has—
(A) made every effort to avoid erroneously
targeting the person; and
(B) verified that the person engages in in-
vestment activities described in subsection
(c).
(e) NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.—
Not later than 30 days before a State or local
government applies a measure under this
section, the State or local government shall
notify the Attorney General of that measure.
(f) AUTHORIZATION FOR PRIOR APPLIED
MEASURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section or any other
provision of law, a State or local government
may enforce a measure (without regard to
the requirements of subsection (d), except as
provided in paragraph (2)) applied by the
State or local government before the date of
the enactment of this Act that provides for
the divestment of assets of the State or local
government from, or prohibits the invest-
ment of the assets of the State or local gov-
ernment in, any person that the State or
local government determines, using credible
information available to the public, engages
in investment activities described in sub-
section (c) that are identified in that meas-
ure.
(2) APPLICATION OF NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—
A measure described in paragraph (1) shall be
subject to the requirements of paragraphs
(1), (2), and (3)(A) of subsection (d) on and
after the date that is 2 years after the date
of the enactment of this Act.
(g) NO PREEMPTION.—A measure applied by
a State or local government that is con-
sistent with subsection (b) or (f) is not pre-
empted by any Federal law.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ASSET.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the term ‘‘asset’’ means
public monies, and includes any pension, re-
tirement, annuity, endowment fund, or simi-
lar instrument, that is controlled by a State
or local government.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The term ‘‘asset’’ does not
include employee benefit plans covered by
title I of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(2) INVESTMENT.—The term ‘‘investment’’
includes—
(A) a commitment or contribution of funds
or property;
(B) a loan or other extension of credit; and
(C) the entry into or renewal of a contract
for goods or services.
(i) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2) and subsection (f), this section
applies to measures applied by a State or
local government before, on, or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—Except as pro-
vided in subsection (f), subsections (d) and
(e) apply to measures applied by a State or
local government on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1752. SAFE HARBOR FOR CHANGES OF IN-
VESTMENT POLICIES BY ASSET MAN-
AGERS.
Section 13(c)(1) of the Investment Com-
pany Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–13(c)(1)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) engage in investment activities de-
scribed in section 1751(c) of the Otto
Warmbier Banking Restrictions Involving
North Korea Act of 2019.’’.
SEC. 1753. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING
CERTAIN ERISA PLAN INVEST-
MENTS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) a fiduciary of an employee benefit plan,
as defined in section 3(3) of the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29
U.S.C. 1002(3)), may divest plan assets from,
or avoid investing plan assets in, any person
the fiduciary determines engages in invest-
ment activities described in section 1751(c),
if—
(A) the fiduciary makes that determina-
tion using credible information that is avail-
able to the public; and
(B) the fiduciary prudently determines
that the result of that divestment or avoid-
ance of investment would not be expected to
provide the employee benefit plan with—
(i) a lower rate of return than alternative
investments with commensurate degrees of
risk; or
(ii) a higher degree of risk than alternative
investments with commensurate rates of re-
turn; and
(2) by divesting assets or avoiding the in-
vestment of assets as described in paragraph
(1), the fiduciary is not breaching the respon-
sibilities, obligations, or duties imposed
upon the fiduciary by subparagraph (A) or
(B) of section 404(a)(1) of the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29
U.S.C. 1104(a)(1)).
SEC. 1754. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this subtitle, an amendment
made by this subtitle, or any other provision
of law authorizing sanctions with respect to
North Korea shall be construed to affect or
displace—
(1) the authority of a State or local govern-
ment to issue and enforce rules governing
the safety, soundness, and solvency of a fi-
nancial institution subject to its jurisdic-
tion; or
(2) the regulation and taxation by the sev-
eral States of the business of insurance, pur-
suant to the Act of March 9, 1945 (59 Stat. 33,
chapter 20; 15 U.S.C. 1011 et seq.) (commonly
known as the ‘‘McCarran-Ferguson Act’’).
Subtitle C—Financial Industry Guidance to
Halt Trafficking
SEC. 1761. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Finan-
cial Industry Guidance to Halt Trafficking
Act’’ or the ‘‘FIGHT Act’’.
SEC. 1762. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The terms ‘‘human trafficking’’ and
‘‘trafficking in persons’’ are used inter-
changeably to describe crimes involving the
exploitation of a person for the purposes of
compelled labor or commercial sex through
the use of force, fraud, or coercion.
(2) According to the International Labour
Organization, there are an estimated
24,900,000 people worldwide who are victims
of forced labor, including human trafficking
victims in the United States.
(3) Human trafficking is perpetrated for fi-
nancial gain.
(4) According to the International Labour
Organization, of the estimated
$150,000,000,000 or more in global profits gen-
erated annually from human trafficking—
(A) approximately 2⁄3 are generated by com-
mercial sexual exploitation, exacted by fraud
or by force; and
(B) approximately 1⁄3 are generated by
forced labor.
(5) Most purchases of commercial sex acts
are paid for with cash, making trafficking
proceeds difficult to identify in the financial
system. Nonetheless, traffickers rely heavily
on access to financial institutions as des-
tinations for trafficking proceeds and as con-
duits to finance every step of the trafficking
process.
(6) Under section 1956 of title 18, United
States Code (relating to money laundering),
human trafficking is a ‘‘specified unlawful
activity’’ and transactions conducted with
proceeds earned from trafficking people, or
used to further trafficking operations, can be
prosecuted as money laundering offenses.
SEC. 1763. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the President should aggressively apply,
as appropriate, existing sanctions for human
trafficking authorized under section 111 of
the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7108);
(2) the Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work of the Department of the Treasury
should continue—
(A) to monitor reporting required under
subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.046 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3666 June 18, 2019
States Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Bank
Secrecy Act’’) and to update advisories, as
warranted;
(B) to periodically review its advisories to
provide covered financial institutions, as ap-
propriate, with a list of new ‘‘red flags’’ for
identifying activities of concern, particu-
larly human trafficking;
(C) to encourage entities covered by the
advisories described in subparagraph (B) to
incorporate relevant elements provided in
the advisories into their current transaction
and account monitoring systems or in poli-
cies, procedures, and training on human traf-
ficking to enable financial institutions to
maintain ongoing efforts to examine trans-
actions and accounts;
(D) to use geographic targeting orders, as
appropriate, to impose additional reporting
and recordkeeping requirements under sec-
tion 5326(a) of title 31, United States Code, to
carry out the purposes of, and prevent eva-
sions of the Bank Secrecy Act; and
(E) to utilize the Bank Secrecy Act Advi-
sory Group and other relevant entities to
identify opportunities for nongovernmental
organizations to share relevant actionable
information on human traffickers’ use of the
financial sector for nefarious purposes;
(3) Federal banking regulators, the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, relevant law enforce-
ment agencies, and the Human Smuggling
and Trafficking Center, in partnership with
representatives from the United States fi-
nancial community, should adopt regular
forms of sharing information to disrupt
human trafficking, including developing pro-
tocols and procedures to share actionable in-
formation between and amongst covered in-
stitutions, law enforcement, and the United
States intelligence community;
(4) training front line bank and money
service business employees, school teachers,
law enforcement officers, foreign service offi-
cers, counselors, and the general public is an
important factor in identifying trafficking
victims;
(5) the Department of Homeland Security’s
Blue Campaign, training by the BEST Em-
ployers Alliance, and similar efforts by in-
dustry, human rights, and nongovernmental
organizations focused on human trafficking
provide good examples of current efforts to
educate employees of critical sectors to save
victims and disrupt trafficking networks;
(6) the President should intensify diplo-
matic efforts, bilaterally and in appropriate
international fora, such as the United Na-
tions, to develop and implement a coordi-
nated, consistent, multilateral strategy for
addressing the international financial net-
works supporting human trafficking; and
(7) in deliberations between the United
States Government and any foreign country,
including through participation in the
Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence
Units, regarding money laundering, corrup-
tion, and transnational crimes, the United
States Government should—
(A) encourage cooperation by foreign gov-
ernments and relevant international fora in
identifying the extent to which the proceeds
from human trafficking are being used to fa-
cilitate terrorist financing, corruption, or
other illicit financial crimes;
(B) encourage cooperation by foreign gov-
ernments and relevant international fora in
identifying the nexus between human traf-
ficking and money laundering;
(C) advance policies that promote the co-
operation of foreign governments, through
information sharing, training, or other
measures, in the enforcement of this sub-
title;
(D) encourage the Financial Action Task
Force to update its July 2011 typology re-
ports entitled, ‘‘Laundering the Proceeds of
Corruption’’ and ‘‘Money Laundering Risks
Arising from Trafficking in Human Beings
and Smuggling of Migrants’’, to identify the
money laundering risk arising from the traf-
ficking of human beings; and
(E) encourage the Egmont Group of Finan-
cial Intelligence Units to study the extent to
which human trafficking operations are
being used for money laundering, terrorist fi-
nancing, or other illicit financial purposes.
SEC. 1764. COORDINATION OF HUMAN TRAF-
FICKING ISSUES BY THE OFFICE OF
TERRORISM AND FINANCIAL INTEL-
LIGENCE.
(a) FUNCTIONS.—Section 312(a)(4) of title 31,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F),
and (G) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H),
respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following:
‘‘(E) combating illicit financing relating to
human trafficking;’’.
(b) INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.—Section
312(a) of such title is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(8) INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.—The Sec-
retary of the Treasury, after consultation
with the Undersecretary for Terrorism and
Financial Crimes, shall designate an office
within the OTFI that shall coordinate efforts
to combat the illicit financing of human
trafficking with—
‘‘(A) other offices of the Department of the
Treasury;
‘‘(B) other Federal agencies, including—
‘‘(i) the Office to Monitor and Combat
Trafficking in Persons of the Department of
State; and
‘‘(ii) the Interagency Task Force to Mon-
itor and Combat Trafficking;
‘‘(C) State and local law enforcement agen-
cies; and
‘‘(D) foreign governments.’’.
SEC. 1765. STRENGTHENING THE ROLE OF ANTI-
MONEY LAUNDERING AND OTHER
FINANCIAL TOOLS IN COMBATING
HUMAN TRAFFICKING.
(a) INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE RECOMMENDA-
TIONS TARGETING MONEY LAUNDERING RE-
LATED TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Interagency Task Force to Monitor and
Combat Trafficking shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations,
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate, the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives, the Secretary of the
Treasury, and each appropriate Federal
banking agency—
(A) an analysis of anti-money laundering
efforts of the United States Government,
United States financial institutions, and
multilateral development banks related to
human trafficking; and
(B) appropriate legislative, administrative,
and other recommendations to strengthen ef-
forts against money laundering relating to
human trafficking.
(2) REQUIRED RECOMMENDATIONS.—The rec-
ommendations under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude—
(A) best practices based on successful anti-
human trafficking programs currently in
place at domestic and international financial
institutions that are suitable for broader
adoption;
(B) feedback from stakeholders, including
victims of severe trafficking in persons, ad-
vocates of persons at risk of becoming vic-
tims of severe forms of trafficking in per-
sons, the United States Advisory Council on
Human Trafficking, civil society organiza-
tions, and financial institutions on policy
proposals derived from the analysis con-
ducted by the task force referred to in para-
graph (1) that would enhance the efforts and
programs of financial institutions to detect
and deter money laundering related to
human trafficking, including any rec-
ommended changes to internal policies, pro-
cedures, and controls related to human traf-
ficking;
(C) any recommended changes to training
programs at financial institutions to better
equip employees to deter and detect money
laundering related to human trafficking; and
(D) any recommended changes to expand
human trafficking-related information shar-
ing among financial institutions and be-
tween such financial institutions, appro-
priate law enforcement agencies, and appro-
priate Federal agencies.
(b) ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—
Section 105(d)(7) of the Trafficking Victims
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)) is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘the Committee on Finan-
cial Services,’’ after ‘‘the Committee on For-
eign Affairs’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs,’’ after ‘‘the
Committee on Foreign Relations,’’;
(2) in subparagraph (Q)(vii), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(3) in subparagraph (R), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(S) the efforts of the United States to
eliminate money laundering related to
human trafficking and the number of inves-
tigations, arrests, indictments, and convic-
tions in money laundering cases with a
nexus to human trafficking.’’.
(c) REQUIRED REVIEW OF PROCEDURES.—Not
later than 180 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, victims of severe forms of trafficking in
persons, advocates of persons at risk of be-
coming victims of severe forms of trafficking
in persons, the United States Advisory Coun-
cil on Trafficking, civil society organiza-
tions, the private sector, and appropriate law
enforcement agencies, shall—
(1) review and enhance training and exami-
nations procedures to improve the surveil-
lance capabilities of anti-money laundering
and countering the financing of terrorism
programs to detect human trafficking-re-
lated financial transactions;
(2) review and enhance procedures for re-
ferring potential human trafficking cases to
the appropriate law enforcement agency; and
(3) determine, as appropriate, whether re-
quirements for financial institutions and
covered financial institutions are sufficient
to detect and deter money laundering related
to human trafficking.
(d) LIMITATIONS.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed to—
(1) grant rulemaking authority to the
Interagency Task Force to Monitor and
Combat Trafficking; or
(2) authorize financial institutions to deny
services to or violate the privacy of victims
of trafficking, victims of severe forms of
trafficking, or individuals not responsible for
promoting severe forms of trafficking in per-
sons.
SEC. 1766. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESOURCES
TO COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) adequate funding should be provided for
critical Federal efforts to combat human
trafficking;
(2) the Department of the Treasury should
have the appropriate resources to vigorously
investigate human trafficking networks
under section 111 of the Trafficking Victims
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.046 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3667
June 18, 2019
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7108) and
other relevant statutes and Executive or-
ders;
(3) the Department of the Treasury and the
Department of Justice should each have the
capacity and appropriate resources to sup-
port technical assistance to develop foreign
partners’ ability to combat human traf-
ficking through strong national anti-money
laundering and countering the financing of
terrorism programs;
(4) each United States Attorney’s Office
should be provided appropriate funding to in-
crease the number of personnel for commu-
nity education and outreach and investiga-
tive support and forensic analysis related to
human trafficking; and
(5) the Department of State should be pro-
vided additional resources, as necessary, to
carry out the Survivors of Human Traf-
ficking Empowerment Act (section 115 of
Public Law 114–22; 129 Stat. 243).
SA 644. Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself
and Ms. HARRIS) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to
the bill S. 1790, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title XXVIII,
add the following:
SEC. 2815. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED USES
OF CERTAIN PROPERTY CONVEYED
BY THE UNITED STATES IN LOS AN-
GELES, CALIFORNIA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2 of Public Law
85–236 (71 Stat. 517) is amended in the first
sentence by inserting after ‘‘for other mili-
tary purposes’’ the following: ‘‘and for pur-
poses of meeting the needs of the homeless
(as that term is defined in section 103 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11302))’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF USE.—
(1) APPLICATION.—The State of California
may submit to the Administrator of General
Services an application for use of the prop-
erty conveyed pursuant to section 2 of Public
Law 85–236 for purposes of meeting the needs
of the homeless in accordance with the
amendment made by subsection (a).
(2) REVIEW OF APPLICATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of receipt of an application
pursuant to paragraph (1), the Administrator
and the Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall jointly determine whether the
use of the property described in the applica-
tion is a use for purposes of meeting the
needs of the homeless.
(B) CONCURRENCE BY SECRETARY OF THE
ARMY.—If the Administrator and the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services jointly
determine that the use of the property de-
scribed in the application is for purposes of
meeting the needs of the homeless, the Ad-
ministrator shall request concurrence by the
Secretary of the Army that the proposed use
to meet the needs of the homeless does not
preclude current and anticipated future use
of the property for training of the National
Guard and for other military purposes.
(3) MODIFICATION OF INSTRUMENT OF CON-
VEYANCE.—If the Secretary of the Army con-
curs that the proposed use to meet the needs
of the homeless does not preclude current
and anticipated future use of the property
for training of the National Guard and for
other military purposes, the Administrator
shall execute and record in the appropriate
office an instrument of modification of the
deed of conveyance executed pursuant to
Public Law 85–236 in order to authorize such
use of the property. The instrument shall in-
clude such additional terms and conditions
as the Administrator considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
SA 645. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for him-
self, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, insert
the following:
SEC. l. DUTY TO REPORT OFFERS BY FOREIGN
NATIONALS TO MAKE PROHIBITED
CONTRIBUTIONS, DONATIONS, EX-
PENDITURES, OR DISBURSEMENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS.—
(1) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Duty To Report Act’’.
(2) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(A) Political contributions and express-ad-
vocacy expenditures are an integral aspect of
the process by which Americans elect offi-
cials to Federal, State, and local government
offices.
(B) It is fundamental to the definition of a
national political community that foreign
citizens do not have a constitutional right to
participate in, and thus may be excluded
from, activities of democratic self-govern-
ance.
(C) The United States has a compelling in-
terest in limiting the participation of for-
eign citizens in activities of democratic self-
government, and in thereby preventing for-
eign influence over the United States polit-
ical process.
(D) Foreign donations and expenditures
have a corrupting influence on the campaign
process and limiting the activities of foreign
citizens in our elections is necessary to pre-
serve the basic conception of a political com-
munity and democratic self-governance.
(b) REPORTING TO THE FEC.—
(1) REPORTING OFFERS OF PROHIBITED CON-
TRIBUTIONS, DONATIONS, EXPENDITURES, OR
DISBURSEMENTS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.—Sec-
tion 304 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30104) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(j) DISCLOSURE OF OFFERS OF PROHIBITED
CONTRIBUTIONS, DONATIONS, EXPENDITURES,
OR DISBURSEMENTS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.—
If a political committee, an agent of the
committee, or in the case of an authorized
committee of a candidate for Federal office,
a candidate, receives an offer (orally, in
writing, or otherwise) of a prohibited con-
tribution, donation, expenditure, or disburse-
ment (as defined in subsection (c)(3) of the
Duty To Report Act), the committee shall,
within 24 hours of receiving the offer, report
to the Commission—
‘‘(1) to the extent known, the name, ad-
dress, and nationality of the foreign national
(as defined in section 319(b)) making the
offer; and
‘‘(2) the amount and type of contribution,
donation, expenditure, or disbursement of-
fered.’’.
(2) REPORTING MEETINGS WITH FOREIGN GOV-
ERNMENTS OR THEIR AGENTS.—Section 304 of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30104), as amended by paragraph
(1), is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(k) DISCLOSURE OF MEETINGS WITH FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS OR THEIR AGENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), if a political committee, an
agent of the committee, or in the case of an
authorized committee of a candidate for Fed-
eral office, a candidate, meets with a foreign
government or an agent of a foreign prin-
cipal, as defined in section 1 of the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C.
611), the committee shall, within 24 hours of
meeting, report to the Commission—
‘‘(A) to the extent known, the identity of
each individual at the meeting and the for-
eign government involved; and
‘‘(B) the purpose of the meeting.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR MEETINGS IN OFFICIAL
CAPACITY.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply
with respect to a meeting with a foreign gov-
ernment or an agent of a foreign principal by
an elected official or as an employee of an
elected official in their official capacity as
such an official or employee.’’.
(3) PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS.—Not
later than one year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Federal Election Com-
mission shall promulgate regulations pro-
viding additional indicators beyond the per-
tinent facts described in section 110.20(a)(5)
of title 11, Code of Federal Regulations (as in
effect on the date of enactment of this Act)
that may lead a reasonable person to con-
clude that there is a substantial probability
that the source of the funds solicited, accept-
ed, or received is a foreign national, as de-
fined in section 319(b) of the Federal Election
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121(b)), or to inquire
whether the source of the funds solicited, ac-
cepted, or received is a foreign national, as
so defined. Regulations promulgated under
the proceeding sentence shall also provide
guidance to political committees and cam-
paigns to not engage in racial or ethnic
profiling in making such a conclusion or in-
quiry.
(c) REPORTING OFFERS OF PROHIBITED CON-
TRIBUTIONS, DONATIONS, EXPENDITURES, OR
DISBURSEMENTS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS TO
THE FBI.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If a political committee
or an applicable individual (as defined in
paragraph (3)) receives an offer (orally, in
writing, or otherwise) of a prohibited con-
tribution, donation, expenditure, or disburse-
ment, the committee or applicable indi-
vidual shall, within 24 hours of receiving the
offer, report to the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation—
(A) to the extent known, the name, ad-
dress, and nationality of the foreign national
making the offer; and
(B) the amount and type of contribution,
donation, expenditure, or disbursement of-
fered.
(2) OFFENSE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful to
knowingly and willfully fail to comply with
paragraph (1).
(B) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subparagraph (A) shall be fined under title
18, United States Code, imprisoned not more
than 2 years, or both.
(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) APPLICABLE INDIVIDUAL.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘applicable indi-
vidual’’ means—
(I) an agent of a political committee;
(II) a candidate;
(III) an individual who is an immediate
family member of a candidate; or
(IV) any individual affiliated with a cam-
paign of a candidate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.046 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3668 June 18, 2019
(ii) IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER; INDIVIDUAL
AFFILIATED WITH A CAMPAIGN.—For purposes
of clause (i)—
(I) the term ‘‘immediate family member’’
means, with respect to a candidate, a parent,
parent in law, spouse, adult child, or sibling;
and
(II) the term ‘‘individual affiliated with a
campaign’’ means, with respect to a can-
didate, an employee of any organization le-
gally authorized under Federal, State, or
local law to support the candidate’s cam-
paign for nomination for, or election to, any
Federal, State, or local public office, as well
as any independent contractor of such an or-
ganization and any individual who performs
services for the organization on an unpaid
basis (including an intern or volunteer).
(B) FOREIGN NATIONAL.—The term ‘‘foreign
national’’ has the meaning given that term
in section 319(b) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971(52 U.S.C. 30121(b)).
(C) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’
has the meaning given that term in section
110.20(a)(4) of title 11, Code of Federal Regu-
lations (or any successor regulations).
(D) PROHIBITED CONTRIBUTION, DONATION,
EXPENDITURE, OR DISBURSEMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘prohibited con-
tribution, donation, expenditure, or disburse-
ment’’ means a contribution, donation, ex-
penditure, or disbursement prohibited under
section 319(a) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121(a)).
(ii) CLARIFICATION.—Such term includes,
with respect to a candidate or election, any
information—
(I) regarding any of the other candidates
for election for that office;
(II) that is not in the public domain; and
(III) which could be used to the advantage
of the campaign of the candidate.
(E) OTHER TERMS.—Any term used in this
subsection which is defined in section 301 of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30101) and which is not otherwise
defined in this subsection shall have the
meaning given such term under such section
301.
(d) CLARIFICATION REGARDING USE OF IN-
FORMATION REPORTED.—Information reported
under subsection (j) or (k) of section 304 of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30104), as added by subsection (b),
or under subsection (c)(1), may not be used
to enforce the provisions under chapter 4 of
title II of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1221 et seq.) relating to the re-
moval of undocumented aliens.
SA 646. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself,
Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. CASEY, and Ms. HAR-
RIS) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by her to the bill S. 1790,
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1226. EFFORTS TO ENSURE MEANINGFUL
PARTICIPATION OF AFGHAN WOMEN
IN PEACE NEGOTIATIONS IN AF-
GHANISTAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in coordination with the Secretary of De-
fense, shall carry out activities to ensure the
meaningful participation of Afghan women
in the ongoing peace process in Afghanistan
in a manner consistent with the Women,
Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (22 U.S.C.
2151 note; Public Law 115–68), which shall in-
clude—
(1) continued United States Government
advocacy for the inclusion of Afghan women
leaders in ongoing and future negotiations to
end the conflict in Afghanistan; and
(2) support for the inclusion of constitu-
tional protections on women’s and girls’
human rights that ensure their freedom of
movement, rights to education and work, po-
litical participation, and access to
healthcare and justice in any agreement
reached through intra-Afghan negotiations,
including negotiations with the Taliban.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State, in coordination with the
Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report
describing the steps taken to fulfill the du-
ties of the Secretary of State and the Sec-
retary of Defense under subsection (a).
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
SA 647. Mr. HEINRICH (for himself
and Mr. UDALL) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 3203(b)(1)(A), strike ‘‘sentence’’
and all that follows and insert the following:
‘‘sentences: ‘A member may be reappointed
for a second term only if the member was
confirmed by the Senate more than two
years into the member’s first term. A mem-
ber may not be reappointed for a third
term.’ ’’.
SA 648. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself
and Mr. DURBIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 1234 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 1234. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
INITIATIVE.
Section 1250 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public
Law 114–92; 129 Stat. 1068), as most recently
amended by section 1246 of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232), is
further amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘in coordi-
nation with the Secretary of State’’ and in-
serting ‘‘with the concurrence of the Sec-
retary of State’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) by amending paragraph (11) to read as
follows:
‘‘(11) Air defense and coastal defense ra-
dars, and systems to support effective com-
mand and control and integration of air de-
fense and coastal defense capabilities.’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (14) and
(15) as paragraphs (15) and (16), respectively;
(C) by inserting after paragraph (13) the
following new paragraph (14):
‘‘(14) Coastal defense and anti-ship missile
systems.’’; and
(D) in paragraph (15), as so redesignated,
by striking ‘‘paragraphs (1) through (13)’’ and
inserting ‘‘paragraphs (1) through (14)’’;
(3) in subsection (c), by amending para-
graph (5) to read as follows:
‘‘(5) LETHAL ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds
available for fiscal year 2020 pursuant to sub-
section (f)(5), $100,000,000 shall be available
only for lethal assistance described in para-
graphs (2), (3), (11), (12), and (14) of subsection
(b).’’;
(4) in subsection (f), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(5) For fiscal year 2020, $300,000,000.’’;
(5) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31,
2022’’;
(6) by redesignating the second subsection
(g) as subsection (i); and
(7) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(j) REPORT ON CAPABILITY AND CAPACITY
REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, the Secretary of Defense, in coordi-
nation with the Secretary of State, shall
submit a report to the congressional defense
committees on the capability and capacity
requirements of the military forces of
Ukraine.
‘‘(2) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The report
under paragraph (1) shall include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) An identification of the capability
gaps and capacity shortfalls of the military
of Ukraine.
‘‘(B) An assessment of the relative priority
assigned by the Government of Ukraine to
addressing such capability gaps and capacity
shortfalls.
‘‘(C) An assessment of the capability gaps
and capacity shortfalls that—
‘‘(i) may be addressed in a timely and effi-
cient manner by unilateral efforts of the
Government of Ukraine; and
‘‘(ii) are unlikely to be sufficiently ad-
dressed solely through unilateral efforts.
‘‘(D) An assessment of the capability gaps
and capacity shortfalls that may be ad-
dressed by the Ukraine Security Assistance
Initiative in a timely and efficient manner.
‘‘(E) A plan to provide the necessary re-
sources for the Ukraine Security Assistance
Initiative in fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022
to meet the most critical capability gaps and
capacity shortfalls of the military forces of
Ukraine.’’.
SA 649. Mr. WICKER (for himself and
Ms. CANTWELL) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike title XXXV and insert the fol-
lowing:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.047 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3669
June 18, 2019
TITLE XXXV—MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 3501. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Maritime
Administration Authorization and Enhance-
ment Act of 2019’’.
Subtitle A—Maritime Administration
SEC. 3511. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME
ADMINISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated to the Department of Trans-
portation for fiscal year 2020, to be available
without fiscal year limitation if so provided
in appropriations Acts, for programs associ-
ated with maintaining the United States
Merchant Marine, the following amounts:
(1) For expenses necessary for operations of
the United States Merchant Marine Acad-
emy, $95,944,000, of which—
(A) $77,944,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021 for Academy operations;
and
(B) $18,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for capital asset management at
the Academy.
(2) For expenses necessary to support the
State maritime academies, $50,280,000, of
which—
(A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021, for the Student Incentive
Program;
(B) $6,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for direct payments to such acad-
emies;
(C) $30,080,000 shall remain available until
expended for maintenance and repair of
State maritime academy training vessels;
(D) $3,800,000 shall remain available until
expended for training ship fuel assistance;
and
(E) $8,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for offsetting the costs of training
ship sharing.
(3) For expenses necessary to support the
National Security Multi-Mission Vessel Pro-
gram, $600,000,000, which shall remain avail-
able until expended.
(4) For expenses necessary to support Mari-
time Administration operations and pro-
grams, $60,442,000, of which $5,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended for activities
authorized under section 50307 of title 46,
United States Code.
(5) For expenses necessary to dispose of
vessels in the National Defense Reserve
Fleet, $5,000,000, which shall remain avail-
able until expended.
(6) For expenses necessary to maintain and
preserve a United States flag Merchant Ma-
rine to serve the national security needs of
the United States under chapter 531 of title
46, United States Code, $300,000,000, which
shall remain available until expended.
(7) For expenses necessary for the loan
guarantee program authorized under chapter
537 of title 46, United States Code, $33,000,000,
of which—
(A) $30,000,000 may be used for the cost (as
defined in section 502(5) of the Federal Credit
Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5)) of loan
guarantees under the program, which shall
remain available until expended; and
(B) $3,000,000 may be used for administra-
tive expenses relating to loan guarantee
commitments under the program.
(8) For expenses necessary to provide as-
sistance to small shipyards and for maritime
training programs under section 54101 of title
46, United States Code, $40,000,000, which
shall remain available until expended.
(9) For expenses necessary to implement
the Port and Intermodal Improvement Pro-
gram, $600,000,000, except that no funds shall
be used for a grant award to purchase fully
automated cargo handling equipment that is
remotely operated or remotely monitored
with or without the exercise of human inter-
vention or control, if the Secretary deter-
mines such equipment would result in a net
loss of jobs that relate to the movement of
goods through a port and its intermodal con-
nections.
SEC. 3512. MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM.
(a) AWARD OF OPERATING AGREEMENTS.—
Section 53103 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘2025’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘2035’’.
(b) EFFECTIVENESS OF OPERATING AGREE-
MENTS.—Section 53104(a) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘2025’’
and inserting ‘‘2035’’.
(c) PAYMENTS.—Section 53106(a)(1) of title
46, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking
‘‘$3,700,000 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023,
2024, and 2025.’’ and inserting ‘‘$5,233,463 for
each of fiscal years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025;
and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) $5,233,463 for each of fiscal years 2026
through 2035.’’.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 53111 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking
‘‘$222,000,000 for each fiscal year thereafter
through fiscal year 2025.’’ and inserting
‘‘$314,007,780 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023,
2024, and 2025; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) $314,007,780 for each of fiscal years 2026
through 2035.’’.
SEC. 3513. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.
The Inspector General of the Department
of Transportation shall—
(1) not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this title, initiate an audit of
the Maritime Administration’s actions to ad-
dress only those recommendations from
Chapter 3 and recommendations 5-1, 5-2, 5-3,
5-4, 5-5, and 5-6 identified by a National
Academy of Public Administration panel in
the November 2017 report entitled ‘‘Maritime
Administration: Defining its Mission, Align-
ing its Programs, and Meeting its Objec-
tives’’; and
(2) submit to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate
and the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives a report containing the results of that
audit once the audit is completed.
SEC. 3514. APPOINTMENT OF CANDIDATES AT-
TENDING SPONSORED PRE-
PARATORY SCHOOL.
Section 51303 of title 46, United State Code,
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) APPOINTMENT OF CANDIDATES SE-
LECTED FOR PREPARATORY SCHOOL SPONSOR-
SHIP.—The Secretary of Transportation may
appoint each year as cadets at the United
States Merchant Marine Academy not more
than 40 qualified individuals sponsored by
the Academy to attend preparatory school
during the academic year prior to entrance
in the Academy, and who have successfully
met the terms and conditions of sponsorship
set by the Academy.’’.
SEC. 3515. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON THE UNITED
STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACAD-
EMY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Secretary of Transportation shall seek to
enter into an agreement with the National
Academy of Public Administration (referred
to in this section as the ‘‘Academy’’) to
carry out the activities described in this sec-
tion.
(b) STUDY ELEMENTS.—In accordance with
the agreement described in subsection (a),
the Academy shall conduct a study of the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
that consists of the following:
(1) A comprehensive assessment of the
United States Merchant Marine Academy’s
systems, training, facilities, infrastructure,
information technology, and stakeholder en-
gagement.
(2) Identification of needs and opportuni-
ties for modernization to help the United
States Merchant Marine Academy keep pace
with more modern campuses.
(3) Development of an action plan for the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
with specific recommendations for—
(A) improvements or updates relating to
the opportunities described in paragraph (2);
and
(B) systemic changes needed to help the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
achieve its mission of inspiring and edu-
cating the next generation of the mariner
workforce on a long-term basis.
(c) DEADLINE AND REPORT.—Not later than
1 year after the date of the agreement de-
scribed in subsection (a), the Academy shall
prepare and submit to the Administrator of
the Maritime Administration a report con-
taining the action plan described in sub-
section (b)(3), including specific findings and
recommendations.
SEC. 3516. GENERAL SUPPORT PROGRAM.
Section 51501 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(c) NATIONAL MARITIME CENTERS OF EX-
CELLENCE.—The Secretary shall designate
each State maritime academy as a National
Maritime Center of Excellence.’’.
SEC. 3517. MILITARY TO MARINER.
(a) CREDENTIALING SUPPORT.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this title, the Secretary of Defense, the Sec-
retary of the Department in which the Coast
Guard operates, the Secretary of Commerce,
and the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, with respect to the applicable serv-
ices in their respective departments, and in
coordination with one another and with the
United States Committee on the Marine
Transportation System, and in consultation
with the Merchant Marine Personnel Advi-
sory Committee, shall, consistent with appli-
cable law, identify all training and experi-
ence within the applicable service that may
qualify for merchant mariner credentialing,
and submit a list of all identified training
and experience to the United States Coast
Guard National Maritime Center for a deter-
mination of whether such training and expe-
rience counts for credentialing purposes.
(b) REVIEW OF APPLICABLE SERVICE.—The
United States Coast Guard Commandant
shall make a determination of whether
training and experience counts for
credentialing purposes, as described in sub-
section (a), not later than 6 months after the
date on which the United States Coast Guard
National Maritime Center receives a submis-
sion under subsection (a) identifying a train-
ing or experience and requesting such a de-
termination.
(c) FEES AND SERVICES.—The Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of the Department in
which the Coast Guard operates, and the
Secretary of Commerce, with respect to the
applicable services in their respective de-
partments, shall—
(1) take all necessary and appropriate ac-
tions to provide for the waiver of fees
through the National Maritime Center li-
cense evaluation, issuance, and examination
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3670 June 18, 2019
for members of the uniformed services on ac-
tive duty, if a waiver is authorized and ap-
propriate, and, if a waiver is not granted,
take all necessary and appropriate actions to
provide for the payment of fees for members
of the uniformed services on active duty by
the applicable service to the fullest extent
permitted by law;
(2) direct the applicable services to take all
necessary and appropriate actions to provide
for Transportation Worker Identification
Credential cards for members of the uni-
formed services on active duty pursuing or
possessing a mariner credential, such as im-
plementation of an equal exchange process
for active duty service members at no or
minimal cost;
(3) ensure that members of the applicable
services who are to be discharged or released
from active duty and who request certifi-
cation or verification of sea service be pro-
vided such certification or verification no
later than one month after discharge or re-
lease;
(4) ensure the applicable services have de-
veloped, or continue to operate, as appro-
priate, the online resource known as
Credentialing Opportunities On-Line to sup-
port separating members of the uniformed
services who are seeking information and as-
sistance on merchant mariner credentialing;
and
(5) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this section, take all necessary
and appropriate actions to review and imple-
ment service-related medical certifications
to merchant mariner credential require-
ments.
(d) ADVANCING MILITARY TO MARINER WITH-
IN THE EMPLOYER AGENCIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
the Secretary of the Department in which
the Coast Guard operates, and the Secretary
of Commerce shall have direct hiring author-
ity to employ separated members of the uni-
formed services with valid merchant mariner
licenses or sea service experience in support
of United States national maritime needs,
including the Army Corps of Engineers, U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
(2) APPOINTMENTS OF RETIRED MEMBERS OF
THE ARMED FORCES.—Except in the case of po-
sitions in the Senior Executive Service, the
requirements of section 3326(b) of title 5,
United States Code, shall not apply with re-
spect to the hiring of a separated member of
the uniformed services under paragraph (1).
(e) SEPARATED MEMBER OF THE UNIFORMED
SERVICES.—In this section, the term ‘‘sepa-
rated member of the uniformed services’’
means an individual who—
(1) is retiring or is retired as a member of
the uniformed services;
(2) is voluntarily separating or voluntarily
separated from the uniformed services at the
end of enlistment or service obligation; or
(3) is administratively separating or has
administratively separated from the uni-
formed services with an honorable or general
discharge characterization.
SEC. 3518. SALVAGE RECOVERIES OF FEDERALLY
OWNED CARGOES.
Section 57100 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(h) FUNDS TRANSFER AUTHORITY RELATED
TO THE USE OF NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE
FLEET VESSELS AND THE PROVISION OF MARI-
TIME-RELATED SERVICES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—When the Secretary of
Transportation provides for the use of its
vessels or maritime-related services and
goods under a reimbursable agreement with
a Federal entity, or State or local entity, au-
thorized to receive goods and services from
the Maritime Administration for programs,
projects, activities, and expenses related to
the National Defense Reserve Fleet or mari-
time-related services:
‘‘(A) Federal entities are authorized to
transfer funds to the Secretary in advance of
expenditure or upon providing the goods or
services ordered, as determined by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(B) The Secretary shall determine all
other terms and conditions under which such
payments should be made and provide such
goods and services using its existing or new
contracts, including general agency agree-
ments, memoranda of understanding, or
similar agreements.
‘‘(2) REIMBURSABLE AGREEMENT WITH A FED-
ERAL ENTITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Maritime Adminis-
tration is authorized to provide maritime-re-
lated services and goods under a reimburs-
able agreement with a Federal entity.
‘‘(B) MARITIME-RELATED SERVICES DE-
FINED.—For the purposes of this subsection,
maritime-related services includes the acqui-
sition, procurement, operation, mainte-
nance, preservation, sale, lease, charter, con-
struction, reconstruction, or reconditioning
(including outfitting and equipping inci-
dental to construction, reconstruction, or re-
conditioning) of a merchant vessel or ship-
yard, ship site, terminal, pier, dock, ware-
house, or other installation related to the
maritime operations of a Federal entity.
‘‘(3) SALVAGING CARGOES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Maritime Adminis-
tration may provide services and purchase
goods relating to the salvaging of cargoes
aboard vessels in the custody or control of
the Maritime Administration or its prede-
cessor agencies and receive and retain reim-
bursement from Federal entities for all such
costs as it may incur.
‘‘(B) REIMBURSEMENT.—Reimbursement as
provided for in subparagraph (A) may come
from—
‘‘(i) the proceeds recovered from such sal-
vage; or
‘‘(ii) the Federal entity for which the Mari-
time Administration has or will provide such
goods and services, depending on the agree-
ment of the parties involved.
‘‘(4) AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—Amounts re-
ceived as reimbursements under this sub-
section shall be credited to the fund or ac-
count that was used to cover the costs in-
curred by the Secretary or, if the period of
availability of obligations for that appro-
priation has expired, to the appropriation of
funds that is currently available to the Sec-
retary for substantially the same purpose.
Amounts so credited shall be merged with
amounts in such fund or account and shall be
available for the same purposes, and subject
to the same conditions and limitations, as
amounts in such fund or account.
‘‘(5) ADVANCE PAYMENTS.—Payments made
in advance shall be for any part of the esti-
mated cost as determined by the Secretary
of Transportation. Adjustments to the
amounts paid in advance shall be made as
agreed to by the Secretary of Transportation
and the head of the ordering agency or unit
based on the actual cost of goods or services
provided.
‘‘(6) BILL OR REQUEST FOR PAYMENT.—A bill
submitted or a request for payment is not
subject to audit or certification in advance
of payment.’’.
SEC. 3519. SALVAGE RECOVERIES FOR SUB-
ROGATED OWNERSHIP OF VESSELS
AND CARGOES.
Section 53909 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(e) SALVAGE AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary
of Transportation is authorized to enter into
marine salvage agreements for the recov-
eries, sale, and disposal of sunken or dam-
aged vessels, cargoes, or properties owned or
insured by or on behalf of the Maritime Ad-
ministration, the United States Shipping
Board, the U.S. Shipping Bureau, the United
States Maritime Commission, or the War
Shipping Administration.
‘‘(f) MILITARY CRAFT.—The Secretary of
Transportation shall consult with the Sec-
retary of the military department concerned
prior to engaging in or authorizing any ac-
tivity under subsection (e) that will disturb
sunken military craft, as defined in title XIV
of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (10
U.S.C. 113 note).
‘‘(g) RECOVERIES.—Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the net proceeds from sal-
vage agreements entered into as authorized
in subsection (e) shall remain available until
expended and be distributed as follows for
marine insurance-related salvages:
‘‘(1) Fifty percent of the net funds recov-
ered shall be deposited in the war risk re-
volving fund and shall be available for the
purposes of the war risk revolving fund.
‘‘(2) Fifty percent of the net funds recov-
ered shall be deposited in the Vessel Oper-
ations Revolving Fund as established by sec-
tion 50301(a) of this title and shall be avail-
able until expended as follows:
‘‘(A) Fifty percent shall be available to the
Administrator of the Maritime Administra-
tion for such acquisition, maintenance, re-
pair, reconditioning, or improvement of ves-
sels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet as
is authorized under other Federal law.
‘‘(B) Twenty-five percent shall be available
to the Administrator of the Maritime Ad-
ministration for the payment or reimburse-
ment of expenses incurred by or on behalf of
State maritime academies or the United
States Merchant Marine Academy for facil-
ity and training ship maintenance, repair,
and modernization, and for the purchase of
simulators and fuel.
‘‘(C) The remainder shall be distributed for
maritime heritage preservation to the De-
partment of the Interior for grants as au-
thorized by section 308703 of title 54.’’.
SEC. 3520. PORT OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND
TECHNOLOGY.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Ports Improvement Act’’.
(b) PORT AND INTERMODAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM.—Section 50302 of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking sub-
section (c) and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) PORT AND INTERMODAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Subject to the
availability of appropriations, the Secretary
of Transportation shall make grants, on a
competitive basis, to eligible applicants to
assist in funding eligible projects for the pur-
pose of improving the safety, efficiency, or
reliability of the movement of goods through
ports and intermodal connections to ports.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE APPLICANT.—The Secretary
may make a grant under this subsection to
the following:
‘‘(A) A State.
‘‘(B) A political subdivision of a State, or a
local government.
‘‘(C) A public agency or publicly chartered
authority established by 1 or more States.
‘‘(D) A special purpose district with a
transportation function.
‘‘(E) An Indian Tribe (as defined in section
4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304), with-
out regard to capitalization), or a consor-
tium of Indian Tribes.
‘‘(F) A multistate or multijurisdictional
group of entities described in this paragraph.
‘‘(G) A lead entity described in subpara-
graph (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) jointly
with a private entity or group of private en-
tities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3671
June 18, 2019
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—The Secretary
may make a grant under this subsection—
‘‘(A) for a project, or package of projects,
that—
‘‘(i) is either—
‘‘(I) within the boundary of a port; or
‘‘(II) outside the boundary of a port, but is
directly related to port operations or to an
intermodal connection to a port; and
‘‘(ii) will be used to improve the safety, ef-
ficiency, or reliability of—
‘‘(I) the loading and unloading of goods at
the port, such as for marine terminal equip-
ment;
‘‘(II) the movement of goods into, out of,
around, or within a port, such as for highway
or rail infrastructure, intermodal facilities,
freight intelligent transportation systems,
and digital infrastructure systems; or
‘‘(III) environmental mitigation measures
and operational improvements directly re-
lated to enhancing the efficiency of ports
and intermodal connections to ports; or
‘‘(B) notwithstanding paragraph (6)(A)(v),
to provide financial assistance to 1 or more
projects under subparagraph (A) for develop-
ment phase activities, including planning,
feasibility analysis, revenue forecasting, en-
vironmental review, permitting, and prelimi-
nary engineering and design work.
‘‘(4) PROHIBITED USES.—A grant award
under this subsection may not be used—
‘‘(A) to finance or refinance the construc-
tion, reconstruction, reconditioning, or pur-
chase of a vessel that is eligible for such as-
sistance under chapter 537, unless the Sec-
retary determines such vessel—
‘‘(i) is necessary for a project described in
paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(III) of this subsection;
and
‘‘(ii) is not receiving assistance under
chapter 537; or
‘‘(B) for any project within a small ship-
yard (as defined in section 54101).
‘‘(5) APPLICATIONS AND PROCESS.—
‘‘(A) APPLICATIONS.—To be eligible for a
grant under this subsection, an eligible ap-
plicant shall submit to the Secretary an ap-
plication in such form, at such time, and
containing such information as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate.
‘‘(B) SOLICITATION PROCESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date that amounts are made
available for grants under this subsection for
a fiscal year, the Secretary shall solicit
grant applications for eligible projects in ac-
cordance with this subsection.
‘‘(6) PROJECT SELECTION CRITERIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may se-
lect a project described in paragraph (3) for
funding under this subsection if the Sec-
retary determines that—
‘‘(i) the project improves the safety, effi-
ciency, or reliability of the movement of
goods through a port or intermodal connec-
tion to a port;
‘‘(ii) the project is cost effective;
‘‘(iii) the eligible applicant has authority
to carry out the project;
‘‘(iv) the eligible applicant has sufficient
funding available to meet the matching re-
quirements under paragraph (8);
‘‘(v) the project will be completed without
unreasonable delay; and
‘‘(vi) the project cannot be easily and effi-
ciently completed without Federal funding
or financial assistance available to the
project sponsor.
‘‘(B) ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS.—In se-
lecting projects described in paragraph (3)
for funding under this subsection, the Sec-
retary shall give substantial weight to—
‘‘(i) the utilization of non-Federal con-
tributions;
‘‘(ii) the net benefits of the funds awarded
under this subsection, considering the cost-
benefit analysis of the project, as applicable;
and
‘‘(iii) the public benefits of the funds
awarded under this subsection.
‘‘(C) SMALL PROJECTS.—The Secretary may
waive the cost-benefit analysis under sub-
paragraph (A)(ii), and establish a simplified,
alternative basis for determining whether a
project is cost effective, for a small project
described in paragraph (7)(B).
‘‘(7) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(A) GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION.—Not more
than 25 percent of the amounts made avail-
able for grants under this subsection for a
fiscal year may be used to make grants for
projects in any 1 State.
‘‘(B) SMALL PROJECTS.—The Secretary shall
reserve 25 percent of the amounts made
available for grants under this subsection
each fiscal year to make grants for eligible
projects described in paragraph (3)(A) that
request the lesser of—
‘‘(i) 10 percent of the amounts made avail-
able for grants under this subsection for a
fiscal year; or
‘‘(ii) $11,000,000.
‘‘(C) DEVELOPMENT PHASE ACTIVITIES.—Not
more than 10 percent of the amounts made
available for grants under this subsection for
a fiscal year may be used to make grants for
development phase activities under para-
graph (3)(B).
‘‘(8) FEDERAL SHARE OF TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS.—
‘‘(A) TOTAL PROJECT COSTS.—To be eligible
for a grant under this subsection, an eligible
applicant shall submit to the Secretary an
estimate of the total costs of a project under
this subsection based on the best available
information, including any available engi-
neering studies, studies of economic feasi-
bility, environmental analyses, and informa-
tion on the expected use of equipment or fa-
cilities.
‘‘(B) FEDERAL SHARE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the Federal share of the total
costs of a project under this subsection shall
not exceed 80 percent.
‘‘(ii) RURAL AREAS.—The Secretary may in-
crease the Federal share of costs above 80
percent for a project located in a rural area.
‘‘(9) PROCEDURAL SAFEGUARDS.—The Sec-
retary shall issue guidelines to establish ap-
propriate accounting, reporting, and review
procedures to ensure that—
‘‘(A) grant funds are used for the purposes
for which those funds were made available;
‘‘(B) each grantee properly accounts for all
expenditures of grant funds; and
‘‘(C) grant funds not used for such purposes
and amounts not obligated or expended are
returned.
‘‘(10) CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall re-
quire as a condition of making a grant under
this subsection that a grantee—
‘‘(i) maintain such records as the Secretary
considers necessary;
‘‘(ii) make the records described in clause
(i) available for review and audit by the Sec-
retary; and
‘‘(iii) periodically report to the Secretary
such information as the Secretary considers
necessary to assess progress.
‘‘(B) LABOR.—The Federal wage rate re-
quirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of
title 40 shall apply, in the same manner as
such requirements apply to contracts subject
to such subchapter, to—
‘‘(i) each project for which a grant is pro-
vided under this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) all portions of a project described in
clause (i), regardless of whether such a por-
tion is funded using—
‘‘(I) other Federal funds; or
‘‘(II) non-Federal funds.
‘‘(11) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUC-
TION.—Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to affect existing authorities to
conduct port infrastructure programs in—
‘‘(A) Hawaii, as authorized by section 9008
of the SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109–59;
119 Stat. 1926);
‘‘(B) Alaska, as authorized by section 10205
of the SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109–59;
119 Stat. 1934); or
‘‘(C) Guam, as authorized by section 3512 of
the Duncan Hunter National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (48
U.S.C. 1421r).
‘‘(12) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(A) ADMINISTRATIVE AND OVERSIGHT
COSTS.—The Secretary may retain not more
than 2 percent of the amounts appropriated
for each fiscal year under this subsection for
the administrative and oversight costs in-
curred by the Secretary to carry out this
subsection.
‘‘(B) AVAILABILITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Amounts appropriated
for carrying out this subsection shall remain
available until expended.
‘‘(ii) UNEXPENDED FUNDS.—Amounts award-
ed as a grant under this subsection that are
not expended by the grantee during the 5-
year period following the date of the award
shall remain available to the Secretary for
use for grants under this subsection in a sub-
sequent fiscal year.
‘‘(13) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘appropriate committees
of Congress’ means—
‘‘(i) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate; and
‘‘(ii) the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives.
‘‘(B) PORT.—The term ‘port’ includes—
‘‘(i) a seaport; and
‘‘(ii) an inland waterways port.
‘‘(C) PROJECT.—The term ‘project’ includes
construction, reconstruction, environmental
rehabilitation, acquisition of property, in-
cluding land related to the project and im-
provements to the land, equipment acquisi-
tion, and operational improvements.
‘‘(D) RURAL AREA.—The term ‘rural area’
means an area that is outside an urbanized
area.
‘‘(d) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY OF THE SEC-
RETARY.—In carrying out this section, the
Secretary may—
‘‘(1) receive funds from a Federal or non-
Federal entity that has a specific agreement
with the Secretary to further the purposes of
this section;
‘‘(2) coordinate with other Federal agencies
to expedite the process established under the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for the improvement
of port facilities to improve the efficiency of
the transportation system, to increase port
security, or to provide greater access to port
facilities;
‘‘(3) seek to coordinate all reviews or re-
quirements with appropriate Federal, State,
and local agencies; and
‘‘(4) in addition to any financial assistance
provided under subsection (c), provide such
technical assistance to port authorities or
commissions or their subdivisions and agents
as needed for project planning, design, and
construction.’’.
(c) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—A repeal made by
subsection (b) of this section shall not affect
amounts apportioned or allocated before the
effective date of the repeal. Such appor-
tioned or allocated funds shall continue to be
subject to the requirements to which the
funds were subject under section 50302(c) of
title 46, United States Code, as in effect on
the day before the date of enactment of this
title.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3672 June 18, 2019
SEC. 3521. ASSESSMENT AND REPORT ON STRA-
TEGIC SEAPORTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this title,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
on port facilities used for military purposes
at ports designated by the Department of De-
fense as strategic seaports.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include, with respect to port
facilities included in the report, the fol-
lowing:
(1) An assessment whether there are struc-
tural integrity or other deficiencies in such
facilities.
(2) If there are such deficiencies—
(A) an assessment of infrastructure im-
provements to such facilities that would be
needed to meet, directly or indirectly, na-
tional security and readiness requirements;
(B) an assessment of the impact on oper-
ational readiness of the Armed Forces if such
improvements are not undertaken; and
(C) an identification of, to the maximum
extent practical, all potential funding
sources for such improvements from existing
authorities.
(3) An identification of the support that
would be appropriate for the Department of
Defense to provide in the execution of the
Secretary of Transportation’s responsibil-
ities under section 50302 of title 46, United
States Code, with respect to such facilities.
(4) If additional statutory or administra-
tive authorities would be required for the
provision of support as described in para-
graph (3), recommendations for legislative or
administrative action to establish such au-
thorities.
(c) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall prepare the report required by
subsection (a) in consultation with the Mari-
time Administrator and the individual re-
sponsible for each port facility described in
such subsection.
SEC. 3522. MARITIME TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM.
Section 50307 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘The Sec-
retary of Transportation may engage in the
environmental study’’ and inserting ‘‘The
Maritime Administrator, on behalf of the
Secretary of Transportation, shall engage in
the study’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘may’’ and inserting ‘‘shall’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘that are likely to achieve
environmental improvements by’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘to improve’’;
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A)
through (C) as clauses (i) through (iii), re-
spectively;
(iii) by inserting before clause (i), the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) environmental performance to meet
United States Federal and international
standards and guidelines, including—’’; and
(iv) in clause (iii), as redesignated by
clause (ii), by striking ‘‘species; and’’ and all
that follows through the end of the sub-
section and inserting ‘‘species; or
‘‘(iv) reducing propeller cavitation; and
‘‘(B) the efficiency and safety of domestic
maritime industries; and
‘‘(2) coordinate with the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and
other Federal, State, local, or tribal agen-
cies, as appropriate.’’.
(3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ‘‘bene-
fits’’ and inserting ‘‘or other benefits to do-
mestic maritime industries’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) LIMITATIONS ON THE USE OF FUNDS.—.
Not more than 3 percent of funds appro-
priated to carry out this program may be
used for administrative purposes.’’.
SEC. 3523. REQUIREMENT FOR SMALL SHIPYARD
GRANTEES.
Section 54101(d) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Grants awarded’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Grants awarded’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) BUY AMERICA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), no funds may be obligated by the Admin-
istrator of the Maritime Administration
under this section, unless each product and
material purchased with those funds (includ-
ing products and materials purchased by a
grantee), and including any commercially
available off-the-shelf item, is—
‘‘(i) an unmanufactured article, material,
or supply that has been mined or produced in
the United States; or
‘‘(ii) a manufactured article, material, or
supply that has been manufactured in the
United States substantially all from articles,
materials, or supplies mined, produced, or
manufactured in the United States.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), the requirements of that sub-
paragraph shall not apply with respect to a
particular product or material if the Admin-
istrator determines—
‘‘(I) that the application of those require-
ments would be inconsistent with the public
interest;
‘‘(II) that such product or material is not
available in the United States in sufficient
and reasonably available quantities, of a sat-
isfactory quality, or on a timely basis; or
‘‘(III) that inclusion of a domestic product
or material will increase the cost of that
product or material by more than 25 percent,
with respect to a certain contract between a
grantee and that grantee’s supplier.
‘‘(ii) FEDERAL REGISTER.—A determination
made by the Administrator under this sub-
paragraph shall be published in the Federal
Register.
‘‘(C) DEFINITIONS.—ln this paragraph:
‘‘(i) The term ‘commercially available off-
the-shelf item’ means—
‘‘(I) any item of supply (including con-
struction material) that is—
‘‘(aa) a commercial item, as defined by sec-
tion 2.101 of title 48, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (as in effect on the date of enactment
of the Maritime Administration Authoriza-
tion and Enhancement Act of 2019); and
‘‘(bb) sold in substantial quantities in the
commercial marketplace; and
‘‘(II) does not include bulk cargo, as de-
fined in section 40102(4) of this title, such as
agricultural products and petroleum prod-
ucts.
‘‘(ii) The term ‘product or material’ means
an article, material, or supply brought to the
site by the recipient for incorporation into
the building, work, or project. The term also
includes an item brought to the site
preassembled from articles, materials, or
supplies. However, emergency life safety sys-
tems, such as emergency lighting, fire alarm,
and audio evacuation systems, that are dis-
crete systems incorporated into a public
building or work and that are produced as
complete systems, are evaluated as a single
and distinct construction material regard-
less of when or how the individual parts or
components of those systems are delivered to
the construction site.
‘‘(iii) The term ‘United States’ includes the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands,
Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Is-
lands.’’.
SEC. 3524. IMPROVEMENT OF NATIONAL OCEANO-
GRAPHIC PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.
(a) ADDITIONAL MEANS OF ACHIEVEMENT OF
GOALS OF PROGRAM THROUGH OCEANOGRAPHIC
EFFORTS.—Section 8931(b)(2)(A) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, creating,’’ after ‘‘identi-
fying’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘science,’’ after ‘‘areas of’’.
(b) NATIONAL OCEAN RESEARCH LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP.—Section 8932 of title
10, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (f) through
(h) as subsections (g) through (i), respec-
tively;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking paragraph (10);
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (11)
through (14) as paragraphs (12) through (15),
respectively; and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(10) The Director of the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management of the Department of
the Interior.
‘‘(11) The Director of the Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement of the De-
partment of the Interior.’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘broad
participation within the oceanographic com-
munity’’ and inserting ‘‘appropriate partici-
pation within the oceanographic community,
which may include public, academic, com-
mercial, and private participation or sup-
port’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking
‘‘peer’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking subpara-
graph (D) and inserting the following:
‘‘(D) Preexisting facilities, such as regional
data centers operated by the Integrated
Ocean Observing System, and expertise.’’;
(4) in subsection (e)—
(A) in the subsection heading by striking
‘‘REPORT’’ and inserting ‘‘BRIEFING’’;
(B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘to Congress a report’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate, the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources of the Senate, the Committee
on Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives, and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives a
briefing’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘report’’ and inserting
‘‘briefing’’ each place the term appears;
(D) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(4) A description of the involvement of
Federal agencies and non-Federal contribu-
tors participating in the program.’’; and
(E) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘and the
estimated expenditures under such pro-
grams, projects, and activities during such
following fiscal year’’ and inserting ‘‘and the
estimated expenditures under such pro-
grams, projects, and activities of the pro-
gram during such following fiscal year’’;
(5) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of
each year, the Council shall publish on a
publically available website a report summa-
rizing the briefing described in subsection
(e).’’;
(6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) The Secretary of the Navy shall estab-
lish an office to support the National Ocean-
ographic Partnership Program. The Council
shall use competitive procedures in selecting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3673
June 18, 2019
an operator for the partnership program of-
fice.’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ‘‘,
where appropriate,’’ before ‘‘managing’’; and
(7) by amending subsection (h), as redesig-
nated by paragraph (1), to read as follows:
‘‘(h) CONTRACT AND GRANT AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To carry out the pur-
poses of the National Oceanographic Part-
nership Program, the Council shall have, in
addition to other powers otherwise given it
under this chapter, the following authorities:
‘‘(A) To authorize one or more of the de-
partments or agencies represented on the
Council to enter into contracts and make
grants or cooperative agreements, and estab-
lish and manage new collaborative programs
as considered appropriate, to address emerg-
ing science priorities using both donated and
appropriated funds.
‘‘(B) To authorize the program office under
subsection (g), on behalf of and subject to
the direction and approval of the Council, to
accept funds, including fines and penalties,
from other Federal and State departments
and agencies.
‘‘(C) To authorize the program office, on
behalf of and subject to the direction and ap-
proval of the Council, to award grants and
enter into contracts for purposes of the Na-
tional Oceanographic Partnership Program.
‘‘(D) To transfer funds to other Federal and
State departments and agencies in further-
ance of the purposes of the National Oceano-
graphic Partnership Program.
‘‘(E) To authorize one or more of the de-
partments or agencies represented on the
Council to enter into contracts and make
grants, for the purpose of implementing the
National Oceanographic Partnership Pro-
gram and carrying out the responsibilities of
the Council.
‘‘(F) To use, with the consent of the head
of the agency or entity concerned, on a non-
reimbursable basis, the land, services, equip-
ment, personnel, facilities, advice, and infor-
mation provided by a Federal agency or enti-
ty, State, local government, Tribal govern-
ment, territory, or possession, or any sub-
divisions thereof, or the District of Columbia
as may be helpful in the performance of the
duties of the Council.
‘‘(2) FUNDS TRANSFERRED.—Funds identi-
fied for direct support of National Oceano-
graphic Partnership Program grants are au-
thorized for transfer between agencies and
are exempt from section 1535 of title 31,
United States Code (commonly known as the
‘‘Economy Act of 1932’’).’’.
(c) OCEAN RESEARCH ADVISORY PANEL.—
Section 8933(a)(4) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘State govern-
ments’’ and inserting ‘‘State and Tribal gov-
ernments’’.
SEC. 3525. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE MARITIME
GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 53701 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (5);
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through
(15) as paragraphs (5) through (14), respec-
tively; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(15) VESSEL OF NATIONAL INTEREST.—The
term ‘Vessel of National Interest’ means a
vessel deemed to be of national interest that
meets characteristics determined by the Ad-
ministrator, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Secretary of the De-
partment in which the Coast Guard Oper-
ates, or the heads of other Federal agencies,
as described in section 53703(d).’’.
(b) PREFERRED LENDER.—Section 53702(a) of
title 46, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) PREFERRED ELIGIBLE LENDER.—The
Federal Financing Bank shall be the pre-
ferred eligible lender of the principal and in-
terest of the guaranteed obligations issued
under this chapter.’’.
(c) APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION.—
Section 53703 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘procedures’’ and inserting ‘‘and administra-
tion’’;
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To assess and mitigate
the risks due to factors associated with mar-
kets, technology, financial, or legal struc-
tures related to an application or guarantee
under this chapter, the Secretary or Admin-
istrator may utilize third party experts, in-
cluding legal counsel, to—
‘‘(A) process and review applications under
this chapter, including conducting inde-
pendent analysis and review of aspects of an
application;
‘‘(B) represent the Secretary or Adminis-
trator in structuring and documenting the
obligation guarantee;
‘‘(C) analyze and review aspects of, struc-
ture, and document the obligation guarantee
during the term of the guarantee;
‘‘(D) recommend financial covenants or fi-
nancial ratios to be met by the applicant
during the time a guarantee under this chap-
ter is outstanding that are—
‘‘(i) based on the financial covenants or fi-
nancial ratios, if any, that are then applica-
ble to the obligor under private sector credit
agreements; and
‘‘(ii) in lieu of other financial covenants
applicable to the obligor under this chapter
with respect to requirements regarding long-
term debt-to-equity, minimum working cap-
ital, or minimum amount of equity; and
‘‘(E) represent the Secretary or Adminis-
trator to protect the security interests of
the Government relating to an obligation
guarantee.
‘‘(2) PRIVATE SECTOR EXPERT.—Independent
analysis, review, and representation con-
ducted under this subsection shall be per-
formed by a private sector expert in the ap-
plicable field who is selected by the Sec-
retary or Administrator.
‘‘(d) VESSELS OF NATIONAL INTEREST.—
‘‘(1) NOTICE OF FUNDING.—The Secretary or
Administrator may post a notice in the Fed-
eral Register regarding the availability of
funding for obligation guarantees under this
chapter for the construction, reconstruction,
or reconditioning of a Vessel of National In-
terest and include a timeline for the submis-
sion of applications for such vessels.
‘‘(2) VESSEL CHARACTERISTICS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary or Ad-
ministrator, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Secretary of the De-
partment in which the Coast Guard Oper-
ates, or the heads of other Federal agencies,
shall develop and publish a list of vessel
types that would be considered Vessels of
National Interest.
‘‘(B) REVIEW.—Such list shall be reviewed
and revised every 4 years or as necessary, as
determined by the Administrator.’’.
(d) FUNDING LIMITS.—Section 53704 of title
46, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘that amount’’ and all the
follows through ‘‘$850,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘that amount, $850,000,000’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘facilities’’ and all that fol-
lows through the end of the subsection and
inserting ‘‘facilities.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(4)—
(A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B)
through (K), as subparagraphs (A) through
(J), respectively.
(e) ELIGIBLE PURPOSES OF OBLIGATIONS.—
Section 53706 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)(A)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘(including an eligible export ves-
sel);’’
(B) in clause (iv) by adding ‘‘or’’ after the
semicolon;
(C) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘; or’’ and in-
serting a period; and
(D) by striking clause (vi); and
(2) in subsection (c)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) after applying subparagraphs (A) and
(B), Vessels of National Interest.’’.
(f) AMOUNT OF OBLIGATIONS.—Section
53709(b) of title 46, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by striking paragraphs (3) and (6); and
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5)
as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively.
(g) CONTENTS OF OBLIGATIONS.—Section
53710 of title 46, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘or, in the case of’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘party’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon;
and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) documented under the laws of the
United States for the term of the guarantee
of the obligation or until the obligation is
paid in full, whichever is sooner.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘AND PROVIDE FOR THE FINANCIAL STABILITY
OF THE OBLIGOR’’ after ‘‘INTERESTS’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘provisions for the protec-
tion of’’ and inserting ‘‘provisions, which
shall include—
‘‘(1) provisions for the protection of’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘, and other matters that
the Secretary or Administrator may pre-
scribe.’’ and inserting, ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) any other provisions that the Sec-
retary or Administrator may prescribe.’’.
(h) ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.—Section 53713 of
title 46, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘reasonable for—’’ and inserting
‘‘ reasonable for processing the application
and monitoring the loan guarantee, includ-
ing for—’’;
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting ‘‘or a deposit fund under sec-
tion 53716 of this title;’’;
(C) in paragraph (5), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) monitoring and providing services re-
lated to the obligor’s compliance with any
terms related to the obligations, the guar-
antee, or maintenance of the Secretary or
Administrator’s security interests under this
chapter.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘under
section 53708(d) of this title’’ and inserting
‘‘under section 53703(c) of this title’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (1)
through (3) as subparagraphs (A) through (C),
respectively;
(C) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) FEE LIMITATION INAPPLICABLE.—Fees
collected under this subsection are not sub-
ject to the limitation of subsection (b).’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3674 June 18, 2019
(i) BEST PRACTICES; ELIGIBLE EXPORT VES-
SELS.—Chapter 537 of title 46, United States
Code, is further amended—
(1) in subchapter I, by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘§ 53719. Best practices
‘‘The Secretary or Administrator shall en-
sure that all standard documents and agree-
ments that relate to loan guarantees made
pursuant to this chapter are reviewed and
updated every four years to ensure that such
documents and agreements meet the current
commercial best practices to the extent per-
mitted by law.’’; and
(2) in subchapter III, by striking section
53732.
(j) EXPRESS CONSIDERATION OF LOW-RISK
APPLICATIONS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this title, the Ad-
ministrator of the Maritime Administration
shall, in consultation with affected stake-
holders, create a process for express proc-
essing of low-risk maritime guaranteed loan
applications under chapter 537 of title 46,
United States Code, based on Federal and in-
dustry best practices, including proposals to
better assist applicants to submit complete
applications within 6 months of the initial
application.
(k) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—
(1) NOTIFICATION.—Not less than 60 days be-
fore reorganizing or consolidating the activi-
ties or personnel covered under chapter 537
of title 46, United States Code, the Secretary
of Transportation shall notify, in writing,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives of the pro-
posed reorganization or consolidation.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each notification under
paragraph (1) shall include an evaluation of,
and justification for, the reorganization or
consolidation.
(l) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(1) The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 53718 the following new item:
‘‘53719. Best practices.’’.
(2) The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, is
further amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 53732.
SEC. 3526. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
GUIDANCE.—Not later than 120 days after the
date of enactment of this title, the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, in
consultation with the Administrator of the
Maritime Administration, shall identify key
skills and competencies necessary to main-
tain a balance of expertise in merchant ma-
rine seagoing service and strategic sealift
military service in each of the following po-
sitions within the Office of the Commandant:
(1) Commandant.
(2) Deputy Commandant.
(3) Tactical company officers.
(4) Regimental officers.
(b) SEA YEAR COMPLIANCE.—Section
3514(a)(1)(A) of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law
114–328; 46 U.S.C. 51318 note) is amended by
inserting ‘‘domestic and international’’ after
‘‘criteria that’’.
SEC. 3527. UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE
ACADEMY’S SEXUAL ASSAULT PRE-
VENTION AND RESPONSE PROGRAM.
(a) IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDA-
TIONS.—The Secretary of Transportation
shall ensure that, not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this title, the
recommendations in the Inspector General of
the Department of Transportation’s report
on the effectiveness of the United States
Merchant Marine Academy’s Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response program (mandated
under section 3512 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Pub-
lic Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2786)), are fully im-
plemented.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this title, the Sec-
retary of Transportation shall submit a re-
port to Congress—
(1) confirming that the recommendations
described in subsection (a) have been fully
implemented, and explaining how those rec-
ommendations have been implemented; or
(2) if such recommendations have not been
fully implemented as of the date of the re-
port, including an explanation of why such
recommendations have not been fully imple-
mented and a description of the resources
that are needed to fully implement such rec-
ommendations.
SEC. 3528. REPORT ON VESSELS FOR EMERGING
OFFSHORE ENERGY INFRASTRUC-
TURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Trans-
portation, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Energy, the Secretary of the Inte-
rior, and the heads of other relevant agencies
as appropriate, shall prepare and submit a
report on the need for vessels to install, op-
erate, and maintain emerging offshore en-
ergy infrastructure, including offshore wind
energy.
(b) CONTENTS.—Such report shall include—
(1) an inventory of vessels (including exist-
ing vessels and vessels that have the poten-
tial to be refurbished) to install, operate, and
maintain such emerging offshore energy in-
frastructure;
(2) a projection of existing vessels needed
to meet such emerging offshore energy needs
over the next 10 years; and
(3) policy recommendations to ensure the
vessel capacity to support such emerging off-
shore energy.
(c) TRANSMITTAL.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Secretary of Transportation shall submit
such report to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources of the Senate, and the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives.
Subtitle B—Maritime SAFE Act
SEC. 3531. SHORT TITLES.
(a) SHORT TITLES.—This subtitle may be
cited as the ‘‘Maritime Security and Fish-
eries Enforcement Act’’ or the ‘‘Maritime
SAFE Act’’.
SEC. 3532. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) AIS.—The term ‘‘AIS’’ means Auto-
matic Identification System (as defined in
section 164.46 of title 33, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, or a similar successor regulation).
(2) COMBINED MARITIME FORCES.—The term
‘‘Combined Maritime Forces’’ means the 33-
nation naval partnership, originally estab-
lished in February 2002, which promotes se-
curity, stability, and prosperity across ap-
proximately 3,200,000 square miles of inter-
national waters.
(3) EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Unless otherwise speci-
fied by the President as being in the public
interest in a writing published in the Federal
Register, the term ‘‘exclusive economic
zone’’ means—
(i) the area within a zone established by a
maritime boundary that has been established
by a treaty in force or a treaty that is being
provisionally applied by the United States;
or
(ii) in the absence of a treaty described in
clause (i)—
(I) a zone, the outer boundary of which is
200 nautical miles from the baseline from
which the breadth of the territorial sea is
measured; or
(II) if the distance between the United
States and another country is less than 400
nautical miles, a zone, the outer boundary of
which is represented by a line equidistant be-
tween the United States and the other coun-
try.
(B) INNER BOUNDARY.—Without affecting
any Presidential Proclamation with regard
to the establishment of the United States
territorial sea or exclusive economic zone,
the inner boundary of the exclusive eco-
nomic zone is—
(i) in the case of coastal States, a line co-
terminous with the seaward boundary of
each such State (as described in section 4 of
the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1312));
(ii) in the case of the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, a line that is 3 marine leagues
from the coastline of the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico;
(iii) in the case of American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and the
Northern Mariana Islands, a line that is 3 ge-
ographic miles from the coastlines of Amer-
ican Samoa, the United States Virgin Is-
lands, Guam, or the Northern Mariana Is-
lands, respectively; or
(iv) for any possession of the United States
not referred to in clause (ii) or (iii), the
coastline of such possession.
(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph may be construed to diminish
the authority of the Department of Defense,
the Department of the Interior, or any other
Federal department or agency.
(4) FOOD SECURITY.—The term ‘‘food secu-
rity’’ means access to, and availability, uti-
lization, and stability of, sufficient food to
meet caloric and nutritional needs for an ac-
tive and healthy life.
(5) GLOBAL RECORD OF FISHING VESSELS, RE-
FRIGERATED TRANSPORT VESSELS, AND SUPPLY
VESSELS.—The term ‘‘global record of fishing
vessels, refrigerated transport vessels, and
supply vessels’’ means the Food and Agri-
culture Organization of the United Nations’
initiative to rapidly make available certified
data from state authorities about vessels and
vessel related activities.
(6) IUU FISHING.—The term ‘‘IUU fishing’’
means illegal fishing, unreported fishing, or
unregulated fishing (as such terms are de-
fined in paragraph 3 of the International
Plan of Action to Prevent, Deter, and Elimi-
nate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated
Fishing, adopted at the 24th Session of the
Committee on Fisheries in Rome on March 2,
2001).
(7) PORT STATE MEASURES AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Port State Measures Agreement’’
means the Agreement on Port State Meas-
ures to Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Ille-
gal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing set
forth by the Food and Agriculture Organiza-
tion of the United Nations, done at Rome,
Italy November 22, 2009, and entered into
force June 5, 2016, which offers standards for
reporting and inspecting fishing activities of
foreign-flagged fishing vessels at port.
(8) PRIORITY FLAG STATE.—The term ‘‘pri-
ority flag state’’ means a country selected in
accordance with section 3552(b)(3)—
(A) whereby the flagged vessels of which
actively engage in, knowingly profit from, or
are complicit in IUU fishing; and
(B) that is willing, but lacks the capacity,
to monitor or take effective enforcement ac-
tion against its fleet.
(9) PRIORITY REGION.—The term ‘‘priority
region’’ means a region selected in accord-
ance with section 3552(b)(2)—
(A) that is at high risk for IUU fishing ac-
tivity or the entry of illegally caught sea-
food into the markets of countries in the re-
gion; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3675
June 18, 2019
(B) in which countries lack the capacity to
fully address the illegal activity described in
subparagraph (A).
(10) REGIONAL FISHERIES MANAGEMENT OR-
GANIZATION.—The term ‘‘Regional Fisheries
Management Organization’’ means an inter-
governmental fisheries organization or ar-
rangement, as appropriate, that has the com-
petence to establish conservation and man-
agement measures.
(11) SEAFOOD.—The term ‘‘seafood’’—
(A) means marine finfish, mollusks, crus-
taceans, and all other forms of marine ani-
mal and plant life, including those grown,
produced, or reared through marine aqua-
culture operations or techniques; and
(B) does not include marine mammals, tur-
tles, or birds.
(12) TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED ILLEGAL AC-
TIVITY.—The term ‘‘transnational organized
illegal activity’’ means criminal activity
conducted by self-perpetuating associations
of individuals who operate transnationally
for the purpose of obtaining power, influ-
ence, or monetary or commercial gains,
wholly or in part by illegal means, while pro-
tecting their activities through a pattern of
corruption or violence or through a
transnational organizational structure and
the exploitation of transnational commerce
or communication mechanisms.
(13) TRANSSHIPMENT.—The term ‘‘trans-
shipment’’ means the use of refrigerated ves-
sels that—
(A) collect catch from multiple fishing
boats;
(B) carry the accumulated catches back to
port; and
(C) deliver supplies to fishing boats, which
allows fishing vessels to remain at sea for ex-
tended periods without coming into port.
SEC. 3533. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this subtitle are—
(1) to support a whole-of-government ap-
proach across the Federal Government to
counter IUU fishing and related threats to
maritime security;
(2) to improve data sharing that enhances
surveillance, enforcement, and prosecution
against IUU fishing and related activities at
a global level;
(3) to support coordination and collabora-
tion to counter IUU fishing within priority
regions;
(4) to increase and improve global trans-
parency and traceability across the seafood
supply chain as—
(A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
(B) a tool for strengthening fisheries man-
agement and food security;
(5) to improve global enforcement oper-
ations against IUU fishing through a whole-
of-government approach by the United
States; and
(6) to prevent the use of IUU fishing as a fi-
nancing source for transnational organized
groups that undermine United States and
global security interests.
SEC. 3534. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United Statesl
(1) to take action to curtail the global
trade in seafood and seafood products derived
from IUU fishing, including its links to
forced labor and transnational organized il-
legal activity;
(2) to develop holistic diplomatic, military,
law enforcement, economic, and capacity-
building tools to counter IUU fishing;
(3) to provide technical assistance to coun-
tries in priority regions and priority flag
states to combat IUU fishing, including as-
sistance—
(A) to increase local, national, and re-
gional level capacities to counter IUU fish-
ing through the engagement of law enforce-
ment and security forces;
(B) to enhance port capacity and security,
including by supporting other countries in
working toward the adoption and implemen-
tation of the Port State Measures Agree-
ment;
(C) to combat corruption and increase
transparency and traceability in fisheries
management and trade;
(D) to enhance information sharing within
and across governments and multilateral or-
ganizations through the development and
use of agreed standards for information shar-
ing; and
(E) to support effective, science-based fish-
eries management regimes that promote
legal and safe fisheries and act as a deterrent
to IUU fishing;
(4) to promote global maritime security
through improved capacity and techno-
logical assistance to support improved mari-
time domain awareness;
(5) to engage with priority flag states to
encourage the use of high quality vessel
tracking technologies where existing en-
forcement tools are lacking;
(6) to engage with multilateral organiza-
tions working on fisheries issues, including
Regional Fisheries Management Organiza-
tions and the Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation of the United Nations, to combat and
deter IUU fishing;
(7) to advance information sharing across
governments and multilateral organizations
in areas that cross multiple jurisdictions,
through the development and use of an
agreed standard for information sharing;
(8) to continue to use existing and future
trade agreements to combat IUU fishing;
(9) to employ appropriate assets and re-
sources of the United States Government in
a coordinated manner to disrupt the illicit
networks involved in IUU fishing;
(10) to continue to declassify and make
available, as appropriate and practicable,
technologies developed by the United States
Government that can be used to help counter
IUU fishing;
(11) to recognize the ties of IUU fishing to
transnational organized illegal activity, in-
cluding human trafficking and illegal trade
in narcotics and arms, and as applicable, to
focus on illicit activity in a coordinated,
cross-cutting manner;
(12) to recognize and respond to poor work-
ing conditions, labor abuses, and other vio-
lent crimes in the fishing industry;
(13) to increase and improve global trans-
parency and traceability along the seafood
supply chain as—
(A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
(B) an approach for strengthening fisheries
management and food security; and
(14) to promote technological investment
and innovation to combat IUU fishing.
PART I—PROGRAMS TO COMBAT IUU
FISHING AND INCREASE MARITIME SE-
CURITY
SEC. 3541. COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS.
The Secretary of State, in conjunction
with the Secretary of Commerce, shall co-
ordinate with Regional Fisheries Manage-
ment Organizations and the Food and Agri-
culture Organization of the United Nations,
and may coordinate with other relevant
international governmental or nongovern-
mental organizations, or the private sector,
as appropriate, to enhance regional re-
sponses to IUU fishing and related
transnational organized illegal activities.
SEC. 3542. ENGAGEMENT OF DIPLOMATIC MIS-
SIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this title, each chief of mission
(as defined in section 102 of the Foreign Serv-
ice Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3902)) to a relevant
country in a priority region or to a priority
flag state may, if the Secretary of State de-
termines such action is appropriate—
(1) convene a working group, led by De-
partment of State officials, to examine IUU
fishing, which may include stakeholders
such as—
(A) United States officials from relevant
agencies participating in the interagency
Working Group identified in section 3551, for-
eign officials, nongovernmental organiza-
tions, the private sector, and representatives
of local fishermen in the region; and
(B) experts on IUU fishing, law enforce-
ment, criminal justice, transnational orga-
nized illegal activity, defense, intelligence,
vessel movement monitoring, and inter-
national development operating in or with
knowledge of the region; and
(2) designate a counter-IUU Fishing Coor-
dinator from among existing personnel at
the mission if the chief of mission deter-
mines such action is appropriate.
SEC. 3543. ASSISTANCE BY FEDERAL AGENCIES
TO IMPROVE LAW ENFORCEMENT
WITHIN PRIORITY REGIONS AND
PRIORITY FLAG STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in collaboration with the Secretary of Com-
merce and the Commandant of the Coast
Guard when the Coast Guard is operating in,
or as a component of, the Department of
Homeland Security, shall provide assistance,
as appropriate, in accordance with this sec-
tion.
(b) LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING AND CO-
ORDINATION ACTIVITIES.—The officials re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate op-
portunities to provide assistance, as appro-
priate, to countries in priority regions and
priority flag states to improve the effective-
ness of IUU fishing enforcement, with clear
and measurable targets and indicators of
success, including—
(1) by assessing and using existing re-
sources, enforcement tools, and legal au-
thorities to coordinate efforts to combat IUU
fishing with efforts to combat other illegal
trade, including weapons, drugs, and human
trafficking;
(2) by expanding existing IUU fishing en-
forcement training;
(3) by providing targeted, country- and re-
gion-specific training on combating IUU
fishing, including in those countries that
have not adopted the Port State Measures
Agreement;
(4) by supporting increased effectiveness
and transparency of the fisheries enforce-
ment sectors of the governments of such
countries; and
(5) by supporting increased outreach to
stakeholders in the affected communities as
key partners in combating and prosecuting
IUU fishing.
(c) PORT SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—The offi-
cials referred to in subsection (a) shall evalu-
ate opportunities to provide assistance, as
appropriate, to countries in priority regions
and priority flag states to help those states
implement programs related to port security
and capacity for the purposes of preventing
IUU fishing products from entering the glob-
al seafood market, including by supporting
other countries in working toward the adop-
tion and implementation of the Port State
Measures Agreement.
(d) CAPACITY BUILDING FOR INVESTIGATIONS
AND PROSECUTIONS.—The officials referred to
in subsection (a), in collaboration with the
governments of countries in priority regions
and of priority flag states, shall evaluate op-
portunities to assist those countries in de-
signing and implementing programs in such
countries, as appropriate, to increase the ca-
pacity of IUU fishing enforcement and cus-
toms and border security officers to improve
their ability—
(1) to conduct effective investigations, in-
cluding using law enforcement techniques
such as undercover investigations and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3676 June 18, 2019
development of informer networks and ac-
tionable intelligence;
(2) to conduct vessel boardings and inspec-
tions at sea and associated enforcement ac-
tions;
(3) to exercise existing shiprider agree-
ments and to enter into and implement new
shiprider agreements, as appropriate, includ-
ing in those countries that have not adopted
the Port State Measures Agreement;
(4) to conduct vessel inspections at port
and associated enforcement actions;
(5) to assess technology needs and promote
the use of technology to improve moni-
toring, enforcement, and prosecution of IUU
fishing;
(6) to conduct DNA-based and forensic
identification of seafood used in trade;
(7) to conduct training on techniques, such
as collecting electronic evidence and using
computer forensics, for law enforcement per-
sonnel involved in complex investigations re-
lated to international matters, financial
issues, and government corruption that in-
clude IUU fishing;
(8) to assess financial flows and the use of
financial institutions to launder profits re-
lated to IUU fishing;
(9) to conduct training on the legal mecha-
nisms that can be used to prosecute those
identified in the investigations as alleged
perpetrators of IUU fishing and other associ-
ated crimes such as trafficking and forced
labor; and
(10) to conduct training to raise awareness
of the use of whistleblower information and
ways to incentivize whistleblowers to come
forward with original information related to
IUU fishing.
(e) CAPACITY BUILDING FOR INFORMATION
SHARING.—The officials referred to in sub-
section (a) shall evaluate opportunities to
provide assistance, as appropriate, to key
countries in priority regions and priority
flag states in the form of training, equip-
ment, and systems development to build ca-
pacity for information sharing related to
maritime enforcement and port security.
(f) COORDINATION WITH OTHER RELEVANT
AGENCIES.—The Secretary of State, in col-
laboration with the Commandant of the
Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is oper-
ating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, and the Sec-
retary of Commerce, shall coordinate with
other relevant agencies, as appropriate, in
accordance with this section.
SEC. 3544. EXPANSION OF EXISTING MECHA-
NISMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING.
The Secretary of State, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is op-
erating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the At-
torney General, and the heads of other ap-
propriate Federal agencies shall assess op-
portunities to combat IUU fishing by ex-
panding, as appropriate, the use of the fol-
lowing mechanisms:
(1) Including counter-IUU fishing in exist-
ing shiprider agreements in which the United
States is a party.
(2) Entering into shiprider agreements that
include counter-IUU fishing with priority
flag states and countries in priority regions
with which the United States does not al-
ready have such an agreement.
(3) Including counter-IUU fishing as part of
the mission of the Combined Maritime
Forces.
(4) Including counter-IUU fishing exercises
in the annual at-sea exercises conducted by
the Department of Defense, in coordination
with the United States Coast Guard.
(5) Creating partnerships similar to the
Oceania Maritime Security Initiative and
the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement Part-
nership in other priority regions.
SEC. 3545. IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPARENCY
AND TRACEABILITY PROGRAMS.
The Secretary of State, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is op-
erating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the Secretary of
Commerce, and the heads of other Federal
agencies, if merited, shall work, as appro-
priate, with priority flag states and key
countries in priority regions—
(1) to increase knowledge within such
countries about the United States trans-
parency and traceability standards for im-
ports of seafood and seafood products;
(2) to improve the capacity of seafood in-
dustries within such countries through infor-
mation sharing and training to meet the re-
quirements of transparency and traceability
standards for seafood and seafood product
imports, including catch documentation and
trade tracking programs adopted by relevant
regional fisheries management organiza-
tions;
(3) to improve the capacities of govern-
ment, industry, and civil society groups to
develop and implement comprehensive
traceability systems that—
(A) deter IUU fishing;
(B) strengthen fisheries management; and
(C) enhance maritime domain awareness;
and
(4) to support the implementation of sea-
food traceability standards in such countries
to prevent IUU fishing products from enter-
ing the global seafood market and assess ca-
pacity and training needs in those countries.
SEC. 3546. TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.
The Secretary of State, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is op-
erating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, and the
heads of other Federal agencies, as appro-
priate, shall pursue programs to expand the
role of technology for combating IUU fish-
ing, including by—
(1) promoting the use of technology to
combat IUU fishing;
(2) assessing the technology needs, includ-
ing vessel tracking technologies and data
sharing, in priority regions and priority flag
states;
(3) engaging with priority flag states to en-
courage the mandated use of vessel tracking
technologies, including vessel monitoring
systems, AIS, or other vessel movement
monitoring technologies on fishing vessels
and transshipment vessels at all times, as
appropriate, while at sea as a means to iden-
tify IUU fishing activities and the shipment
of illegally caught fish products; and
(4) building partnerships with the private
sector, including universities, nonprofit re-
search organizations, the seafood industry,
and the technology, transportation and lo-
gistics sectors, to leverage new and existing
technologies and data analytics to address
IUU fishing.
SEC. 3547. SAVINGS CLAUSE.
No provision of section 3532 or of this part
shall impose, or be interpreted to impose,
any duty, responsibility, requirement, or ob-
ligation on the Department of Defense, the
Department of the Navy, or any official or
component of either.
PART II—ESTABLISHMENT OF INTER-
AGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISH-
ING
SEC. 3551. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON
IUU FISHING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established a
collaborative interagency working group on
maritime security and IUU fishing (referred
to in this subtitle as the ‘‘Working Group’’).
(b) MEMBERS.—The members of the Work-
ing Group shall be composed of—
(1) 1 chair, who shall rotate between the
Coast Guard, the Department of State, and
the National Oceanographic and Atmos-
pheric Administration on a 3-year term;
(2) 2 deputy chairs, who shall be appointed
by their respective agency heads and shall be
from a different Department than that of the
chair, from—
(A) the Coast Guard;
(B) the Department of State; and
(C) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration;
(3) 11 members, who shall be appointed by
their respective agency heads, from—
(A) the Department of Defense;
(B) the United States Navy;
(C) the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development;
(D) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service;
(E) the Department of Justice;
(F) the Department of the Treasury;
(G) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
(H) U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement;
(I) the Federal Trade Commission;
(J) the Department of Agriculture;
(K) the Food and Drug Administration; and
(L) the Department of Labor;
(4) 5 members, who shall be appointed by
the President, from—
(A) the National Security Council;
(B) the Council on Environmental Quality;
(C) the Office of Management and Budget;
(D) the Office of Science and Technology
Policy; and
(E) the Office of the United States Trade
Representative.
(c) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Working Group
shall ensure an integrated, Federal Govern-
ment-wide response to IUU fishing globally,
including by—
(1) improving the coordination of Federal
agencies to identify, interdict, investigate,
prosecute, and dismantle IUU fishing oper-
ations and organizations perpetrating and
knowingly benefitting from IUU fishing;
(2) assessing areas for increased inter-
agency information sharing on matters re-
lated to IUU fishing and related crimes;
(3) establishing standards for information
sharing related to maritime enforcement;
(4) developing a strategy to determine how
military assets and intelligence can con-
tribute to enforcement strategies to combat
IUU fishing;
(5) increasing maritime domain awareness
relating to IUU fishing and related crimes
and developing a strategy to leverage aware-
ness for enhanced enforcement and prosecu-
tion actions against IUU fishing;
(6) supporting the adoption and implemen-
tation of the Port State Measures Agree-
ment in relevant countries and assessing the
capacity and training needs in such coun-
tries;
(7) outlining a strategy to coordinate, in-
crease, and use shiprider agreements be-
tween the Department of Defense or the
Coast Guard and relevant countries;
(8) enhancing cooperation with partner
governments to combat IUU fishing;
(9) identifying opportunities for increased
information sharing between Federal agen-
cies and partner governments working to
combat IUU fishing;
(10) consulting and coordinating with the
seafood industry and nongovernmental
stakeholders that work to combat IUU fish-
ing;
(11) supporting the work of collaborative
international initiatives to make available
certified data from state authorities about
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3677
June 18, 2019
vessel and vessel-related activities related to
IUU fishing;
(12) supporting the identification and cer-
tification procedures to address IUU fishing
in accordance with the High Seas Driftnet
Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16
U.S.C. 1826d et seq.); and
(13) publishing annual reports summarizing
nonsensitive information about the Working
Group’s efforts to investigate, enforce, and
prosecute groups and individuals engaging in
IUU fishing.
SEC. 3552. STRATEGIC PLAN.
(a) STRATEGIC PLAN.—Not later than 2
years after the date of the enactment of this
title, the Working Group, after consultation
with the relevant stakeholders, shall submit
to Congress a 5-year integrated strategic
plan on combating IUU fishing and enhanc-
ing maritime security, including specific
strategies with monitoring benchmarks for
addressing IUU fishing in priority regions.
(b) IDENTIFICATION OF PRIORITY REGIONS
AND PRIORITY FLAG STATES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The strategic plan sub-
mitted under subsection (a) shall identify
priority regions and priority flag states to be
the focus of assistance coordinated by the
Working Group under section 3551.
(2) PRIORITY REGION SELECTION CRITERIA.—
In selecting priority regions under paragraph
(1), the Working Group shall select regions
that—
(A) are at high risk for IUU fishing activ-
ity or the entry of illegally caught seafood
into their markets; and
(B) lack the capacity to fully address the
issues described in subparagraph (A).
(3) PRIORITY FLAG STATES SELECTION CRI-
TERIA.—In selecting priority flag states
under paragraph (1), the Working Group
shall select countries—
(A) the flagged vessels of which actively
engage in, knowingly profit from, or are
complicit in IUU fishing; and
(B) that lack the capacity to police their
fleet.
SEC. 3553. REPORTS.
Not later than 5 years after the submission
of the 5-year integrated strategic plan under
section 3552, and 5 years after, the Working
Group shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation of the Senate, the Committee on For-
eign Relations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the
Select Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutri-
tion, and Forestry of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives, the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives, and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives that contains—
(1) a summary of global and regional
trends in IUU fishing;
(2) an assessment of the extent of the con-
vergence between transnational organized il-
legal activity, including human trafficking
and forced labor, and IUU fishing;
(3) an assessment of the topics, data
sources, and strategies that would benefit
from increased information sharing and rec-
ommendations regarding harmonization of
data collection and sharing;
(4) an assessment of assets, including mili-
tary assets and intelligence, which can be
used for either enforcement operations or
strategies to combat IUU fishing;
(5) summaries of the situational threats
with respect to IUU fishing in priority re-
gions and an assessment of the capacity of
countries within such regions to respond to
those threats;
(6) an assessment of the progress of coun-
tries in priority regions in responding to
those threats as a result of assistance by the
United States pursuant to the strategic plan
developed under section 3552, including—
(A) the identification of—
(i) relevant supply routes, ports of call,
methods of landing and entering illegally
caught product into legal supply chains, and
financial institutions used in each country
by participants engaging in IUU fishing; and
(ii) indicators of IUU fishing that are re-
lated to money laundering;
(B) an assessment of the adherence to, or
progress toward adoption of, international
treaties related to IUU fishing, including the
Port State Measures Agreement, by coun-
tries in priority regions;
(C) an assessment of the implementation
by countries in priority regions of seafood
traceability or capacity to apply traceability
to verify the legality of catch and strengthen
fisheries management;
(D) an assessment of the capacity of coun-
tries in priority regions to implement
shiprider agreements;
(E) an assessment of the capacity of coun-
tries in priority regions to increase mari-
time domain awareness; and
(F) an assessment of the capacity of gov-
ernments of relevant countries in priority
regions to sustain the programs for which
the United States has provided assistance
under this subtitle;
(7) an assessment of the capacity of pri-
ority flag states to track the movement of
and police their fleet, prevent their flagged
vessels from engaging in IUU fishing, and en-
force applicable laws and regulations; and
(8) an assessment of the extent of involve-
ment in IUU fishing of organizations des-
ignated as foreign terrorist organizations
under section 219 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
SEC. 3554. GULF OF MEXICO IUU FISHING SUB-
WORKING GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this title,
the Administrator of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, in coordi-
nation with the Coast Guard and the Depart-
ment of State, shall establish a subworking
group to address IUU fishing in the exclusive
economic zone of the United States in the
Gulf of Mexico.
(b) FUNCTIONS.—The subworking group es-
tablished under subsection (a) shall iden-
tify—
(1) Federal actions taken and policies es-
tablished during the 5-year period imme-
diately preceding the date of the enactment
of this title with respect to IUU fishing in
the exclusive economic zone of the United
States in the Gulf of Mexico, including such
actions and policies related to—
(A) the surveillance, interdiction, and pros-
ecution of any foreign nationals engaged in
such fishing; and
(B) the application of the provisions of the
High Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Pro-
tection Act (16 U.S.C. 1826d et seq.) to any
relevant nation, including the status of any
past or ongoing consultations and certifi-
cation procedures;
(2) actions and policies, in addition to the
actions and policies described in paragraph
(1), each of the Federal agencies described in
subsection (a) can take, using existing re-
sources, to combat IUU fishing in the exclu-
sive economic zone of the United States in
the Gulf of Mexico; and
(3) any additional authorities that could
assist each such agency in more effectively
addressing such IUU fishing.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the IUU Fishing Subworking Group is estab-
lished under subsection (a), the group shall
submit a report to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House of Representatives that
contains—
(1) the findings identified pursuant to sub-
section (b); and
(2) a timeline for each of the Federal agen-
cies described in subsection (a) to implement
each action or policy identified pursuant to
subsection (b)(2).
PART III—COMBATING HUMAN TRAF-
FICKING IN CONNECTION WITH THE
CATCHING AND PROCESSING OF SEA-
FOOD PRODUCTS
SEC. 3561. FINDING.
Congress finds that human trafficking is a
pervasive problem in the catching and proc-
essing of certain seafood products imported
into the United States, particularly seafood
products obtained through illegal, unre-
ported, and unregulated fishing.
SEC. 3562. ADDING THE SECRETARY OF COM-
MERCE TO THE INTERAGENCY TASK
FORCE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT
TRAFFICKING.
Section 105(b) of the Victims of Trafficking
and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (22
U.S.C. 7103(b)) is amended by inserting ‘‘the
Secretary of Commerce,’’ after ‘‘the Sec-
retary of Education,’’.
SEC. 3563. HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN THE SEA-
FOOD SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this title,
the Administrator of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration shall sub-
mit a report to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate, the Committee on Foreign Relations
of the Senate, the Committee on Appropria-
tions of the Senate, the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources of the House of Representa-
tives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives that describes the existence
of human trafficking in the supply chains of
seafood products imported into the United
States.
(b) REPORT ELEMENTS.—The report re-
quired under subsection (a) shall include—
(1) a list of the countries at risk for human
trafficking in their seafood catching and
processing industries, and an assessment of
such risk for each listed country;
(2) a description of the quantity and eco-
nomic value of seafood products imported
into the United States from the countries on
the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1);
(3) a description and assessment of the
methods, if any, in the countries on the list
compiled pursuant to paragraph (1) to trace
and account for the manner in which seafood
is caught;
(4) a description of domestic and inter-
national enforcement mechanisms to deter
illegal practices in the catching of seafood in
the countries on the list compiled pursuant
to paragraph (1); and
(5) such recommendations as the Adminis-
trator and the Commissioner jointly con-
sider appropriate for legislative or adminis-
trative action to enhance and improve ac-
tions against human trafficking in the
catching and processing of seafood products
outside of United States waters.
PART IV—AUTHORIZATION OF
APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 3571. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) FUNDING.—Amounts made available to
carry out this subtitle shall be derived from
amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available to the relevant agencies and de-
partments.
(b) NO INCREASE IN CONTRIBUTIONS.—Noth-
ing in this subtitle shall be construed to au-
thorize an increase in required or voluntary
contributions paid by the United States to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3678 June 18, 2019
any multilateral or international organiza-
tion.
SEC. 3572. ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS.
By not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this title, the head of each Fed-
eral agency receiving or allocating funds to
carry out activities under this subtitle shall,
to the greatest extent practicable, prepare
and submit to Congress a report that pro-
vides an accounting of all funds made avail-
able under this subtitle to the Federal agen-
cy.
SA 650. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle F of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 12 ll. REPORT ON MILITARY ACTIVITIES
OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
IN THE ARCTIC REGION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense, in consultation with the Secretary
of State and the Director of National Intel-
ligence, shall submit to appropriate commit-
tees of Congress the following:
(1) A report on the military activities of
the Russian Federation in the Arctic region.
(2) A report on the military activities or
the People’s Republic of China in the Arctic
region.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The reports
under subsection (a) shall include, with re-
spect to the Russian Federation or the Peo-
ples Republic of China, as applicable, the fol-
lowing:
(1) A description of military activities of
such country in the Arctic region, includ-
ing—
(A) the emplacement of military infra-
structure, equipment, or forces; and
(B) any exercises or other military activi-
ties
(C) activities that are non-military in na-
ture but are judged to have military implica-
tions.
(2) An assessment of—
(A) the intentions of such activities:
(B) the extent to which such activities af-
fect or threaten the interests of the United
States and allies in the Arctic region: and
(C) any response to such activities by the
United States or allies.
(3) A description of future plans and re-
quirements with respect to such activities.
(c) FORM.—Each report under subsection
(a) shall be submitted in classified form, but
may include an unclassified executive sum-
mary.
(d) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—ln this section the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress means—
(1) the congressional defense committees:
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate:
(3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence of the House of Representatives.
SA 651. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1045. REPEAL OF SUNSET OF LIMITATION
ON MINIMUM ANNUAL PURCHASE
AMOUNT FOR CHARTER CARRIERS
PARTICIPATING IN THE CIVIL RE-
SERVE AIR FLEET.
Section 9515 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended by striking subsection (k).
SA 652. Mr. BARRASSO (for himself,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. CRAMER, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. COONS, Mr. HOEVEN, and
Mr. MANCHIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. lll. UTILIZING SIGNIFICANT EMISSIONS
WITH INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Utilizing Significant Emissions
with Innovative Technologies Act’’ or the
‘‘USE IT Act’’.
(b) RESEARCH, INVESTIGATION, TRAINING,
AND OTHER ACTIVITIES.—Section 103 of the
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(3), in the first sentence
of the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by
striking ‘‘percursors’’ and inserting ‘‘precur-
sors’’; and
(2) in subsection (g)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1)
through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through
(D), respectively, and indenting appro-
priately;
(B) in the undesignated matter following
subparagraph (D) (as so redesignated)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Administrator’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(5) COORDINATION AND AVOIDANCE OF DUPLI-
CATION.—The Administrator’’; and
(ii) in the first sentence, by striking
‘‘Nothing’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(4) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing’’;
(C) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A) (as so redesignated)—
(i) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘Such
program’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(3) PROGRAM INCLUSIONS.—The program
under this subsection’’;
(ii) in the second sentence—
(I) by inserting ‘‘States, institutions of
higher education,’’ after ‘‘scientists,’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Such strategies and tech-
nologies shall be developed’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENT.—Such
strategies and technologies described in
paragraph (1) shall be developed’’; and
(iii) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘In
carrying out’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) CERTAIN CARBON DIOXIDE ACTIVITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out para-
graph (3)(A) with respect to carbon dioxide,
the Administrator shall carry out the activi-
ties described in each of subparagraphs (B),
(C), (D), and (E).
‘‘(B) DIRECT AIR CAPTURE RESEARCH.—
‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this subparagraph:
‘‘(I) BOARD.—The term ‘Board’ means the
Direct Air Capture Technology Advisory
Board established by clause (iii)(I).
‘‘(II) DILUTE.—The term ‘dilute’ means a
concentration of less than 1 percent by vol-
ume.
‘‘(III) DIRECT AIR CAPTURE.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘direct air
capture’, with respect to a facility, tech-
nology, or system, means that the facility,
technology, or system uses carbon capture
equipment to capture carbon dioxide directly
from the air.
‘‘(bb) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘direct air cap-
ture’ does not include any facility, tech-
nology, or system that captures carbon diox-
ide—
‘‘(AA) that is deliberately released from a
naturally occurring subsurface spring; or
‘‘(BB) using natural photosynthesis.
‘‘(IV) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.—The term
‘intellectual property’ means—
‘‘(aa) an invention that is patentable under
title 35, United States Code; and
‘‘(bb) any patent on an invention described
in item (aa).
‘‘(ii) TECHNOLOGY PRIZES.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of the USE IT
Act, the Administrator, in consultation with
the Secretary of Energy, shall establish a
program to provide, and shall provide, finan-
cial awards on a competitive basis for direct
air capture from media in which the con-
centration of carbon dioxide is dilute.
‘‘(II) DUTIES.—In carrying out this clause,
the Administrator shall—
‘‘(aa) subject to subclause (III), develop
specific requirements for—
‘‘(AA) the competition process; and
‘‘(BB) the demonstration of performance of
approved projects;
‘‘(bb) offer financial awards for a project
designed—
‘‘(AA) to the maximum extent practicable,
to capture more than 10,000 tons of carbon di-
oxide per year; and
‘‘(BB) to operate in a manner that would
be commercially viable in the foreseeable fu-
ture (as determined by the Board); and
‘‘(cc) to the maximum extent practicable,
make financial awards to geographically di-
verse projects, including at least—
‘‘(AA) 1 project in a coastal State; and
‘‘(BB) 1 project in a rural State.
‘‘(III) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.—In carrying
out subclause (II)(aa), the Administrator
shall—
‘‘(aa) provide notice of and, for a period of
not less than 60 days, an opportunity for pub-
lic comment on, any draft or proposed
version of the requirements described in sub-
clause (II)(aa); and
‘‘(bb) take into account public comments
received in developing the final version of
those requirements.
‘‘(iii) DIRECT AIR CAPTURE TECHNOLOGY AD-
VISORY BOARD.—
‘‘(I) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board to be known as the ‘Direct
Air Capture Technology Advisory Board’.
‘‘(II) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be
composed of 9 members appointed by the Ad-
ministrator, who shall provide expertise in—
‘‘(aa) climate science;
‘‘(bb) physics;
‘‘(cc) chemistry;
‘‘(dd) biology;
‘‘(ee) engineering;
‘‘(ff) economics;
‘‘(gg) business management; and
‘‘(hh) such other disciplines as the Admin-
istrator determines to be necessary to
achieve the purposes of this subparagraph.
‘‘(III) TERM; VACANCIES.—
‘‘(aa) TERM.—A member of the Board shall
serve for a term of 6 years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.049 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3679
June 18, 2019
‘‘(bb) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the
Board—
‘‘(AA) shall not affect the powers of the
Board; and
‘‘(BB) shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment was made.
‘‘(IV) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 30
days after the date on which all members of
the Board have been appointed, the Board
shall hold the initial meeting of the Board.
‘‘(V) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet at
the call of the Chairperson or on the request
of the Administrator.
‘‘(VI) QUORUM.—A majority of the members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but
a lesser number of members may hold hear-
ings.
‘‘(VII) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIR-
PERSON.—The Board shall select a Chair-
person and Vice Chairperson from among the
members of the Board.
‘‘(VIII) COMPENSATION.—Each member of
the Board may be compensated at not to ex-
ceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate
of basic pay in effect for a position at level
V of the Executive Schedule under section
5316 of title 5, United States Code, for each
day during which the member is engaged in
the actual performance of the duties of the
Board.
‘‘(IX) DUTIES.—The Board shall advise the
Administrator on carrying out the duties of
the Administrator under this subparagraph.
‘‘(X) FACA.—The Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the
Board.
‘‘(iv) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—As a condition of receiv-
ing a financial award under this subpara-
graph, an applicant shall agree to vest the
intellectual property of the applicant de-
rived from the technology in 1 or more enti-
ties that are incorporated in the United
States.
‘‘(II) RESERVATION OF LICENSE.—The United
States—
‘‘(aa) may reserve a nonexclusive, non-
transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license, to
have practiced for or on behalf of the United
States, in connection with any intellectual
property described in subclause (I); but
‘‘(bb) shall not, in the exercise of a license
reserved under item (aa), publicly disclose
proprietary information relating to the li-
cense.
‘‘(III) TRANSFER OF TITLE.—Title to any in-
tellectual property described in subclause (I)
shall not be transferred or passed, except to
an entity that is incorporated in the United
States, until the expiration of the first pat-
ent obtained in connection with the intellec-
tual property.
‘‘(v) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, $35,000,000 shall
be available to carry out this subparagraph,
to remain available until expended.
‘‘(II) REQUIREMENT.—Research carried out
using amounts made available under sub-
clause (I) may not duplicate research funded
by the Department of Energy.
‘‘(vi) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
subparagraph shall terminate not later than
10 years after the date of enactment of the
USE IT Act.
‘‘(C) CARBON DIOXIDE UTILIZATION RE-
SEARCH.—
‘‘(i) DEFINITION OF CARBON DIOXIDE UTILIZA-
TION.—In this subparagraph, the term ‘car-
bon dioxide utilization’ refers to tech-
nologies or approaches that lead to the use
of carbon dioxide—
‘‘(I) through the fixation of carbon dioxide
through photosynthesis or chemosynthesis,
such as through the growing of algae or bac-
teria;
‘‘(II) through the chemical conversion of
carbon dioxide to a material or chemical
compound in which the carbon dioxide is se-
curely stored; or
‘‘(III) through the use of carbon dioxide for
any other purpose for which a commercial
market exists, as determined by the Admin-
istrator.
‘‘(ii) PROGRAM.—The Administrator, in
consultation with the Secretary of Energy,
shall carry out a research and development
program for carbon dioxide utilization to
promote existing and new technologies that
transform carbon dioxide generated by in-
dustrial processes into a product of commer-
cial value, or as an input to products of com-
mercial value.
‘‘(iii) TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—Not later than 2 years after the date
of enactment of the USE IT Act, in carrying
out this subsection, the Administrator, in
consultation with the Secretary of Energy,
shall support research and infrastructure ac-
tivities relating to carbon dioxide utilization
by providing technical assistance and finan-
cial assistance in accordance with clause
(iv).
‘‘(iv) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible to receive
technical assistance and financial assistance
under clause (iii), a carbon dioxide utiliza-
tion project shall—
‘‘(I) have access to an emissions stream
generated by a stationary source within the
United States that is capable of supplying
not less than 250 metric tons per day of car-
bon dioxide for research;
‘‘(II) have access to adequate space for a
laboratory and equipment for testing small-
scale carbon dioxide utilization technologies,
with onsite access to larger test bays for
scale-up; and
‘‘(III) have existing partnerships with in-
stitutions of higher education, private com-
panies, States, or other government entities.
‘‘(v) COORDINATION.—In supporting carbon
dioxide utilization projects under this para-
graph, the Administrator shall consult with
the Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate,
with the head of any other relevant Federal
agency, States, the private sector, and insti-
tutions of higher education to develop meth-
ods and technologies to account for the car-
bon dioxide emissions avoided by the carbon
dioxide utilization projects.
‘‘(vi) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, $50,000,000 shall
be available to carry out this subparagraph,
to remain available until expended.
‘‘(II) REQUIREMENT.—Research carried out
using amounts made available under sub-
clause (I) may not duplicate research funded
by the Department of Energy.
‘‘(D) DEEP SALINE FORMATION REPORT.—
‘‘(i) DEFINITION OF DEEP SALINE FORMA-
TION.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—In this subparagraph, the
term ‘deep saline formation’ means a forma-
tion of subsurface geographically extensive
sedimentary rock layers saturated with
waters or brines that have a high total dis-
solved solids content and that are below the
depth where carbon dioxide can exist in the
formation as a supercritical fluid.
‘‘(II) CLARIFICATION.—In this subparagraph,
the term ‘deep saline formation’ does not in-
clude oil and gas reservoirs.
‘‘(ii) REPORT.—In consultation with the
Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate,
with the head of any other relevant Federal
agency and relevant stakeholders, not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
the USE IT Act, the Administrator shall pre-
pare, submit to Congress, and make publicly
available a report that includes—
‘‘(I) a comprehensive identification of po-
tential risks and benefits to project devel-
opers associated with increased storage of
carbon dioxide captured from stationary
sources in deep saline formations, using ex-
isting research;
‘‘(II) recommendations, if any, for man-
aging the potential risks identified under
subclause (I), including potential risks
unique to public land; and
‘‘(III) recommendations, if any, for Federal
legislation or other policy changes to miti-
gate any potential risks identified under sub-
clause (I).
‘‘(E) REPORT ON CARBON DIOXIDE NON-
REGULATORY STRATEGIES AND TECH-
NOLOGIES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 2 years, the Administrator shall
submit to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works of the Senate and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives a report that de-
scribes—
‘‘(I) the recipients of assistance under sub-
paragraphs (B) and (C); and
‘‘(II) a plan for supporting additional non-
regulatory strategies and technologies that
could significantly prevent carbon dioxide
emissions or reduce carbon dioxide levels in
the air, in conjunction with other Federal
agencies.
‘‘(ii) INCLUSIONS.—The plan submitted
under clause (i) shall include—
‘‘(I) a methodology for evaluating and
ranking technologies based on the ability of
the technologies to cost effectively reduce
carbon dioxide emissions or carbon dioxide
levels in the air; and
‘‘(II) a description of any nonair-related
environmental or energy considerations re-
garding the technologies.
‘‘(F) GAO REPORT.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall submit to
Congress a report that—
‘‘(i) identifies all Federal grant programs
in which a purpose of a grant under the pro-
gram is to perform research on carbon cap-
ture and utilization technologies, including
direct air capture technologies; and
‘‘(ii) examines the extent to which the Fed-
eral grant programs identified pursuant to
clause (i) overlap or are duplicative.’’.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Administrator’’) shall submit to Congress a
report describing how funds appropriated to
the Administrator during the 5 most recent
fiscal years have been used to carry out sec-
tion 103 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403),
including a description of—
(1) the amount of funds used to carry out
specific provisions of that section; and
(2) the practices used by the Administrator
to differentiate funding used to carry out
that section, as compared to funding used to
carry out other provisions of law.
(d) INCLUSION OF CARBON CAPTURE INFRA-
STRUCTURE PROJECTS.—Section 41001(6) of the
FAST Act (42 U.S.C. 4370m(6)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
inserting ‘‘carbon capture,’’ after ‘‘manufac-
turing,’’;
(B) in clause (i)(III), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(C) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause
(iii); and
(D) by inserting after clause (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(ii) is covered by a programmatic plan or
environmental review developed for the pri-
mary purpose of facilitating development of
carbon dioxide pipelines; or’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) INCLUSION.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), construction of infrastructure for
carbon capture includes construction of—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.052 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3680 June 18, 2019
‘‘(i) any facility, technology, or system
that captures, utilizes, or sequesters carbon
dioxide emissions, including projects for di-
rect air capture (as defined in paragraph
(6)(B)(i) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air Act
(42 U.S.C. 7403(g)); and
‘‘(ii) carbon dioxide pipelines.’’.
(e) DEVELOPMENT OF CARBON CAPTURE, UTI-
LIZATION, AND SEQUESTRATION REPORT, PER-
MITTING GUIDANCE, AND REGIONAL PERMIT-
TING TASK FORCE.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) CARBON CAPTURE, UTILIZATION, AND SE-
QUESTRATION PROJECTS.—The term ‘‘carbon
capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects’’ includes projects for direct air cap-
ture (as defined in paragraph (6)(B)(i) of sec-
tion 103(g) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
7403(g))).
(B) EFFICIENT, ORDERLY, AND RESPON-
SIBLE.—The term ‘‘efficient, orderly, and re-
sponsible’’ means, with respect to develop-
ment or the permitting process for carbon
capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, a proc-
ess that is completed in an expeditious man-
ner while maintaining environmental,
health, and safety protections.
(2) REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Chair of the Council on Environmental Qual-
ity (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Chair’’), in consultation with the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Sec-
retary of the Interior, the Executive Direc-
tor of the Federal Permitting Improvement
Council, and the head of any other relevant
Federal agency (as determined by the Presi-
dent), shall prepare a report that—
(i) compiles all existing relevant Federal
permitting and review information and re-
sources for project applicants, agencies, and
other stakeholders interested in the deploy-
ment of carbon capture, utilization, and se-
questration projects and carbon dioxide pipe-
lines, including—
(I) the appropriate points of interaction
with Federal agencies;
(II) clarification of the permitting respon-
sibilities and authorities among Federal
agencies; and
(III) best practices and templates for per-
mitting;
(ii) inventories current or emerging activi-
ties that transform captured carbon dioxide
into a product of commercial value, or as an
input to products of commercial value;
(iii) inventories existing initiatives and re-
cent publications that analyze or identify
priority carbon dioxide pipelines needed to
enable efficient, orderly, and responsible de-
velopment of carbon capture, utilization, and
sequestration projects at increased scale;
(iv) identifies gaps in the current Federal
regulatory framework for the deployment of
carbon capture, utilization, and sequestra-
tion projects and carbon dioxide pipelines;
and
(v) identifies Federal financing mecha-
nisms available to project developers.
(B) SUBMISSION; PUBLICATION.—The Chair
shall—
(i) submit the report under subparagraph
(A) to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives; and
(ii) as soon as practicable, make the report
publicly available.
(3) GUIDANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—After submission of the
report under paragraph (2)(B), but not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Chair shall submit guidance
consistent with that report to all relevant
Federal agencies that—
(i) facilitates reviews associated with the
deployment of carbon capture, utilization,
and sequestration projects and carbon diox-
ide pipelines; and
(ii) supports the efficient, orderly, and re-
sponsible development of carbon capture,
utilization, and sequestration projects and
carbon dioxide pipelines.
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The guidance under sub-
paragraph (A) shall address requirements
under—
(I) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(II) the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
(III) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et
seq.);
(IV) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
300f et seq.);
(V) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
(VI) division A of subtitle III of title 54,
United States Code (formerly known as the
‘‘National Historic Preservation Act’’);
(VII) the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16
U.S.C. 703 et seq.);
(VIII) the Act of June 8, 1940 (16 U.S.C. 668
et seq.) (commonly known as the ‘‘Bald and
Golden Eagle Protection Act’’); and
(IX) any other Federal law that the Chair
determines to be appropriate.
(ii) ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS.—The guid-
ance under subparagraph (A) shall include di-
rection to States and other interested par-
ties for the development of programmatic
environmental reviews under the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C.
4321 et seq.) for carbon capture, utilization,
and sequestration projects and carbon diox-
ide pipelines.
(iii) PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.—The guidance
under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to
the public notice, comment, and solicitation
of information procedures under section
1506.6 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations
(or a successor regulation).
(C) SUBMISSION; PUBLICATION.—The Chair
shall—
(i) submit the guidance under subpara-
graph (A) to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works of the Senate and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives; and
(ii) as soon as practicable, make the guid-
ance publicly available.
(D) EVALUATION.—The Chair shall—
(i) periodically evaluate the reports of the
task forces under paragraph (4)(E) and, as
necessary, revise the guidance under sub-
paragraph (A); and
(ii) each year, submit to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives, and
relevant Federal agencies a report that de-
scribes any recommendations for legislation,
rules, revisions to rules, or other policies
that would address the issues identified by
the task forces under paragraph (4)(E).
(4) TASK FORCE.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Chair shall establish not less than 2
task forces, which shall each cover a dif-
ferent geographical area with differing de-
mographic, land use, or geological issues—
(i) to identify permitting and other chal-
lenges and successes that permitting au-
thorities and project developers and opera-
tors face; and
(ii) to improve the performance of the per-
mitting process and regional coordination
for the purpose of promoting the efficient,
orderly, and responsible development of car-
bon capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
(B) MEMBERS AND SELECTION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Chair shall—
(I) develop criteria for the selection of
members to each task force; and
(II) select members for each task force in
accordance with subclause (I) and clause (ii).
(ii) MEMBERS.—Each task force—
(I) shall include not less than 1 representa-
tive of each of—
(aa) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(bb) the Department of Energy;
(cc) the Department of the Interior;
(dd) any other Federal agency the Chair
determines to be appropriate;
(ee) any State that requests participation
in the geographical area covered by the task
force;
(ff) developers or operators of carbon cap-
ture, utilization, and sequestration projects
or carbon dioxide pipelines; and
(gg) nongovernmental membership organi-
zations, the primary mission of which con-
cerns protection of the environment; and
(II) at the request of a Tribal or local gov-
ernment, may include a representative of—
(aa) not less than 1 local government in
the geographical area covered by the task
force; and
(bb) not less than 1 Tribal government in
the geographical area covered by the task
force.
(C) MEETINGS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Each task force shall meet
not less than twice each year.
(ii) JOINT MEETING.—To the maximum ex-
tent practicable, the task forces shall meet
collectively not less than once each year.
(D) DUTIES.—Each task force shall—
(i) inventory existing or potential Federal
and State approaches to facilitate reviews
associated with the deployment of carbon
capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, includ-
ing best practices that—
(I) avoid duplicative reviews;
(II) engage stakeholders early in the per-
mitting process; and
(III) make the permitting process efficient,
orderly, and responsible;
(ii) develop common models for State-level
carbon dioxide pipeline regulation and over-
sight guidelines that can be shared with
States in the geographical area covered by
the task force;
(iii) provide technical assistance to States
in the geographical area covered by the task
force in implementing regulatory require-
ments and any models developed under
clause (ii);
(iv) inventory current or emerging activi-
ties that transform captured carbon dioxide
into a product of commercial value, or as an
input to products of commercial value;
(v) identify any priority carbon dioxide
pipelines needed to enable efficient, orderly,
and responsible development of carbon cap-
ture, utilization, and sequestration projects
at increased scale;
(vi) identify gaps in the current Federal
and State regulatory framework and in ex-
isting data for the deployment of carbon cap-
ture, utilization, and sequestration projects
and carbon dioxide pipelines;
(vii) identify Federal and State financing
mechanisms available to project developers;
and
(viii) develop recommendations for rel-
evant Federal agencies on how to develop
and research technologies that—
(I) can capture carbon dioxide; and
(II) would be able to be deployed within the
region covered by the task force, including
any projects that have received technical or
financial assistance for research under para-
graph (6) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air
Act (42 U.S.C. 7403(g)).
(E) REPORT.—Each year, each task force
shall prepare and submit to the Chair and to
the other task forces a report that includes—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.052 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3681
June 18, 2019
(i) any recommendations for improvements
in efficient, orderly, and responsible issuance
or administration of Federal permits and
other Federal authorizations required under
a law described in paragraph (3)(B)(i); and
(ii) any other nationally relevant informa-
tion that the task force has collected in car-
rying out the duties under subparagraph (D).
(F) EVALUATION.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Chair shall—
(i) reevaluate the need for the task forces;
and
(ii) submit to Congress a recommendation
as to whether the task forces should con-
tinue.
SA 653. Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. DAINES, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title X, insert
the following:
SEC. ll. PLAN FOR STRENGTHENING THE SUP-
PLY CHAIN INTELLIGENCE FUNC-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of the National Counterintel-
ligence and Security Center, in coordination
with the Director of the Defense Counter-
intelligence and Security Agency and other
interagency partners, shall submit to Con-
gress a plan for strengthening the supply
chain intelligence function.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The plan submitted under
subsection (a) shall address the following:
(1) The appropriate workforce model, in-
cluding size, mix, and seniority, from the
elements of the intelligence community and
other interagency partners.
(2) The budgetary resources necessary to
implement the plan.
(3) The appropriate governance structure
within the intelligence community and with
interagency partners.
(4) The authorities necessary to implement
the plan.
(c) DEFINITION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY.—In this section, the term ‘‘intelligence
community’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
SA 654. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and
Ms. ROSEN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title II, add the
following:
SEC. 243. FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY AND RE-
SEARCH PROTECTION POLICY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘covered applicant’’ means an
applicant for funding from a Federal agency
to carry out research under a covered pro-
gram;
(2) the term ‘‘covered program’’ means a
research program of a Federal agency for
which the Director determines compliance
with the Framework is required;
(3) the term ‘‘Director’’ means the Director
of the Office of Science and Technology Pol-
icy;
(4) the term ‘‘Federal agency’’ means an
Executive agency, as defined in section 105 of
title 5, United States Code;
(5) the term ‘‘Framework’’ means the
framework developed by the working group
under subsection (b)(3)(A);
(6) the term ‘‘institution of higher edu-
cation’’ has the meaning given the term in
section 101 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001); and
(7) the term ‘‘working group’’ means the
interagency working group established under
subsection (b).
(b) INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP FOR CO-
ORDINATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF FEDERAL
CYBERSECURITY AND RESEARCH PROTECTION
FRAMEWORK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director, acting
through the National Science and Tech-
nology Council and in coordination with the
National Security Advisor, shall establish an
interagency working group to—
(A) coordinate Federal science and tech-
nology agency and Federal intelligence and
security activities; and
(B) develop a Federal agency framework
for compliance and best practices, which
shall be aimed at enhancing cybersecurity
protocols and protecting federally funded re-
search and development activities from for-
eign interference, espionage, and
exfiltration.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The working group shall,
at a minimum, be composed of the following
members:
(A) The Director, who shall serve as chair
of the working group.
(B) A representative from the National
Science and Technology Council.
(C) Not more than 2 representatives from
each of the following entities:
(i) The Department of State.
(ii) The Department of the Treasury.
(iii) The Department of Defense.
(iv) The Department of Justice.
(v) The Department of Education.
(vi) The Department of Energy.
(vii) The Department of Agriculture.
(viii) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(ix) The National Institutes of Health.
(x) The National Science Foundation.
(xi) The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.
(xii) The National Institute of Standards
and Technology.
(xiii) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(xiv) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(xv) The Office of Management and Budget.
(xvi) The National Economic Council.
(xvii) The Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence.
(xviii) Such other Federal agencies as the
Director considers appropriate.
(3) RESPONSIBILITIES.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the working group shall—
(A) develop a framework for compliance
across Federal agencies to apply to applica-
tions submitted by covered applicants for
covered programs, which shall include—
(i) establishing a clear, unified cybersecu-
rity policy across Federal agencies for the
protection of Federal research from foreign
interference, while accounting for the impor-
tance of the open exchange of ideas and
international talent required for scientific
progress and leadership of the United States
in science and technology;
(ii) identifying how existing mechanisms
for control of science and technology can be
used to help protect federally funded re-
search and development from foreign inter-
ference, cyber attacks, espionage, intellec-
tual property theft, and other attempts by
foreign governments or representatives
thereof that attempt to compromise the in-
tegrity of the United States scientific and
technological enterprise;
(iii) recommending additional mechanisms
for control to help protect federally funded
research and development from foreign in-
terference, cyber attacks, espionage, and in-
tellectual property theft, including—
(I) disclosing foreign interests, invest-
ments, or involvement relating to Federal
research; and
(II) creating and providing to each Federal
agency a list, which shall not be made avail-
able to the public, of researchers found to be
knowingly fraudulent in disclosure and the
institution of higher education where the
fraudulence occurred; and
(iv) developing a clear, unified metric
across Federal agencies that covered appli-
cants will use to determine compliance with
the Framework for purposes of subsection
(c)(2); and
(B) coordinate activities to protect feder-
ally funded research and development from
foreign interference, cyber attacks, theft,
and espionage and develop common defini-
tions and best practices for Federal science
agencies, grantees, and covered applicants,
including by—
(i) developing common definitions and
aligning terms across Federal agencies, in-
cluding sensitive technologies, critical tech-
nologies, emerging technologies, genomic
data, and foundational technologies;
(ii) coordinating efforts among Federal
agencies to share important information,
suspicious foreign actors, specific examples
or attempts at foreign interference, cyber at-
tacks, theft, or espionage with key stake-
holders, including institutions of higher edu-
cation, federally funded research and devel-
opment centers, and nonprofit research insti-
tutions, to help them better understand and
defend against those threats;
(iii) identifying potential cyber threats
and vulnerabilities within the United States
scientific and technological enterprise and
working with Federal agencies and other
stakeholders to develop and implement
strategies and best practices to defend and
protect against potential cyber attacks that
may compromise research being conducted
on behalf of the Federal Government;
(iv) developing and periodically updating
unclassified policy guidance to assist Fed-
eral science agencies, institutions of higher
education, and grantees in defending against
threats to federally funded research and the
development and integrity of the United
States scientific enterprise that shall in-
clude—
(I) common definitions and terminology
for classification of research and tech-
nologies that are covered programs;
(II) identified areas of research or tech-
nology that may require additional controls;
and
(III) a classified addendum as necessary to
further inform Federal science agency deci-
sion-making; and
(v) determining how current Federal ef-
forts, as described in the memorandum
issued by the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy on February 22, 2013 entitled
‘‘Increasing Access to the Results of Feder-
ally Funded Scientific Research’’, can be ap-
propriately balanced with concerns about
the need to protect certain research data, in-
formation, and resulting technologies from
foreign actors seeking to utilize that infor-
mation for the express interest of advancing
their scientific, technological, economic, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.052 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3682 June 18, 2019
military interests and which are directly
counter to United States interests.
(4) ENGAGEMENT.—In developing the
Framework and the compliance metric de-
scribed in paragraph (3)(A)(iv), the working
group shall solicit and incorporate input
from representatives of institutions of high-
er education conducting federally funded re-
search and development, including—
(A) facility security officers;
(B) chief information officers;
(C) vice presidents for research;
(D) chief technology officers; and
(E) other relevant officers as determined
by the Director.
(5) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—The Direc-
tor shall—
(A) not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, report to Congress on
the progress of establishing the working
group; and
(B) not later than 270 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, report to Congress on
the activities of the working group, includ-
ing the progress of the working group in
meeting the responsibilities described in
paragraphs (3) and (4).
(c) APPLICATION OF AND COMPLIANCE WITH
FRAMEWORK.—
(1) APPLICATION.—The Framework shall
apply to—
(A) each grant by a Federal agency pro-
viding funds to be used to carry out research
under a covered program; and
(B) any researcher that applies for funds
under a covered program.
(2) COMPLIANCE.—Each covered applicant
shall disclose in the application for funding
for a covered program whether the applicant
is in compliance with the Framework.
(d) OSTP REPORT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date on which the Framework is de-
veloped under subsection (b)(3)(A), and bien-
nially thereafter, the Director shall submit
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation, the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, and the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate and the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
of Representatives a report discussing—
(1) the research programs of Federal agen-
cies that are covered programs;
(2) the research programs of Federal agen-
cies that the Director determines are not
covered programs, and the basis for the de-
termination; and
(3) analysis of enforcement mechanisms
and penalties for fraudulently disclosing for-
eign interests, investments, or involvement
relating to federally funded research and po-
tential recommendations for future legisla-
tion to address unmet needs to protect feder-
ally funded research from foreign inter-
ference, cyber attacks, theft, or espionage.
(e) GAO REPORT.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Oversight and
Reform of the House of Representatives a re-
port that—
(1) includes an analysis of the implementa-
tion of the Framework by Federal agencies;
and
(2) examines compliance by institutions of
higher education, federally funded research
and development centers, and nonprofit re-
search institutions with the Framework.
(f) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
section or resulting framework shall be con-
strued to affect or otherwise disrupt research
activities occurring before, on, or after the
date of enactment of this Act, unless as de-
termined by a majority of the working
group.
SA 655. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1262. POLICY WITH RESPECT TO EXPANSION
OF COOPERATION WITH ALLIES IN
THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION AND EU-
ROPE TO COUNTER THE RISE OF
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The People’s Republic of China is
leveraging military modernization, influence
operations, and predatory economics to co-
erce neighboring countries to reorder the
Indo-Pacific region to the advantage of the
People’s Republic of China.
(2) As the People’s Republic of China con-
tinues its economic and military ascendance,
asserting power through a whole of govern-
ment long-term strategy, the People’s Re-
public of China will continue to pursue a
military modernization program that seeks
Indo-Pacific regional hegemony in the near-
term and displacement of the United States
to achieve global preeminence in the future.
(3) The most important long-term objec-
tive of the defense strategy of the United
States is to set the military relationship be-
tween the United States and the People’s Re-
public of China on a path toward trans-
parency and nonaggression.
(b) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States—
(1) to expand military, diplomatic, and eco-
nomic alliances in the Indo-Pacific region
and with Europe and like-minded countries
around the globe that are critical to address-
ing the rise of the People’s Republic of
China; and
(2) to develop, in collaboration with such
allies, a unified approach to address the rise
of the People’s Republic of China.
SA 656. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1262. REPORTS ON THEFT OF INTELLEC-
TUAL PROPERTY CONDUCTED BY
CHINESE PERSONS.
(a) CLASSIFIED REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to Congress a report on theft of intel-
lectual property conducted by Chinese per-
sons.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An identification of the United States
entities from which a Chinese person has
conducted theft of intellectual property.
(B) For each United States entity identi-
fied under subparagraph (A), to the extent
practicable—
(i) a description of the type of intellectual
property theft;
(ii) an assessment of whether the theft
made the United States entity vulnerable or
unable to compete;
(iii) an identification of the Chinese person
or Chinese persons that conducted the theft;
and
(iv) an identification of any Chinese person
that is using or has used the stolen intellec-
tual property in commercial activity in the
United States.
(C) An identification of United States enti-
ties that have gone out of business in part
due to theft of intellectual property con-
ducted by Chinese persons.
(3) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in classified
form.
(b) UNCLASSIFIED REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to Congress and make available to
the public an unclassified report on theft of
intellectual property conducted by Chinese
persons.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An identification of any Chinese person
that—
(i) has conducted theft of intellectual prop-
erty from one or more United States enti-
ties; or
(ii) is using or has used intellectual prop-
erty stolen by a Chinese person in commer-
cial activity in the United States.
(B) A general description of the intellec-
tual property involved.
(C) For each Chinese person identified
under subparagraph (A), an assessment of
whether that person is using or has used the
stolen intellectual property in commercial
activity in the United States.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGENCY OR INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA.—The term ‘‘agency or instrumen-
tality of the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China’’ means any entity—
(A) that is a separate legal person, cor-
porate or otherwise;
(B) that is an organ of the Government of
the People’s Republic of China or a political
subdivision thereof, or a majority of whose
shares or other ownership interest is owned
by that government or a political subdivi-
sion thereof; and
(C) that is neither a citizen of the United
States, nor created under the laws of any
third country.
(2) CHINESE PERSON.—The term ‘‘Chinese
person’’ means—
(A) an individual who is a citizen or na-
tional of the People’s Republic of China;
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the People’s Republic of China or otherwise
subject to the jurisdiction of the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China; or
(C) the Government of the People’s Repub-
lic of China or any agency or instrumen-
tality of the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China.
(3) COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY.—The term ‘‘com-
mercial activity’’ means either a regular
course of commercial conduct or a particular
commercial transaction or act. The commer-
cial character of an activity shall be deter-
mined by reference to the nature of the
course of conduct or particular transaction
or act, rather than by reference to its pur-
pose.
(4) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.—The term
‘‘intellectual property’’ means—
(A) any work protected by a copyright
under title 17, United States Code;
(B) any property protected by a patent
granted by the United States Patent and
Trademark Office under title 35, United
States Code;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.053 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3683
June 18, 2019
(C) any word, name, symbol, or device, or
any combination thereof, that is registered
as a trademark with the United States Pat-
ent and Trademark Office under the Act en-
titled ‘‘An Act to provide for the registration
and protection of trademarks used in com-
merce, to carry out the provisions of certain
international conventions, and for other pur-
poses’’, approved July 5, 1946 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Lanham Act’’ or the ‘‘Trade-
mark Act of 1946’’) (15 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.);
(D) a trade secret (as defined in section
1839 of title 18, United States Code); or
(E) any other form of intellectual property.
(5) UNITED STATES ENTITY.—The term
‘‘United States entity’’ means an entity or-
ganized under the laws of the United States
or any jurisdiction within the United States.
SA 657. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, add
the following:
SEC. lll. UPDATE ON COMPTROLLER GENERAL
OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON
WEAPON SYSTEMS CYBERSECURITY.
(a) UPDATE REQUIRED.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to Congress an update to
the October 2018 report of the Comptroller
General entitled ‘‘Weapon Systems Cyberse-
curity’’.
(b) CONTENTS.—The update required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) Recommendations to minimize cyber
vulnerabilities in weapon systems.
(2) A proposed timeline for implementing
such recommendations.
(c) FORM.—The update submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SA 658. Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. CORNYN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, and Mrs. BLACKBURN) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of division A, add the following:
TITLE XVII—SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT
TO FOREIGN TRAFFICKERS OF ILLICIT
SYNTHETIC OPIOIDS
SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Fentanyl
Sanctions Act’’.
SEC. 1702. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention estimate that from September
2017 through September 2018 more than 48,200
people in the United States died from an
opioid overdose, with synthetic opioids (ex-
cluding methadone), contributing to a record
31,900 overdose deaths. While drug overdose
death estimates from methadone, semi-syn-
thetic opioids, and heroin have decreased in
recent months, overdose deaths from syn-
thetic opioids have continued to increase.
(2) Congress and the President have taken
a number of actions to combat the demand
for illicit opioids in the United States, in-
cluding enacting into law the SUPPORT for
Patients and Communities Act (Public Law
115–271; 132 Stat. 3894). While new statutes
and regulations have reduced the rate of
opioid prescriptions in recent years, fully ad-
dressing the United States opioid crisis will
involve dramatically restricting the foreign
supply of illicit opioids.
(3) The People’s Republic of China is the
world’s largest producer of illicit fentanyl,
fentanyl analogues, and their immediate pre-
cursors. From the People’s Republic of
China, those substances are shipped pri-
marily through express consignment carriers
or international mail directly to the United
States, or, alternatively, shipped directly to
transnational criminal organizations in Mex-
ico, Canada, and the Caribbean.
(4) The United States and the People’s Re-
public of China, Mexico, and Canada have
made important strides in combating the il-
licit flow of opioids through bilateral efforts
of their respective law enforcement agencies.
(5) The objective of preventing the pro-
liferation of illicit opioids though existing
multilateral and bilateral initiatives re-
quires additional efforts to deny illicit ac-
tors the financial means to sustain their
markets and distribution networks.
(6) The implementation on May 1, 2019, of
the regulations of the People’s Republic of
China to schedule all fentanyl analogues as
controlled substances is a major step in com-
bating global opioid trafficking and rep-
resents a major achievement in United
States-China law enforcement dialogues.
However, that step will effectively fulfill the
commitment that President Xi Jinping of
the People’s Republic of China made to
President Donald Trump at the Group of
Twenty meeting in December 2018 only if the
Government of the People’s Republic of
China devotes sufficient resources to full im-
plementation and strict enforcement of the
new regulations. The effective enforcement
of the new regulations should result in di-
minished trafficking of illicit fentanyl origi-
nating from the People’s Republic of China
into the United States, so it is in the inter-
ests of both the United States and the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China to support the effec-
tive enforcement of the regulations.
(7) While the Department of the Treasury
used the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designa-
tion Act (21 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) to sanction
the first synthetic opioid trafficking entity
in April 2018, additional economic and finan-
cial sanctions policy tools are needed to help
combat the flow of synthetic opioids into the
United States.
SEC. 1703. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the United States should apply eco-
nomic and other financial sanctions to for-
eign traffickers of illicit opioids to protect
the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States and the health
of the people of the United States;
(2) it is imperative that the People’s Re-
public of China follow through on full imple-
mentation of the new regulations, adopted
May 1, 2019, to treat all fentanyl analogues
as controlled substances under the laws of
the People’s Republic of China, including by
devoting sufficient resources for implemen-
tation and strict enforcement of the new reg-
ulations; and
(3) the effective enforcement of the new
regulations should result in diminished traf-
ficking of illicit fentanyl originating from
the People’s Republic of China into the
United States, so it is in the interests of
both the United States and the People’s Re-
public of China to support full, effective, and
strict enforcement of the regulations.
SEC. 1704. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) ALIEN; NATIONAL; NATIONAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.—The terms ‘‘alien’’, ‘‘na-
tional’’, and ‘‘national of the United States’’
have the meanings given those terms in sec-
tion 101 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES AND LEADERSHIP.—The term ‘‘appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Appropriations, the
Committee on Armed Services, the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the
Judiciary, the Select Committee on Intel-
ligence, and the majority leader and the mi-
nority leader of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Appropriations, the
Committee on Armed Services, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, the Committee
on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Home-
land Security, the Committee on the Judici-
ary, the Permanent Select Committee on In-
telligence, and the Speaker and the minority
leader of the House of Representatives.
(3) CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE; LISTED CHEM-
ICAL.—The terms ‘‘controlled substance’’,
‘‘listed chemical’’, ‘‘narcotic drug’’, and
‘‘opioid’’ have the meanings given those
terms in section 102 of the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
(4) ENTITY.—The term ‘‘entity’’ means a
partnership, joint venture, association, cor-
poration, organization, network, group, or
subgroup, or any form of business collabora-
tion.
(5) FOREIGN OPIOID TRAFFICKER.—The term
‘‘foreign opioid trafficker’’ means any for-
eign person that the President determines
plays a significant role in opioid trafficking.
(6) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’—
(A) means—
(i) any citizen or national of a foreign
country; or
(ii) any entity not organized under the
laws of the United States or a jurisdiction
within the United States; and
(B) does not include the government of a
foreign country.
(7) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a
result, means that a person has actual
knowledge, or should have known, of the
conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
(8) OPIOID TRAFFICKING.—The term ‘‘opioid
trafficking’’ means any illicit activity—
(A) to produce, manufacture, distribute,
sell, or knowingly finance or transport illicit
synthetic opioids, controlled substances that
are synthetic opioids, listed chemicals that
are synthetic opioids, or active pharma-
ceutical ingredients or chemicals that are
used in the production of controlled sub-
stances that are synthetic opioids;
(B) to attempt to carry out an activity de-
scribed in subparagraph (A); or
(C) to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with
other persons to carry out such an activity.
(9) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an
individual or entity.
(10) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) any citizen or national of the United
States;
(B) any alien lawfully admitted for perma-
nent residence in the United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.053 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3684 June 18, 2019
(C) any entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States (including a foreign
branch of such an entity); or
(D) any person located in the United
States.
Subtitle A—Sanctions With Respect to
Foreign Opioid Traffickers
SEC. 1711. IDENTIFICATION OF FOREIGN OPIOID
TRAFFICKERS.
(a) PUBLIC REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and leadership, in accordance with
subsection (c), a report—
(A) identifying the foreign persons that the
President determines are foreign opioid traf-
fickers;
(B) detailing progress the President has
made in implementing this subtitle; and
(C) providing an update on cooperative ef-
forts with the Governments of Mexico and
the People’s Republic of China with respect
to combating foreign opioid traffickers.
(2) IDENTIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL PER-
SONS.—If, at any time after submitting a re-
port required by paragraph (1) and before the
submission of the next such report, the
President determines that a foreign person
not identified in the report is a foreign
opioid trafficker, the President shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership an additional report con-
taining the information required by para-
graph (1) with respect to the foreign person.
(3) EXCLUSION.—The President shall not be
required to include in a report under para-
graph (1) or (2) any persons with respect to
which the United States has imposed sanc-
tions before the date of the report under this
subtitle or any other provision of law with
respect to opioid trafficking.
(4) FORM OF REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) or (2) shall be submitted in un-
classified form but may include a classified
annex.
(B) AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC.—The unclassi-
fied portion of a report required by para-
graph (1) or (2) shall be made available to the
public.
(b) CLASSIFIED REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and leadership, in accordance with
subsection (c), a report, in classified form—
(A) describing in detail the status of sanc-
tions imposed under this subtitle, including
the personnel and resources directed toward
the imposition of such sanctions during the
preceding fiscal year;
(B) providing background information with
respect to persons newly identified as foreign
opioid traffickers and their illicit activities;
(C) describing actions the President in-
tends to undertake or has undertaken to im-
plement this subtitle; and
(D) providing a strategy for identifying ad-
ditional foreign opioid traffickers.
(2) EFFECT ON OTHER REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The report required by paragraph (1)
is in addition to the obligations of the Presi-
dent to keep Congress fully and currently in-
formed pursuant to the provisions of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.).
(c) SUBMISSION OF REPORTS.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, and annually thereafter until the
date that is 5 years after such date of enact-
ment, the President shall submit the reports
required by subsections (a) and (b) to the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership.
(d) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
(1) INTELLIGENCE.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, a report re-
quired by subsection (a) or (b) shall not dis-
close the identity of any person if the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence determines that
such disclosure could compromise an intel-
ligence operation, activity, source, or meth-
od of the United States.
(2) LAW ENFORCEMENT.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, a report
required by subsection (a) or (b) shall not
disclose the identity of any person if the At-
torney General, in coordination, as appro-
priate, with the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, the Administrator of
the Drug Enforcement Administration, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
State, and the head of any other appropriate
Federal law enforcement agency, determines
that such disclosure could reasonably be ex-
pected—
(A) to compromise the identity of a con-
fidential source, including a State, local, or
foreign agency or authority or any private
institution that furnished information on a
confidential basis;
(B) to jeopardize the integrity or success of
an ongoing criminal investigation or pros-
ecution;
(C) to endanger the life or physical safety
of any person; or
(D) to cause substantial harm to physical
property.
(3) NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.—If the Director
of National Intelligence makes a determina-
tion under paragraph (1) or the Attorney
General makes a determination under para-
graph (2), the Director or the Attorney Gen-
eral, as the case may be, shall notify the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership of the determination and the rea-
sons for the determination.
(4) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to authorize or
compel the disclosure of information deter-
mined by the President to be law enforce-
ment information, national security infor-
mation, or other information the disclosure
of which is prohibited by any other provision
of law.
(e) PROVISION OF INFORMATION REQUIRED
FOR REPORTS.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall consult
among themselves and provide to the Presi-
dent and the Director of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy the appropriate
and necessary information to enable the
President to submit the reports required by
subsection (a).
SEC. 1712. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INTER-
NATIONAL OPIOID CONTROL RE-
GIME.
It is the sense of Congress that, in order to
apply economic and other financial sanc-
tions to foreign traffickers of illicit opioids
to protect the national security, foreign pol-
icy, and economy of the United States—
(1) the President should instruct the Sec-
retary of State to commence immediately
diplomatic efforts, both in appropriate inter-
national fora such as the United Nations, the
Group of Seven, the Group of Twenty, and
trilaterally and bilaterally with partners of
the United States, to combat foreign opioid
trafficking, including by working to estab-
lish a multilateral sanctions regime with re-
spect to foreign opioid trafficking; and
(2) the Secretary of State, in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury, should
intensify efforts to maintain and strengthen
the coalition of countries formed to combat
foreign opioid trafficking.
SEC. 1713. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.
The President shall impose five or more of
the sanctions described in section 1714 with
respect to each foreign person that is an en-
tity, and four or more of such sanctions with
respect to each foreign person that is an in-
dividual, that—
(1) is identified as a foreign opioid traf-
ficker in a report submitted under section
1711(a); or
(2) the President determines is owned, con-
trolled, directed by, knowingly supplying or
sourcing precursors for, or acting for or on
behalf of, such a foreign opioid trafficker.
SEC. 1714. DESCRIPTION OF SANCTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The sanctions that may
be imposed with respect to a foreign person
under section 1713 are the following:
(1) LOANS FROM UNITED STATES FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS.—The United States Govern-
ment may prohibit any United States finan-
cial institution from making loans or pro-
viding credits to the foreign person.
(2) PROHIBITIONS ON FINANCIAL INSTITU-
TIONS.—The following prohibitions may be
imposed with respect to a foreign person
that is a financial institution:
(A) PROHIBITION ON DESIGNATION AS PRI-
MARY DEALER.—Neither the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System nor
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York may
designate, or permit the continuation of any
prior designation of, the financial institution
as a primary dealer in United States Govern-
ment debt instruments.
(B) PROHIBITION ON SERVICE AS A REPOSI-
TORY OF GOVERNMENT FUNDS.—The financial
institution may not serve as agent of the
United States Government or serve as repos-
itory for United States Government funds.
The imposition of either sanction under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) shall be treated as one
sanction for purposes of section 1713, and the
imposition of both such sanctions shall be
treated as 2 sanctions for purposes of that
section.
(3) PROCUREMENT BAN.—The United States
Government may not procure, or enter into
any contract for the procurement of, any
goods or services from the foreign person.
(4) FOREIGN EXCHANGE.—The President
may, pursuant to such regulations as the
President may prescribe, prohibit any trans-
actions in foreign exchange that are subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States and
in which the foreign person has any interest.
(5) BANKING TRANSACTIONS.—The President
may, pursuant to such regulations as the
President may prescribe, prohibit any trans-
fers of credit or payments between financial
institutions or by, through, or to any finan-
cial institution, to the extent that such
transfers or payments are subject to the ju-
risdiction of the United States and involve
any interest of the foreign person.
(6) PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS.—The Presi-
dent may, pursuant to such regulations as
the President may prescribe, prohibit any
person from—
(A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using,
transferring, withdrawing, or transporting
any property that is subject to the jurisdic-
tion of the United States and with respect to
which the foreign person has any interest;
(B) dealing in or exercising any right,
power, or privilege with respect to such prop-
erty; or
(C) conducting any transaction involving
such property.
(7) BAN ON INVESTMENT IN EQUITY OR DEBT
OF SANCTIONED PERSON.—The President may,
pursuant to such regulations or guidelines as
the President may prescribe, prohibit any
United States person from investing in or
purchasing significant amounts of equity or
debt instruments of the foreign person.
(8) EXCLUSION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS.—
The President may direct the Secretary of
State to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security to exclude from the
United States, any alien that the President
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.056 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3685
June 18, 2019
determines is a corporate officer or principal
of, or a shareholder with a controlling inter-
est in, the foreign person.
(9) SANCTIONS ON PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFI-
CERS.—The President may impose on the
principal executive officer or officers of the
foreign person, or on individuals performing
similar functions and with similar authori-
ties as such officer or officers, any of the
sanctions described in paragraphs (1)
through (8) that are applicable.
(b) PENALTIES.—A person that violates, at-
tempts to violate, conspires to violate, or
causes a violation of any regulation, license,
or order issued to carry out subsection (a)
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a
person that commits an unlawful act de-
scribed in subsection (a) of that section.
(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) INTELLIGENCE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AC-
TIVITIES.—Sanctions under this section shall
not apply with respect to—
(A) any activity subject to the reporting
requirements under title V of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.);
or
(B) any authorized intelligence and law en-
forcement activities of the United States.
(2) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH UNITED NA-
TIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT.—Sanctions
under subsection (a)(8) shall not apply to an
alien if admitting the alien into the United
States is necessary to permit the United
States to comply with the Agreement re-
garding the Headquarters of the United Na-
tions, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947,
and entered into force November 21, 1947, be-
tween the United Nations and the United
States, the Convention on Consular Rela-
tions, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and en-
tered into force March 19, 1967, or other ap-
plicable international obligations.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION; REGULATORY AUTHOR-
ITY.—
(1) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(2) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The President
shall issue such regulations, licenses, and or-
ders as are necessary to carry out this sec-
tion.
SEC. 1715. WAIVERS.
(a) WAIVER FOR STATE-OWNED FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS IN COUNTRIES THAT COOPERATE
IN MULTILATERAL ANTI-TRAFFICKING EF-
FORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive
for a period of not more than 12 months the
application of sanctions under this subtitle
with respect to a financial institution that is
owned or controlled, directly or indirectly,
by a foreign government or any political sub-
division, agency, or instrumentality of a for-
eign government, if, not less than 15 days be-
fore the waiver is to take effect, the Presi-
dent certifies to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and leadership that the
foreign government is closely cooperating
with the United States in efforts to prevent
opioid trafficking.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—The President may cer-
tify under paragraph (1) that a foreign gov-
ernment is closely cooperating with the
United States in efforts to prevent opioid
trafficking if that government is—
(A) implementing domestic laws to sched-
ule all fentanyl analogues as controlled sub-
stances; and
(B) doing two or more of the following:
(i) Implementing substantial improve-
ments in regulations involving the chemical
and pharmaceutical production and export of
illicit opioids.
(ii) Implementing substantial improve-
ments in judicial regulations to combat
transnational criminal organizations that
traffic opioids.
(iii) Increasing efforts to prosecute foreign
opioid traffickers.
(iv) Increasing intelligence sharing and law
enforcement cooperation with the United
States with respect to opioid trafficking.
(3) SUBSEQUENT RENEWAL OF WAIVER.—The
President may renew a waiver under para-
graph (1) for subsequent periods of not more
than 12 months each if, not less than 15 days
before the renewal is to take effect, the Di-
rector of National Intelligence certifies to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership that the government of the
country to which the waiver applies has ef-
fectively implemented and is effectively en-
forcing the measures that formed the basis
for the certification under paragraph (2).
(b) WAIVERS FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AND
ACCESS TO PRESCRIPTION MEDICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive
the application of sanctions under this sub-
title if the President determines that the ap-
plication of such sanctions would harm—
(A) the national security interests of the
United States; or
(B) subject to paragraph (2), the access of
United States persons to prescription medi-
cations.
(2) MONITORING.—The President shall es-
tablish a monitoring program to verify that
a person that receives a waiver under para-
graph (1)(B) is not trafficking illicit opioids.
(3) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 15 days
after making a determination under para-
graph (1), the President shall notify the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership of the determination and the rea-
sons for the determination.
(c) HUMANITARIAN WAIVER.—The President
may waive, for renewable periods of 180 days,
the application of the sanctions under this
subtitle if the President certifies to the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership that the waiver is necessary for
the provision of humanitarian assistance.
SEC. 1716. PROCEDURES FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If a finding under this
subtitle, or a prohibition, condition, or pen-
alty imposed as a result of any such finding,
is based on classified information (as defined
in section 1(a) of the Classified Information
Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court
reviews the finding or the imposition of the
prohibition, condition, or penalty, the Presi-
dent may submit such information to the
court ex parte and in camera.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to confer or
imply any right to judicial review of any
finding under this subtitle, or any prohibi-
tion, condition, or penalty imposed as a re-
sult of any such finding.
SEC. 1717. BRIEFINGS ON IMPLEMENTATION.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act,
and every 180 days thereafter until the date
that is 5 years after such date of enactment,
the President, acting through the Secretary
of State, in coordination with the Secretary
of the Treasury, shall provide to the appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship a comprehensive briefing on efforts to
implement this subtitle.
SEC. 1718. INCLUSION OF ADDITIONAL MATERIAL
IN INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS
CONTROL STRATEGY REPORT.
Section 489(a) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9)(A) An assessment conducted by the
Secretary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of the Treasury, of the extent to
which any diplomatic efforts described in
section 1712 of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act
have been successful.
‘‘(B) Each assessment required by subpara-
graph (A) shall include an identification of—
‘‘(i) the countries the governments of
which have agreed to undertake measures to
apply economic or other financial sanctions
to foreign traffickers of illicit opioids and a
description of those measures; and
‘‘(ii) the countries the governments of
which have not agreed to measures described
in clause (i), and, with respect to those coun-
tries, other measures the Secretary of State
recommends that the United States take to
apply economic and other financial sanc-
tions to foreign traffickers of illicit
opioids.’’.
Subtitle B—Commission on Combating
Synthetic Opioid Trafficking
SEC. 1721. COMMISSION ON COMBATING SYN-
THETIC OPIOID TRAFFICKING.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established a
commission to develop a consensus on a stra-
tegic approach to combating the flow of syn-
thetic opioids into the United States.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The commission estab-
lished under paragraph (1) shall be known as
the ‘‘Commission on Synthetic Opioid Traf-
ficking’’ (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Commission’’).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
(1) COMPOSITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the Commission shall be composed of the
following members:
(i) The Administrator of the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration.
(ii) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
(iii) The Secretary of Defense.
(iv) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(v) The Secretary of State.
(vi) Two members appointed by the major-
ity leader of the Senate, one of whom shall
be a Member of the Senate and one of whom
shall not be.
(vii) Two members appointed by the minor-
ity leader of the Senate, one of whom shall
be a Member of the Senate and one of whom
shall not be.
(viii) Two members appointed by the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, one
of whom shall be a Member of the House of
Representatives and one of whom shall not
be.
(ix) Two members appointed by the minor-
ity leader of the House of Representatives,
one of whom shall be a Member of the House
of Representatives and one of whom shall
not be.
(B)(i) The members of the Commission who
are not Members of Congress and who are ap-
pointed under clauses (vi) through (ix) of
subparagraph (A) shall be individuals who
are nationally recognized for expertise,
knowledge, or experience in—
(I) transnational criminal organizations
conducting synthetic opioid trafficking;
(II) the production, manufacturing, dis-
tribution, sale, or transportation of syn-
thetic opioids; or
(III) relations between—
(aa) the United States; and
(bb) the People’s Republic of China, Mex-
ico, or any other country of concern with re-
spect to trafficking in synthetic opioids.
(ii) An official who appoints members of
the Commission may not appoint an indi-
vidual as a member of the Commission if the
individual possesses any personal or finan-
cial interest in the discharge of any of the
duties of the Commission.
(iii)(I) All members of the Commission de-
scribed in clause (i) shall possess an appro-
priate security clearance in accordance with
applicable provisions of law concerning the
handling of classified information.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.056 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3686 June 18, 2019
(II) For the purpose of facilitating the ac-
tivities of the Commission, the Director of
National Intelligence shall expedite to the
fullest degree possible the processing of secu-
rity clearances that are necessary for mem-
bers of the Commission.
(2) CO-CHAIRS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
have 2 co-chairs, selected from among the
members of the Commission, one of whom
shall be a member of the majority party and
one of whom shall be a member of the minor-
ity party.
(B) SELECTION.—The individuals who serve
as the co-chairs of the Commission shall be
jointly agreed upon by the President, the
majority leader of the Senate, the minority
leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, and the minority
leader of the House of Representatives.
(c) DUTIES.—The duties of the Commission
are as follows:
(1) To define the core objectives and prior-
ities of the strategic approach described in
subsection (a)(1).
(2) To weigh the costs and benefits of var-
ious strategic options to combat the flow of
synthetic opioids from the People’s Republic
of China, Mexico, and other countries.
(3) To evaluate whether the options de-
scribed in paragraph (2) are exclusive or
complementary, the best means for exe-
cuting such options, and how the United
States should incorporate and implement
such options within the strategic approach
described in subsection (a)(1).
(4) To review and make determinations on
the difficult choices present within such op-
tions, among them what norms-based re-
gimes the United States should seek to es-
tablish to encourage the effective regulation
of dangerous synthetic opioids.
(5) To report on efforts by actors in the
People’s Republic of China to subvert United
States laws and to supply illicit synthetic
opioids to persons in the United States, in-
cluding up-to-date estimates of the scale of
illicit synthetic opioids flows from the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China.
(6) To report on the deficiencies in the reg-
ulation of pharmaceutical and chemical pro-
duction of controlled substances and export
controls with respect to such substances in
the People’s Republic of China and other
countries that allow opioid traffickers to
subvert such regulations and controls to
traffic illicit opioids into the United States.
(7) To report on the scale of contaminated
or counterfeit drugs originating from the
People’s Republic of China and India.
(8) To report on how the United States
could work more effectively with provincial
and local officials in the People’s Republic of
China and other countries to combat the il-
licit production of synthetic opioids.
(9) In weighing the options for defending
the United States against the dangers of
trafficking in synthetic opioids, to consider
possible structures and authorities that need
to be established, revised, or augmented
within the Federal Government.
(d) FUNCTIONING OF COMMISSION.—The pro-
visions of subsections (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (i),
and (m) of section 1652 of the John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232) shall apply
to the Commission to the same extent and in
the same manner as such provisions apply to
the commission established under that sec-
tion, except that—
(1) subsection (c)(1) of that section shall be
applied and administered by substituting ‘‘30
days’’ for ‘‘45 days’’;
(2) subsection (g)(4)(A) of that section shall
be applied and administered by inserting
‘‘and the Attorney General’’ after ‘‘Sec-
retary of Defense’’; and
(3) subsections (h)(2)(A) and (i)(1)(A) of
that section shall be applied and adminis-
tered by substituting ‘‘level V of the Execu-
tive Schedule under section 5316’’ for ‘‘level
IV of the Executive Schedule under section
5315’’.
(e) TREATMENT OF INFORMATION RELATING
TO NATIONAL SECURITY.—
(1) RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall assume responsi-
bility for the handling and disposition of any
information related to the national security
of the United States that is received, consid-
ered, or used by the Commission under this
section.
(2) INFORMATION PROVIDED BY CONGRESS.—
Any information related to the national se-
curity of the United States that is provided
to the Commission by the appropriate con-
gressional committees and leadership may
not be further provided or released without
the approval of the chairperson of the com-
mittee, or the Member of Congress, as the
case may be, that provided the information
to the Commission.
(3) ACCESS AFTER TERMINATION OF COMMIS-
SION.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, after the termination of the Commis-
sion under subsection (h), only the members
and designated staff of the appropriate con-
gressional committees and leadership, the
Director of National Intelligence (and the
designees of the Director), and such other of-
ficials of the executive branch as the Presi-
dent may designate shall have access to in-
formation related to the national security of
the United States that is received, consid-
ered, or used by the Commission.
(f) REPORTS.—The Commission shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and leadership—
(1) not later than 270 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, an initial report
on the activities and recommendations of
the Commission under this section; and
(2) not later than 270 days after the submis-
sion of the initial report under paragraph (1),
a final report on the activities and rec-
ommendations of the Commission under this
section.
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2023 to carry out this section.
(h) TERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission, and all
the authorities of this section, shall termi-
nate at the end of the 120-day period begin-
ning on the date on which the final report re-
quired by subsection (f)(2) is submitted to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership.
(2) WINDING UP OF AFFAIRS.—The Commis-
sion may use the 120-day period described in
paragraph (1) for the purposes of concluding
its activities, including providing testimony
to Congress concerning the final report re-
quired by subsection (f)(2) and disseminating
the report.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
SEC. 1731. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE PROGRAM ON USE OF IN-
TELLIGENCE RESOURCES IN EF-
FORTS TO SANCTION FOREIGN
OPIOID TRAFFICKERS.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall, with the concurrence of
the Director of the Office of National Drug
Control Policy, carry out a program to allo-
cate and enhance use of resources of the in-
telligence community, including intelligence
collection and analysis, to assist the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
State, and the Administrator of the Drug
Enforcement Administration in efforts to
identify and impose sanctions with respect
to foreign opioid traffickers under subtitle
A.
(2) FOCUS ON ILLICIT FINANCE.—To the ex-
tent practicable, efforts described in para-
graph (1) shall—
(A) take into account specific illicit fi-
nance risks related to narcotics trafficking;
and
(B) be developed in consultation with the
Undersecretary of the Treasury for Ter-
rorism and Financial Crimes, appropriate of-
ficials of the Office of Intelligence and Anal-
ysis of the Department of the Treasury, the
Director of the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network, and appropriate Federal law
enforcement agencies.
(b) REVIEW OF COUNTERNARCOTICS EFFORTS
OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, carry out a
comprehensive review of the current intel-
ligence collection priorities of the intel-
ligence community for counternarcotics pur-
poses in order to identify whether such prior-
ities are appropriate and sufficient in light
of the number of lives lost in the United
States each year due to use of illegal drugs.
(c) REPORTS.—
(1) QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PROGRAM.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, and every 90 days there-
after, the Director of National Intelligence
and the Director of the Office of National
Drug Control Policy shall jointly submit to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership a report on the status and ac-
complishments of the program required by
subsection (a) during the 90-day period end-
ing on the date of the report. The first report
under this paragraph shall also include a de-
scription of the amount of funds devoted by
the intelligence community to the efforts de-
scribed in subsection (a) during each of fiscal
years 2017 and 2018.
(2) REPORT ON REVIEW.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
and the Director of the Office of National
Drug Control Policy shall jointly submit to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership a comprehensive description
of the results of the review required by sub-
section (b), including whether the priorities
described in that subsection are appropriate
and sufficient in light of the number of lives
lost in the United States each year due to
use of illegal drugs. If the report concludes
that such priorities are not so appropriate
and sufficient, the report shall also include a
description of the actions to be taken to
modify such priorities in order to assure
than such priorities are so appropriate and
sufficient.
(d) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘intelligence commu-
nity’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 3(4) of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
SEC. 1732. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of Defense to carry out the op-
erations and activities described in sub-
section (b) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2025.
(b) OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES.—The oper-
ations and activities described in this sub-
section are the operations and activities of
the Department of Defense in support of any
other department or agency of the United
States Government solely for purposes of
carrying out this title.
(c) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—Amounts
made available under subsection (a) shall
supplement and not supplant other amounts
available to carry out the operations and ac-
tivities described in subsection (b).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.056 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3687
June 18, 2019
(d) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—Amounts
authorized to be appropriated by subsection
(a) may not be obligated until 15 days after
the date on which the President notifies the
appropriate committees of Congress of the
President’s intention to obligate such funds.
(e) CONCURRENCE OF SECRETARY OF
STATE.—Operations and activities described
in subsection (b) carried out with foreign
persons shall be conducted with the concur-
rence of the Secretary of State.
SEC. 1733. DEPARTMENT OF STATE FUNDING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of State to carry out the oper-
ations and activities described in subsection
(b) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2025.
(b) OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES DE-
SCRIBED.—The operations and activities de-
scribed in this subsection are the operations
and activities of the Department of State in
carrying out this title.
(c) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—Amounts
authorized to be appropriated by subsection
(a) shall supplement and not supplant other
amounts available to carry out the oper-
ations and activities described in subsection
(b).
(d) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—Amounts
authorized to be appropriated by subsection
(a) may not be obligated until 15 days after
the date on which the President notifies the
appropriate committees of Congress of the
President’s intention to obligate such funds.
SEC. 1734. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
FUNDING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of the Treasury to carry out
the operations and activities described in
subsection (b) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2025.
(b) OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES DE-
SCRIBED.—The operations and activities de-
scribed in this subsection are the operations
and activities of the Department of the
Treasury in carrying out this title.
(c) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—Amounts
authorized to be appropriated by subsection
(a) shall supplement and not supplant other
amounts available to carry out the oper-
ations and activities described in subsection
(b).
(d) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—Amounts
authorized to be appropriated by subsection
(a) may not be obligated until 15 days after
the date on which the President notifies the
appropriate committees of Congress of the
President’s intention to obligate such funds.
SEC. 1735. TERMINATION.
The provisions of this title, and any sanc-
tions imposed pursuant to this title, shall
terminate on the date that is 7 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1736. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTA-
TION OF GOODS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions under this
title shall not include the authority or a re-
quirement to impose sanctions on the impor-
tation of goods.
(b) GOOD DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
manmade substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
SEC. 1737. APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS DEFINED.
In this subtitle, the term ‘‘appropriate
committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, the Select Committee on Intelligence,
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
SA 659. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of part II of subtitle Aof title
XVI, add the following:
SEC. 1617. ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR CAT-
EGORY C SPACE LAUNCH MISSIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2020, the Secretary of the Air Force shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a plan for the acquisition of Category C
space launch services independently of the
acquisition of Category A and B missions.
Category C missions shall be filled by a mix
of—
(1) commercially available space launch
vehicles; and
(2) previously certified space launch vehi-
cles.
(b) FUNDING AUTHORIZED.—Of the funds au-
thorized to be appropriated in fiscal year 2020
for National Security Space Launch, the Air
Force may transfer up to $100,000,000 to sup-
port the acquisition strategy required by
subsection (a). The Air Force shall, in the
budget materials submitted to the President
by the Secretary of Defense in connection
with the submission to Congress of budget
materials pursuant to section 1105 of title 31,
United States Code, use a separate, dedicated
line item for the procurement of Category C
missions.
(c) COMPETITION.—The Air Force shall use
full and open competition to the maximum
extent practicable in the acquisition of Cat-
egory C space launch services.
(d) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report on the cost of constructing infrastruc-
ture in multiple locations to meet Category
C mission requirements in addition to exist-
ing obstacles which prevent Category C mis-
sions from being conducted out of a single lo-
cation.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) current and previous funding by the
Department of Defense to establish launch
sites to meet Category C requirements; and
(B) overflight concerns to meet Category C
launches including a strategy to mitigate
these concerns.
SA 660. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title II, add the
following:
SEC. lll. STUDY AND REPORT ON THE FEASI-
BILITY AND ADVISABILITY OF CRE-
ATING A DEFENSE MICROELEC-
TRONICS AGENCY.
(a) STUDY AND REPORT REQUIRED.—The De-
fense Science Board shall—
(1) conduct a study on—
(A) the state of the microelectronics indus-
trial base as it relates to the Department of
Defense;
(B) implementation of the recommenda-
tions made by the 2005 Defense Science
Board Task Force On High Performance
Microchip Supply;
(C) assessment of where the assured micro-
electronics mission of the Department
should lie, in particular with research and
engineering or with acquisition and
sustainment; and
(D) the feasibility and advisability of cre-
ating a Defense Microelectronics Agency by
elevating the existing Defense Microelec-
tronics activity and consolidating all related
functions under this agency; and
(2) submit to the congressional defense
committees a report, in writing, on the find-
ings of the Defense Science Board with re-
spect to the study conducted under para-
graph (1).
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) ACQUISITION OF TRUSTED MICROELEC-
TRONIC COMPONENTS.—(A) Development of
recommendations on how the Department of
Defense can develop a plan of action that en-
compasses both short- and long-term tech-
nology, acquisition, and manufacturing ca-
pabilities needed to assure ongoing avail-
ability of supplies of trusted microelectronic
components.
(B) Identification and characterization of
the volume and scope of microelectronics
that require trusted sources.
(2) CONSOLIDATION.—(A) Review all Depart-
ment stakeholders with decisionmaking or
procurement authority for microelectronics.
(B) Determination of whether it is in the
best interests of national security to consoli-
date these efforts and designate a single De-
partment organization with responsibility to
maintain the focus on microelectronic capa-
bilities available to the Department.
(c) BRIEFINGS.—Not later than May 1, 2020,
the Defense Science Board shall provide to
the congressional defense committees with
one or more briefings on the status of the
study required by subsection (a)(1), including
any preliminary findings and recommenda-
tions of the Defense Science Board as a re-
sult of the study as of the date of the brief-
ing.
SA 661. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of part II of subtitle A of title
XVI, add the following:
SEC. 1617. ACCOUNTING FOR FULL INVESTMENT
IN NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE
LAUNCH PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In awarding any contract
for space launch services for the National Se-
curity Space Launch Program, or any suc-
cessor program, the Secretary of Defense
shall ensure that the total government in-
vestment in the development and procure-
ment of the launch services from Launch
Services Agreements is accounted for in de-
termining the total evaluated contract price.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.056 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3688 June 18, 2019
(b) REVIEW REQUIRED.—Prior to the award
of any launch services contract under phase
2 of the National Security Space Launch
Program, the Secretary of Defense shall de-
termine whether the most cost-effective
method of achieving assured access to space
is—
(1) providing Federal funding to develop
new launch vehicles to compete for National
Security Space Launch contracts;
(2) providing commercial space launch pro-
viders with funding to adopt already avail-
able commercial space launch vehicles to
compete for National Security Space Launch
contracts; or
(3) a hybrid approach that incentivizes
commercial providers to compete for launch
services contracts.
(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Before the
award of any contract under phase 2 of the
National Security Space Launch program,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional defense committees a report on the
determination made under subsection (b).
SA 662. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1262. LIMITATION ON REMOVAL OF HUAWEI
TECHNOLOGIES CO. LTD. FROM EN-
TITY LIST OF BUREAU OF INDUSTRY
AND SECURITY.
The Secretary of Commerce may not re-
move Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. (in this
section referred to as ‘‘Huawei’’) from the
entity list maintained by the Bureau of In-
dustry and Security and set forth in Supple-
ment No. 4 to part 744 of title 15, Code of
Federal Regulations, until the Secretary cer-
tifies to Congress that—
(1) neither Huawei nor any senior officers
of Huawei have engaged in actions in viola-
tion of sanctions imposed by the United
States or the United Nations in the 5-year
period preceding the certification;
(2) Huawei has not engaged in theft of
United States intellectual property in that 5-
year period;
(3) Huawei does not pose an ongoing threat
to United States telecommunications sys-
tems or critical infrastructure; and
(4) Huawei does not pose a threat to crit-
ical infrastructure of allies of the United
States.
SA 663. Mr. ENZI submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title XIV, add
the following:
SEC. 1412. REPORT RELATING TO RARE EARTH
ELEMENTS.
Not later than 270 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Energy, in consultation with the Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit to Congress a report that as-
sesses the viability and necessity of using or
developing new technologies to reduce the
reliance of the United States on imports of
rare earth elements, including through—
(1) traditional extraction of such elements;
(2) nontraditional corrosive extraction and
refining of such elements from ore and coal;
and
(3) nontraditional noncorrosive extraction
and refining of such elements from ore and
coal.
SA 664. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title VII, add
the following:
SEC. 729. REPORT ON RELIANCE BY DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE ON PHARMA-
CEUTICAL PRODUCTS FROM CHINA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in coordination
with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a classified report
on the reliance by the Department of De-
fense on imports of certain pharmaceutical
products made in part or in whole in China.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall—
(1) analyze the percent of pharmaceutical
products made in part or in whole in China,
including—
(A) drugs;
(B) nonprescription drugs intended for
human use;
(C) active ingredients;
(D) polymers used to build pharmaceutical
products;
(E) antibiotic drugs;
(F) dietary supplements; and
(G) any other pharmaceutical product, or
its components, as the Secretary considers
appropriate;
(2) assess the products identified under
paragraph (1) to determine—
(A) whether the Department of Defense can
procure the product from other sources;
(B) whether reliance by the Department of
Defense on the product is likely, or has sig-
nificant potential, to be used for a military,
geopolitical, or economic advantage against
the United States;
(C) if reliance on the product creates a risk
for the United States; and
(D) what impact there would be if access to
the product was terminated; and
(3) set forth recommendations to ensure
that by 2025 no pharmaceutical products pur-
chased for beneficiaries of health care from
the Department of Defense or any associated
program are made in part or in whole in
China.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ANTIBIOTIC DRUG.—The term ‘‘antibiotic
drug’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 201(jj) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(jj)).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Select Committee on Intelligence, the Com-
mittee on Finance, and the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence, the Committee on Ways and Means,
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives.
(3) DIETARY SUPPLEMENT.—The term ‘‘die-
tary supplement’’ has the meaning given
that term in section 201(ff) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
321(ff)).
(4) DRUG.—The term ‘‘drug’’ means a prod-
uct subject to regulation under section 505 or
section 802 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355 or 382) or under
section 351 of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 262).
(5) NONPRESCRIPTION DRUG.—The term
‘‘nonprescription drug’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 760(a)(2) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 379aa(a)(2)).
SA 665. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 333. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON BED DOWN OF
CERTAIN AIRCRAFT AT TYNDALL
AIR FORCE BASE.
It is the sense of Congress that the Sec-
retary of the Air Force should—
(1) bed down three F-35 squadrons and an
MQ-9 Wing at Tyndall Air Force Base; and
(2) use innovative construction methods,
materials, designs, and technologies in car-
rying out such bed down in order to achieve
efficiencies, cost savings, resiliency, and ca-
pability, which may include—
(A) innovative and resistant basing that is
highly resilient to weather and natural dis-
aster;
(B) open architecture design to evolve with
the national defense strategy; and
(C) efficient ergonomic enterprise for mem-
bers of the Air Force in the 21st century.
SA 666. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 214.
SA 667. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 542, strike lines 14 through 18, and
insert the following:
‘‘(14) Coastal defense and anti-ship missile
systems.’’;
(D) in paragraph (15), as so redesignated,
by striking ‘‘paragraphs (1) through (13)’’ and
inserting ‘‘paragraphs (1) through (14)’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.055 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3689
June 18, 2019
(E) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(17) Anti-air defense systems.’’;
SA 668. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, add
the following:
SEC. 1668. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR
LONG-RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON
OR W80 WARHEAD LIFE EXTENSION
PROGRAM.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act or any other provision of law, none
of the funds authorized to be appropriated
for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of De-
fense or the Department of Energy may be
obligated or expended for the research, de-
velopment, test, and evaluation or procure-
ment of the long-range standoff weapon or
for the W80 warhead life extension program.
SA 669. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle G of title V, add the
following:
SEC. 589. ATOMIC VETERANS SERVICE MEDAL.
(a) SERVICE MEDAL REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall design and produce a
military service medal, to be known as the
‘‘Atomic Veterans Service Medal’’, to honor
retired and former members of the Armed
Forces who are radiation-exposed veterans
(as such term is defined in section 1112(c)(3)
of title 38, United States Code).
(b) DISTRIBUTION OF MEDAL.—
(1) ISSUANCE TO RETIRED AND FORMER MEM-
BERS.—At the request of a radiation-exposed
veteran, the Secretary of Defense shall issue
the Atomic Veterans Service Medal to the
veteran.
(2) ISSUANCE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.—In the case
of a radiation-exposed veteran who is de-
ceased, the Secretary may provide for
issuance of the Atomic Veterans Service
Medal to the next-of-kin of the person.
(3) APPLICATION.—The Secretary shall pre-
pare and disseminate as appropriate an ap-
plication by which radiation-exposed vet-
erans and their next-of-kin may apply to re-
ceive the Atomic Veterans Service Medal.
SA 670. Mr. WARNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, add
the following:
SEC. lll. ASSESSMENT OF VALUE OF SPEED IN
CYBER THREAT DETECTION, ANAL-
YSIS, AND REMEDIATION.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—The Chief In-
formation Officer of the Department of De-
fense, in coordination with the Director of
the Defense Information Systems Agency,
shall assess the following:
(1) The range of times required by adver-
saries to gain access through a cyber attack
on a Department of Defense network, con-
duct reconnaissance on the network, ac-
quired privileged credentials for operating
on the network, move laterally in the net-
work, and accomplish the goal of the intru-
sion.
(2) Trends over time in the speed with
which adversaries accomplish the steps list-
ed in paragraph (1).
(3) The range of times required by network
defenders to detect indications of the intru-
sion, analyze and characterize the intrusion,
and to remediate the intrusion.
(4) The value of speed in detection, anal-
ysis, and remediation of intrusions to effec-
tively contain and defeat adversaries from
achieving their objectives.
(5) The advisability of adopting response
times as a metric for assessing the perform-
ance of the capabilities of network defenses
and cybersecurity programs and operators
and institutionalizing relevant data collec-
tion and forensic processes across the De-
partment.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Chief Information Officer shall brief the con-
gressional defense committees on the results
of the assessment conducted under sub-
section (a) and any actions that the Chief In-
formation Officer intends to take with re-
spect to the outcome of the assessment.
SA 671. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title XII, add the following:
Subtitle H—Arms Control and Verification
Efforts
SEC. 1291. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Save Arms
control and Verification Efforts Act of 2019’’
or ‘‘SAVE Act’’.
SEC. 1292. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) Every United States president since
John F. Kennedy has successfully concluded
at least one agreement with Russia to reduce
nuclear dangers.
(2) If the Intermediate Range Nuclear
Forces Treaty is terminated, and the New
START Treaty is not extended, or a new
treaty is not negotiated and ratified before
2021, there would be no legally binding,
verifiable limits on the United States or
Russian nuclear arsenals for the first time
since 1972.
(3) For both the United States and the Rus-
sian Federation, the New START Treaty’s
transparency and verification measures pro-
vide invaluable insight into the size, capa-
bilities, and operations of both countries’ nu-
clear forces beyond that provided by more
traditional intelligence collection and as-
sessment methods, helping create a mutually
beneficial environment of stability and pre-
dictability.
(4) Former Republican and Democratic na-
tional security leaders, including George
Shultz, William Perry, Richard Burt, Sam
Nunn, Richard Lugar, and others, have ex-
pressed support for a prompt decision to ex-
tend the New START Treaty.
(5) United States military leaders continue
to see value in the New START Treaty, in-
cluding Gen. John Hyten, Commander of
United States Strategic Command, who told
Congress in March 2018 that ‘‘bilateral,
verifiable arms control agreements are es-
sential to our ability to provide an effective
deterrent,’’ and testified before Congress in
February 2019 that the New START Treaty is
important because it provides to the United
States ‘‘a cap on [Russia’s] strategic baseline
nuclear weapons, and their ballistic missiles,
both submarine and ICBM, as well as their
bombers’’ and ‘‘just as important it gives me
insight through the verification regime to
their Russia’s real capabilities’’.
(6) The United States NATO allies have
consistently expressed support for a decision
by the United States and the Russian Fed-
eration to extend New START before the
scheduled expiration date in 2021.
(7) Russian President Vladimir Putin said
in July 2018 that ‘‘I reassured President
Trump that Russia stands ready to extend
this treaty, to prolong it, but we have to
agree on the specifics . . .’’.
(8) The Department of Defense Report on
the Strategic Nuclear Forces of the Russian
Federation submitted pursuant to section
1240 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112–81;
125 Stat. 1643) determined that Russia
‘‘would not be able to achieve a militarily
significant advantage by any plausible ex-
pansion of its strategic nuclear forces, even
in a cheating or breakout scenario under the
New START Treaty, primarily because of
the inherent survivability of the planned
United States strategic force structure, par-
ticularly the Ohio-class ballistic missile sub-
marines, a number of which are at sea at any
given time’’.
(9) For as long as it must exist, the United
States nuclear arsenal must be maintained
and modernized in a cost-effective manner to
ensure it remains a safe, secure, and reliable
effective nuclear force that can continue to
deter nuclear attack on the United States
and its allies, and so that the United States
can continue to pursue further verifiable re-
duction in global nuclear stockpiles con-
sistent with its obligations under the Nu-
clear Nonproliferation Treaty.
(10) The New START Treaty created a Bi-
lateral Consultative Commission to resolve
issues related to implementation of the New
START Treaty, and Article II of the New
START Treaty states, ‘‘When a Party be-
lieves that a new kind of strategic offensive
arm is emerging, that Party shall have the
right to raise the question of such a stra-
tegic offensive arm for consideration in the
Bilateral Consultative Commission.’’
SEC. 1293. SENSE OF SENATE.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) extending the New START Treaty by a
period of five years is in the national secu-
rity interest of the United States, so long as
the Russian Federation continues to meet
the central limits of the treaty;
(2) the United States should immediately
seek to begin discussions with the Russian
Federation on agreeing to a 5-year extension
of the New START Treaty;
(3) the United States should use the Bilat-
eral Consultative Commission mechanism
within the New START Treaty to address
issues related to new Russian strategic nu-
clear weapons it believes may fall under New
START treaty limits;
(4) extending the New START Treaty
would facilitate efforts by the United States
to pursue additional arms control efforts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.059 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3690 June 18, 2019
with the Russian Federation, including ef-
forts to address the Russian Federation’s
nonstrategic nuclear weapons and emerging
technologies such as hypersonic weapons;
(5) the United States should resume more
regular talks on strategic stability with Rus-
sia, as well as additional bilateral and multi-
lateral arms control efforts worldwide to ad-
dress a changing global security environ-
ment; and
(6) extending the New START Treaty
would facilitate efforts by the United States
to engage with the People’s Republic of
China to reduce dangers associated with its
nuclear arsenal, which is fundamentally dif-
ferent than the Russian Federation’s and re-
quires a separate, focused arms control ef-
fort.
SEC. 1294. CERTIFICATIONS IN EVENT NEW
START TREATY IS NOT EXTENDED.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days
thereafter, if the parties to the New START
Treaty have not completed the procedures
outlined in the treaty and its related proto-
cols and annexes to extend the treaty’s effec-
tive date by up to five years beyond Feb-
ruary 5, 2021—
(1) the President, the Secretary of Defense,
and the Secretary of State shall separately
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a justification for why New
START has not been extended and a certifi-
cation that the absence of an extension of
the treaty is in the national security inter-
est of the United States; and
(2) the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees—
(A) an intelligence community-coordinated
assessment of why the New START Treaty
has not been extended;
(B) a certification that the absence of an
extension of the treaty is in the national se-
curity interest of the United States; and
(C)(i) a certification that the United States
is not losing intelligence insight into the
Russian Federation’s strategic nuclear pro-
gram; or
(ii) a report detailing how the Director of
National Intelligence and the intelligence
community will account for any lost intel-
ligence capabilities.
SEC. 1295. NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a National Intelligence Esti-
mate, consisting of an unclassified executive
summary and judgments and a more de-
tailed, classified report on the Russian Fed-
eration’s compliance with the New START
Treaty and the impact to the intelligence
collection capabilities of the United States if
the New START Treaty and its related infor-
mation exchanges and associated inspections
regimes were to lapse. The report shall in-
clude the following elements:
(1) A description of the Russian Federa-
tion’s compliance with the New START
Treaty.
(2) An assessment of the Russian Federa-
tion’s intentions with regard to extending
the New START Treaty.
(3) A description of the intelligence collec-
tion benefits gained as a result of the ratifi-
cation and implementation of the New
START Treaty.
(4) An assessment of what specific capabili-
ties the United States intelligence commu-
nity would have to develop and deploy to en-
sure that no loss of collection capability
would occur in the event of the lapse of the
New START Treaty.
(5) A cost estimate and estimated timeline
for developing these new or additional capa-
bilities, and a description of how new intel-
ligence gathering requirements related to
the Russian Federation’s nuclear forces may
affect other United States intelligence gath-
ering needs.
(6) An assessment of projections for Rus-
sian Federation nuclear and non-nuclear
force size, structure, and composition with
the New START Treaty limitations in place
and without the limitations in place.
(7) An assessment of Russian Federation
actions, intentions, and likely responses to
the United States withdrawing from, sus-
pending its obligations under, or allowing to
lapse the New START Treaty and subse-
quently developing platforms and weapons
beyond the New START Treaty’s limita-
tions.
(b) BRIEFINGS.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall brief the appropriate con-
gressional committees on the elements set
forth in subsection (a) when the National In-
telligence Estimate is submitted under such
subsection and every 120 days thereafter.
SEC. 1296. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.—
(1) REPORT ON EXPECTED FORCE STRUCTURE
CHANGES IN EVENT OF TREATY LAPSE.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, and not later than Feb-
ruary 5, 2021, if the New START Treaty is al-
lowed to lapse, the Secretary of Defense
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report discussing
changes to the expected force structure of
the United States Armed Forces if the New
START Treaty is no longer in place and esti-
mating the expected costs necessary to make
such changes.
(2) REPORT ON IMPACTS TO MODERNIZATION
PLAN.—Not later than 90 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, and not later
than February 5, 2021, if the New START
Treaty is allowed to lapse, the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of Energy shall
jointly submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on how the cur-
rent program of record to replace and up-
grade United States nuclear weapons deliv-
ery systems and warheads, which anticipates
the continued existence of the New START
Treaty, would be modified without the exist-
ence of the New START Treaty. The report
shall include the information required to be
submitted in the report required by section
1043 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112–81;
125 Stat. 1576) and shall include—
(A) a separate 10-year cost estimate from
the Department of Defense to implement a
nuclear sustainment plan that does and does
not anticipate the continued existence of the
New START Treaty, including possible costs
associated with conversion or uploading of
strategic delivery vehicles and warheads;
(B) a separate 10-year cost estimate from
the Department of Energy to implement a
nuclear sustainment and modernization plan
that does and does not anticipate the contin-
ued existence of the New START Treaty, in-
cluding uploading warheads previously with-
drawn from service;
(C) a description of how the absence of the
New START Treaty limits would impact the
schedule and cost of Department of Energy’s
Stockpile Stewardship management plan;
and
(D) an assessment of the potential impacts
on how these changes will impact the De-
partment of Energy’s nuclear weapons com-
plex.
(b) DEPARTMENT OF STATE.—Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and not later than February 5, 2021,
if the New START Treaty is allowed to
lapse, the Secretary of State shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
report on the likely foreign policy implica-
tions of and potential impacts to United
States diplomatic relations if the New
START Treaty lapses. The report shall in-
clude the following elements:
(1) An assessment of the likely reactions of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) and NATO member countries, United
States allies, Asia, and each permanent
member of the United Nations Security
Council.
(2) A description of the expected impacts
on the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and
the ability of the United States to key non-
proliferation objectives.
(3) A description of the risks posed to the
long-term health of the Nuclear Non-
proliferation Treaty in the absence of United
States-Russia bilateral nuclear arms control
agreements and dialogue.
(c) PRESIDENTIAL REPORT ON STRATEGIC
ARMS CONTROL STRATEGY.—Not later than
February 5, 2020, the President shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
a report including—
(1) a 5-year strategy for future strategic
arms control agreements with the Russian
Federation;
(2) an update on the status of any current
discussions that may be in progress at time
of report; and
(3) a description of other United States bi-
lateral and multilateral arms control efforts
globally.
SEC. 1297. PROHIBITION ON INCREASES IN CER-
TAIN WARHEADS, MISSILES, AND
LAUNCHERS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If either of the conditions
in paragraph (2) occurs, the United States
Government may not, except as provided
under subsection (b), obligate or expend any
funds to—
(A) increase above 1,550 the number of
United States warheads operationally de-
ployed on launchers for ICBMs, SLBMs, and
heavy bombers;
(B) increase above 700 the number of de-
ployed Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles
(ICBMs), Submarine-Launched Ballistic Mis-
siles (SLBMs), and heavy bombers; or
(C) increase above 800 the number of de-
ployed and non-deployed ICBM launchers,
SLBM launchers, and heavy bombers,
as such terms are defined and such systems
are counted in the New START Treaty.
(2) CONDITIONS.—The conditions referred to
in paragraph (1) are as follows:
(A) The President initiates United States
withdrawal from the New START Treaty in
accordance with the procedures outlined in
the New START Treaty and its related pro-
tocols and annexes.
(B) As of February 5, 2021, the parties to
the New START Treaty have not completed
the procedures outlined in the New START
Treaty and its related protocols and annexes
to extend the Treaty’s effective date to Feb-
ruary 5, 2026.
(C) The President takes one or more ac-
tions to suspend United States obligations
outlined in the New START Treaty and its
related protocols and annexes.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The prohibition under
subsection (a) shall not be in effect if all of
the following conditions are met:
(1) The President, the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Energy, and the Director of National Intel-
ligence jointly certify that the Russian Fed-
eration is, in a way that is militarily signifi-
cant—
(A) increasing above 1,550 the number of
the Russian Federation’s strategic warheads
operationally deployed on launchers for
Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs),
Submarine-Launched Ballistic Missiles
(SLBMs), and heavy bombers;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.058 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3691
June 18, 2019
(B) increasing above 700 the number of de-
ployed ICBMs, SLBMs, and heavy bombers;
or
(C) increasing above 800 the number of de-
ployed and non-deployed ICBM launchers,
SLBM launchers, and heavy bombers,
as such terms are defined and such systems
are counted in the New START Treaty and
its related protocols and annexes.
(2) The President, the Director of National
Intelligence, the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of Energy, and the Secretary of De-
fense certify that it is in the national secu-
rity interest of the United States to exceed
prohibition limits.
(3) The Secretary of Defense and the Sec-
retary of Energy submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a report with 10-
year cost projections related to increasing
the number of United States nuclear war-
heads, delivery vehicles, and systems as cov-
ered by the New START Treaty and its re-
lated protocols and annexes.
(4) The Director of National Intelligence
submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a National Intelligence Estimate
of Russian actions, intentions, and likely re-
sponses to the United States exceeding these
specified caps.
(5) The Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of Energy, and the
Director of National Intelligence provide
briefings to the appropriate congressional
committees about the certifications and re-
ports submitted under paragraphs (1) though
(4).
(6) There is not enacted, within 60 days
after each of the conditions in paragraphs (1)
through (5) having been met, a joint resolu-
tion of disapproval that continues the prohi-
bition on funding levels under subsection (a).
(c) SUNSET.—The prohibition under sub-
section (a) shall expire on February 5, 2026.
SEC. 1298. FORM OF REPORTS AND CERTIFI-
CATIONS.
If any report or certification required
under this subtitle is submitted in classified
form, an unclassified version shall also be
submitted at the same time.
SEC. 1299. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—The term ‘‘appropriate con-
gressional committees’’ means all members
of—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Armed Services, the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence, and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(2) INTERMEDIATE RANGE NUCLEAR FORCES
TREATY.—The term ‘‘Intermediate Range Nu-
clear Forces Treaty’’ means the Treaty be-
tween the United States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the
Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range
and Shorter-Range Missiles, together with
the Memorandum of Understanding and Two
Protocols, signed at Washington December 8,
1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
(3) NEW START TREATY.—The term ‘‘New
START Treaty’’ means the Treaty between
the United States of America and the Rus-
sian Federation on Measures for the Further
Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Of-
fensive Arms, signed April 8, 2010, and en-
tered into force February 5, 2011.
(4) NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY.—
The term ‘‘Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty’’
means the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons, signed at Washington
July 1, 1968 (commonly known as the
‘‘NPT’’).
SA 672. Mr. CARPER (for himself and
Mr. KAINE) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle G of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1290. LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS ON AU-
THORITY OF PRESIDENT TO MODIFY
CERTAIN DUTY RATES AND IMPOSE
CERTAIN DUTIES OR OTHER IMPORT
RESTRICTIONS.
(a) LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY OF PRESIDENT
TO MODIFY DUTY RATES FOR NATIONAL SECU-
RITY REASONS.—
(1) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY DUTY RATES FOR
NATIONAL SECURITY REASONS.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law and ex-
cept as provided in paragraph (3), the Presi-
dent may proclaim a new or additional na-
tional security duty on an article imported
into the United States only if—
(A) the President, not later than 30 cal-
endar days after making the national secu-
rity determination that is the basis for the
new or additional duty, submits to the Inter-
national Trade Commission the duty pro-
posal, including—
(i) a description of each article for which
the President recommends a new or addi-
tional duty;
(ii) the proposed new or additional duty
rate; and
(iii) the proposed duration of that rate;
(B) the President, not later than 15 cal-
endar days after submitting the duty pro-
posal under subparagraph (A), submits to
Congress a request for authorization to mod-
ify duty rates in accordance with that duty
proposal, including—
(i) a report by the Secretary of Defense ex-
plaining why the proposal is in the interest
of national security; and
(ii) a report by the International Trade
Commission assessing the likely impact of
the proposal on the economy of the United
States as a whole and specific industry sec-
tors;
(C) the President consults with the Com-
mittee on Finance and the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means and the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives regarding the duty proposal
under subparagraph (A), including—
(i) the short-term and long-term goals of
the proposal;
(ii) an action plan to achieve those goals;
and
(iii) plans to consult with officials of coun-
tries impacted by the proposal to resolve any
issues relating to the proposal; and
(D) a joint resolution of approval under
paragraph (2) is enacted.
(2) JOINT RESOLUTION OF APPROVAL.—
(A) JOINT RESOLUTION OF APPROVAL DE-
FINED.—In this paragraph, the term ‘‘joint
resolution of approval’’ means a joint resolu-
tion the sole matter after the resolving
clause of which is as follows: ‘‘That Congress
authorizes the President to proclaim duty
rates as set forth in the request of the Presi-
dent on lllllllllll’’, with the
blank space being filled with the date of the
request submitted under paragraph (1)(B).
(B) INTRODUCTION.—A joint resolution of
approval may be introduced in either House
of Congress by any Member during the 15-
legislative day period beginning on the date
on which the President submits to Congress
the material set forth in paragraph (1)(B).
(C) EXPEDITED PROCEDURES.—The provi-
sions of subsections (b) through (f) of section
152 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2192)
apply to a joint resolution of approval to the
same extent that such subsections apply to
joint resolutions under such section 152.
(D) RULES OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
AND SENATE.—This paragraph is enacted by
Congress—
(i) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives, respectively, and as such is deemed a
part of the rules of each House, respectively,
but applicable only with respect to the pro-
cedure to be followed in that House in the
case of a joint resolution of approval, and su-
persedes other rules only to the extent that
it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(ii) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of either House to change the
rules (so far as relating to the procedure of
that House) at any time, in the same man-
ner, and to the same extent as in the case of
any other rule of that House.
(3) EXCEPTION FOR URGENT ACTION.—Not-
withstanding the requirements of paragraph
(1), the President may proclaim a new or ad-
ditional national security duty for one pe-
riod of 120 calendar days if the President de-
termines that urgent action is necessary—
(A) to address a national emergency;
(B) for the prevention or mitigation of, or
to respond to, loss of life or property;
(C) to address an imminent threat to
health or safety;
(D) for the enforcement of criminal laws;
or
(E) for national security.
(4) NATIONAL SECURITY DUTY DEFINED.—In
this subsection, the term ‘‘national security
duty’’ means the following:
(A) A duty proclaimed pursuant to—
(i) section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862);
(ii) the Trading with the Enemy Act (50
U.S.C. 4301 et seq.); or
(iii) the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
(B) A duty proclaimed pursuant to any
other provision of law if in reports or other
public statements regarding the duty the
President or another cabinet-level official
identifies national security as a significant
reason for proclaiming the duty.
(b) CONDITIONS ON USE OF AUTHORITY BY
UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE TO
IMPOSE DUTIES OR OTHER IMPORT RESTRIC-
TIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 301(c) of the Trade
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2411(c)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7)(A) The Trade Representative may take
action pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) only if—
‘‘(i) the Trade Representative submits to
the International Trade Commission a pro-
posal for duties or other import restrictions
under that paragraph, including—
‘‘(I) a description of each article covered
by that proposal;
‘‘(II) the proposed new or additional duty
rate; and
‘‘(III) the proposed duration of that rate;
‘‘(ii) the Trade Representative submits to
Congress a notification of intent to impose
duties or import restrictions under that
paragraph, including—
‘‘(I) the proposal submitted under clause
(i); and
‘‘(II) a report by the International Trade
Commission assessing the likely impact of
the proposal on the economy of the United
States as a whole and specific industry sec-
tors;
‘‘(iii) after submitting the notification
under clause (ii), the Trade Representative
consults with the Committee on Finance of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.058 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3692 June 18, 2019
the Senate and the Committee on Ways and
Means of the House of Representatives and,
if the proposal affects agricultural products,
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Agriculture of the House of Rep-
resentatives;
‘‘(iv) a period of 60 calendar days, begin-
ning on the date on which the Trade Rep-
resentative has completed consultations
under clause (iii), has passed; and
‘‘(v) no disapproval resolution under sub-
paragraph (B) is passed during the period de-
scribed in clause (iv).
‘‘(B)(i) In this subparagraph, the term ‘dis-
approval resolution’ means a joint resolution
the sole matter after the resolving clause of
which is as follows: ‘That implementation of
the proposal by the Trade Representative to
impose duties or other import restrictions
submitted to Congress on
llllllllllllllll is not in the
interest of the United States.’, with the
blank space being filled with the date on
which the Trade Representative submitted
to Congress the material described in sub-
section (A)(ii).
‘‘(ii) Paragraph (2) of section 106(b) of the
Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities
and Accountability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C.
4205(b)) applies to a disapproval resolution
under this subparagraph to the same extent
that such paragraph applies to a procedural
disapproval resolution under such section
106(b).’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph
(1)(B) of such section is amended by inserting
‘‘subject to paragraph (7),’’ before ‘‘impose
duties’’.
SA 673. Mr. BENNET (for himself and
Ms. WARREN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 12ll. MODIFICATION OF SEMIANNUAL RE-
PORT ON ENHANCING SECURITY
AND STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN.
Paragraph (1) of section 1225(b) of the Carl
Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’ McKeon Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2015 (Public Law 113–291; 127 Stat. 3550)
is amended—
(1) in the paragraph heading by inserting
‘‘AND TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE AUGUST 2017
STRATEGY OF THE UNITED STATES’’ after
‘‘2014’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) by striking the period at the end and
inserting a semicolon;
(B) by striking ‘‘in the assessment of any
such’’ and inserting ‘‘in the assessment of—
‘‘(i) any such’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
clauses:
‘‘(ii) the United States counterterrorism
mission; and
‘‘(iii) efforts by the Department of Defense
to support reconciliation efforts and develop
conditions for the expansion of the reach of
the Government of Afghanistan throughout
Afghanistan.’’.
SA 674. Mr. BENNET submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle F of title XII, insert
the following:
SEC. 1272. REPORT ON EXPORT OF CERTAIN SAT-
ELLITES TO ENTITIES WITH CER-
TAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP
STRUCTURES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation
with the heads of appropriate agencies, shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on addressing the
threat or potential threat posed by the ex-
port, reexport, or in-country transfer of sat-
ellites described in section 1261(c)(1) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2013 (Public Law 112–239; 22 U.S.C.
2778 note) to entities described in subsection
(b).
(b) ENTITIES DESCRIBED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An entity described in
this subsection is an entity the beneficial
owner of which is—
(A) an individual who is a citizen or na-
tional of a country described in section
1261(c)(2) of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2013;
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of
such a country;
(C) the government of such a country; or
(D) any other individual or entity the Sec-
retary determines may detrimentally affect
the national security of the United States.
(2) DETERMINATION OF BENEFICIAL OWNER-
SHIP.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall identify a person as the bene-
ficial owner of an entity—
(A) in a manner that is not less stringent
than the manner set forth in section 240.13d–
3 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations (as
in effect on the date of the enactment of this
Act); and
(B) based on a threshold, to be determined
by the Secretary, based on an assessment of
whether the person’s position would give the
person an opportunity to control the use of a
satellite described in section 1261(c)(1) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2013 and exported, reexported, or
transferred in country to the entity.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An evaluation of whether satellites de-
scribed in section 1261(c)(1) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2013 have been exported, reexported, or
transferred in-country, directly or indi-
rectly, to entities described in subsection
(b).
(2) An examination of the effect on na-
tional security of the potential export, reex-
port, or in-country transfer of satellites in
compliance with section 1261(c) of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2013 in circumstances in which the serv-
ices, bandwidth, or functions of the satellites
could subsequently be leased or sold to, or
otherwise used by, an entity described in
subsection (b).
(3) An examination of the effect on na-
tional security of not limiting the export, re-
export, or in-country transfer of such sat-
ellites to entities described in subsection (b).
(4) Recommendations for, and an assess-
ment of the effectiveness of, a licensing con-
dition that would prohibit or limit the ex-
port, reexport, or in-country transfer of such
satellites to, or the use of such satellites by,
entities described in subsection (b).
(5) An assessment, based on realistic and
justifiable assumptions and forecasts, of the
economic implications of and potential harm
caused by a licensing condition described in
paragraph (4) on the United States industries
that develop or produce satellites and com-
mercial telecommunications equipment that
do not have direct national security ties, in-
cluding any costs identified under paragraph
(3).
(6) An evaluation of the resources nec-
essary to ensure the ability of the Bureau of
Industry and Security of the Department of
Commerce—
(A) to adequately identify and analyze the
beneficial owners of entities in decisions re-
lating to—
(i) issuing licenses for the export, reexport,
or in-country transfer of such satellites to
such entities; or
(ii) the ultimate end uses and end-users of
such satellites; and
(B) when evaluating such a decision—
(i) to have full knowledge of the potential
end-user of the satellite and the current ben-
eficial owner of the entity; and
(ii) to be able to determine whether issuing
the license would be inconsistent with the
goal of preventing entities described in sub-
section (b) from accessing or using such sat-
ellites.
(d) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
(e) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation, the Committee
on Foreign Relations, and the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives.
SA 675. Mr. BENNET (for himself and
Mr. GARDNER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 324. PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR THE TREAT-
MENT OF PERFLUOROOCTANE SUL-
FONIC ACID AND
PERFLUOROOCTANOIC ACID IN
DRINKING WATER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Air
Force shall pay a local water authority lo-
cated in the vicinity of an installation of the
Air Force, or a State in which the local
water authority is located, for the treatment
of perfluorooctane sulfonic acid and
perfluorooctanoic acid in drinking water
from the wells owned and operated by the
local water authority to attain the lifetime
health advisory level for such acids estab-
lished by the Environmental Protection
Agency and in effect on October 1, 2017.
(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.—To be eligi-
ble to receive payment under subsection
(a)—
(1) a local water authority or State, as the
case may be, must—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.057 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3693
June 18, 2019
(A) request such a payment from the Sec-
retary of the Air Force for reimbursable ex-
penses not already covered under a coopera-
tive agreement entered into by the Secretary
relating to treatment of perfluorooctane sul-
fonic acid and perfluorooctanoic acid con-
tamination before the date on which funding
is made available to the Secretary for pay-
ments relating to such treatment; and
(B) upon acceptance of such a payment,
waive all legal causes of action arising under
chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code
(commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort
Claims Act’’), and any other Federal tort li-
ability statute for expenses for treatment
and mitigation of perfluorooctane sulfonic
acid and perfluorooctanoic acid incurred be-
fore January 1, 2018, and otherwise covered
under this section;
(2) the elevated levels of perfluorooctane
sulfonic acid and perfluorooctanoic acid in
the water must be the result of activities
conducted by or paid for by the Department
of the Air Force; and
(3) treatment or mitigation of such acids
must have taken place during the period be-
ginning on January 1, 2016, and ending on the
day before the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(c) AGREEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Air
Force may enter into such agreements with
a local water authority or State as the Sec-
retary considers necessary to implement this
section.
(2) USE OF MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT.—
The Secretary of the Air Force may use the
applicable Defense State Memorandum of
Agreement to pay amounts under subsection
(a) that would otherwise be eligible for pay-
ment under that agreement were those costs
paid using amounts appropriated to the En-
vironmental Restoration Account, Air Force,
established under section 2703(a)(4) of title
10, United States Code.
(3) PAYMENT WITHOUT REGARD TO EXISTING
AGREEMENTS.—Payment may be made under
subsection (a) to a State or a local water au-
thority in that State without regard to ex-
isting agreements relating to environmental
response actions or indemnification between
the Department of the Air Force and that
State.
(d) LIMITATION.—Any payment made under
subsection (a) may not exceed the actual
cost of treatment of perfluorooctane sulfonic
acid and perfluorooctanoic acid resulting
from the activities conducted by or paid for
by the Department of the Air Force.
(e) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—Of the
amounts appropriated to the Department of
Defense for Operation and Maintenance, Air
Force, $10,000,000 shall be available to carry
out this section.
SA 676. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Mr. COTTON, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Mr. CARDIN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title X, add the
following:
SEC. lll. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE NAM-
ING OF A NAVAL VESSEL IN HONOR
OF SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER
SHANNON KENT.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) Senior Chief Petty Officer Shannon M.
Kent was born in Owego, New York.
(2) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent enlisted
in the United States Navy on December 10,
2003.
(3) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent was flu-
ent in four languages and four dialects of Ar-
abic.
(4) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent served
five combat tours throughout 15 years of
service in the Navy.
(5) On January 16, 2019, at 35 years of age,
Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent was killed in
a suicide bombing in Manbij, Syria, while
supporting Joint Task Force-Operation In-
herent Resolve.
(6) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent was the
recipient of the Bronze Star, the Purple
Heart, two Joint Service Commendation
Medals, the Navy and Marine Corps Com-
mendation Medal, the Army Commendation
Medal, and the Joint Service Achievement
Medal, among other decorations and awards.
(7) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent was
among the first women to deploy with Spe-
cial Operations Forces and was the first fe-
male to graduate from the hard skills pro-
gram for non-SEALs.
(8) Senior Chief Petty Officer Kent is sur-
vived by her husband and two children.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Secretary of the Navy
should name the next available naval vessel
appropriate for such name in honor of Senior
Chief Petty Officer Shannon Kent.
SA 677. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 12ll. STATEMENT OF POLICY AND SENSE
OF SENATE ON MUTUAL DEFENSE
TREATY WITH THE REPUBLIC OF
THE PHILIPPINES.
(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States that—
(1) while the United States has long adopt-
ed an approach that takes no position on the
ultimate disposition of the disputed sov-
ereignty claims in the South China Sea, dis-
puting States should—
(A) resolve their disputes peacefully with-
out the threat or use of force; and
(B) ensure that their maritime claims are
consistent with international law; and
(2) an attack on the armed forces, public
vessels, or aircraft of the Republic of the
Philippines in the Pacific, including the
South China Sea, would trigger the mutual
defense obligations of the United States
under Article IV of the Mutual Defense Trea-
ty between the Republic of the Philippines
and the United States of America, done at
Washington August 30, 1951, ‘‘to meet com-
mon dangers in accordance with its constitu-
tional processes’’.
(b) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate that the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Defense should—
(1) affirm the commitment of the United
States to the Mutual Defense Treaty be-
tween the United States and the Republic of
the Philippines;
(2) preserve and strengthen the alliance of
the United States with the Republic of the
Philippines;
(3) prioritize efforts to develop a shared un-
derstanding of alliance commitments and de-
fense planning; and
(4) provide appropriate support to the Re-
public of the Philippines to strengthen the
self-defense capabilities of the Republic of
the Philippines, particularly in the maritime
domain.
SA 678. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title VIII, add
the following:
SEC. 811. DOCUMENTATION OF MARKET RE-
SEARCH RELATED TO COMMERCIAL
ITEM DETERMINATIONS.
Section 3307(d) of title 41, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(4) Agencies shall document the results of
market research in a manner appropriate to
the size and complexity of the acquisition.’’.
SA 679. Mr. UDALL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 10ll. ROYALTIES FOR MINING; ABAN-
DONED MINE RECLAMATION FEES;
LIMITATION ON PATENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Production of all
locatable minerals, including any minerals
identified by the Secretary of Commerce or
the Secretary of the Interior as critical min-
erals, from any mining claim located under
the general mining laws shall be subject to a
royalty established by the Secretary of the
Interior by regulation of not less than 5 per-
cent, and not more than 8 percent, of the
gross income from mining for production of
all locatable minerals.
(b) ABANDONED MINE LAND RECLAMATION
FEE.—Each operator of a hardrock minerals
mining operation shall pay to the Secretary
of the Interior a reclamation fee in an
amount established by the Secretary of the
Interior by regulation of not less than 1 per-
cent, and not more than 3 percent, of the
value of the production from the hardrock
minerals mining operation for each calendar
year.
(c) LIMITATION ON PATENTS.—
(1) DETERMINATIONS REQUIRED.—No patent
shall be issued by the United States for any
mining claim, millsite, or tunnel site located
under the general mining laws unless the
Secretary of the Interior determines that—
(A) a patent application was filed with the
Secretary of the Interior with respect to the
claim not later than September 30, 1994; and
(B) all requirements applicable to the pat-
ent application under law were fully com-
plied with by the date described in subpara-
graph (A).
(2) RIGHT TO PATENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B) and notwithstanding paragraph (3), if the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.057 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3694 June 18, 2019
Secretary of the Interior makes the deter-
minations under subparagraphs (A) and (B)
of paragraph (1) with respect to a mining
claim, millsite, or tunnel site, the claim
holder shall be entitled to the issuance of a
patent in the same manner and degree to
which the claim holder would have been en-
titled to a patent before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) WITHDRAWAL.—The claim holder shall
not be entitled to the issuance of a patent if
the determinations under subparagraphs (A)
and (B) of paragraph (1) are withdrawn or in-
validated by the Secretary of the Interior or,
on review, by a court of the United States.
(3) REPEAL.—Section 2325 of the Revised
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29) is repealed.
SA 680. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1247. BRIEFING ON DETERRENCE OF OP-
PORTUNISTIC AGGRESSION BY THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION AGAINST
BALTIC ALLIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
briefing on the following:
(1) The deterrence of opportunistic aggres-
sion by the Russian Federation against one
or more Baltic allies in the case of engage-
ment of the Armed Forces in a conflict with
the People’s Republic of China.
(2) The deterrence of opportunistic aggres-
sion by the Russian Federation against one
or more Baltic allies in the case of engage-
ment of the Armed Forces in a conflict with
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
(3) The deterrence of opportunistic aggres-
sion by the Russian Federation against one
or more Baltic allies in the case of engage-
ment of the Armed Forces in a conflict with
Iran.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The brief-
ing under subsection (a) shall include, for
each scenario described in paragraphs (1)
through (3) of that subsection, the following:
(1) A description of the requirements to
deter such opportunistic aggression.
(2) A description of the requirements to re-
store deterrence against the Russian Federa-
tion in the case of such opportunistic aggres-
sion.
(3) An assessment of the ability of the De-
partment of Defense to meet the require-
ments described under paragraphs (1) and (2)
at current resource levels.
(4) Recommendations to ensure that the
Department will be able to meet any such re-
quirement that the Department is unable to
meet as of the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SA 681. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1262. BRIEFING ON DETERRENCE OF OP-
PORTUNISTIC AGGRESSION BY THE
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGAINST TAIWAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in collaboration
with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall provide
to the congressional defense committees a
briefing on the following:
(1) The deterrence of opportunistic aggres-
sion by the People’s Republic of China
against Taiwan in the case of engagement of
the Armed Forces in a conflict with the Rus-
sian Federation.
(2) The deterrence of opportunistic aggres-
sion by the People’s Republic of China
against Taiwan in the case of engagement of
the Armed Forces in a conflict with the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
(3) The deterrence of opportunistic aggres-
sion by the People’s Republic of China
against Taiwan in the case of engagement of
the Armed Forces in a conflict with Iran.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The brief-
ing under subsection (a) shall include, for
each scenario described in paragraphs (1)
through (3) of that subsection, the following:
(1) A description of the requirements to
deter such opportunistic aggression.
(2) A description of the requirements to re-
store deterrence against the People’s Repub-
lic of China in the case of such opportunistic
aggression.
(3) An assessment of the ability of the De-
partment of Defense to meet the require-
ments described under paragraphs (1) and (2)
at current resource levels.
(4) Recommendations to ensure that the
Department will be able to meet any such re-
quirement that the Department is unable to
meet as of the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SA 682. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1262. REPORT ON IMPROVEMENTS TO DE-
TERRENCE EFFORTS WITH RESPECT
TO THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with
the Commander of the United States Indo-
Pacific Command, shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report de-
tailing efforts to improve the ability of the
Armed Forces and allied and partner mili-
tary forces to deny the ability of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China to execute a fait
accompli against Taiwan.
(b) MATTER TO BE INCLUDED.—The report
under subsection (a) shall identify
prioritized requirements for further improv-
ing the ability of the Armed Forces and al-
lied and partner military forces to deny the
ability of the People’s Republic of China to
execute a fait accompli against Taiwan.
(c) FORM.—The report under subsection (a)
shall—
(1) be submitted in classified form; and
(2) include an unclassified summary appro-
priate for release to the public.
(d) FAIT ACCOMPLI DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘fait accompli’’ means a sce-
nario in which the People’s Republic of
China uses force to rapidly seize territory of
Taiwan and subsequently threatens further
escalation, potentially including use of nu-
clear weapons, to deter an effective response
by the Armed Forces and allied and partner
military forces.
SA 683. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 12ll. REPORT ON IMPROVEMENTS TO DE-
TERRENCE EFFORTS WITH RESPECT
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the Commander of the United States
European Command, shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report de-
tailing efforts to improve the ability of the
Armed Forces and North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization forces to deny the ability of the
Russian Federation to execute a fait
accompli against one or more Baltic allies.
(b) MATTER TO BE INCLUDED.—The report
under subsection (a) shall identify
prioritized requirements for further improv-
ing the ability of the Armed Forces and
North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces to
deny the ability of the Russian Federation to
execute a fait accompli against one or more
Baltic allies.
(c) FORM.—The report under subsection (a)
shall—
(1) be submitted in classified form; and
(2) include an unclassified summary appro-
priate for release to the public.
(d) FAIT ACCOMPLI DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘fait accompli’’ means a sce-
nario in which the Russian Federation uses
force to rapidly seize territory of one or
more Baltic allies and subsequently threat-
ens further escalation, potentially including
use of nuclear weapons, to deter an effective
response by the Armed Forces and North At-
lantic Treaty Organization forces.
SA 684. Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Ms. CANTWELL) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to
the bill S. 1790, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title X, insert
the following:
SEC. lll. REPORT ON APPRENTICESHIPS AND
ON-THE-JOB TRAINING FOR MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND
VETERANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in collaboration
with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and
Secretary of Labor, shall submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.061 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3695
June 18, 2019
the efforts of the Department of Defense to
promote the utilization of apprenticeships
and on-the-job training by members of the
Armed Forces transitioning from service in
the Armed Forces to civilian life.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of outreach efforts to
members of the Armed Forces with respect
to the job training, employment skills train-
ing, apprenticeships, internships, and
SkillBridge initiatives of the Department,
including recommendations by the Secretary
of Defense on ways in which such efforts
could be improved.
(2) An assessment of utilization rates of
the initiatives referred to in paragraph (1),
disaggregated by military department.
(3) An explanation of efforts undertaken by
the Secretary of Defense to coordinate and
collaborate with the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs with respect to apprenticeships and
on-the-job training in order to maximize uti-
lization of job training and education pro-
grams provided under laws administered by
either the Secretary of Defense or the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, including efforts
to highlight apprenticeship and on-the-job
training opportunities in the Transition As-
sistance Program.
(4) Recommendations for legislative or ad-
ministrative action to improve awareness,
access, and utilization of apprenticeships and
on-the-job training programs by members of
the Armed Forces and veterans who have re-
cently transitioned from service in the
Armed Forces to civilian life.
(c) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES
OF CONGRESS.—In this section, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the congressional defense committees;
(2) the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate; and
(3) Committee on Education and Labor and
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
SA 685. Mr. DURBIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title VIII, add
the following:
SEC. 811. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES PURSU-
ANT TO MATERIEL DEVELOPMENT
DECISIONS.
(a) TIMELINE.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall update existing
guidance for analyses of alternatives con-
ducted pursuant to a materiel development
decision for a major defense acquisition pro-
gram to incorporate the following:
(1) Study completion within nine months.
(2) Study guidance issued by the Director,
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation of
a scope designed to provide for reasonable
completion of the study within the nine-
month period.
(3) Procedures for waiver of the timeline
requirements of this subsection on a case-by-
case basis if—
(A) the subject of the analysis is of ex-
treme technical complexity;
(B) collection of additional intelligence is
required to inform the analysis;
(C) insufficient technical expertise is avail-
able to complete the analysis; or
(D) the Secretary determines that there
other sufficient reasons for delay of the anal-
ysis.
(b) REPORTING.—If an analysis of alter-
natives cannot be completed within the al-
lotted time, or a waiver is used, the Sec-
retary shall report to the congressional de-
fense committees the following information:
(1) For a waiver, the basis for use of the
waivers, including the reasons why the study
cannot be completed within the allotted
time.
(2) For a study estimated to take more
than nine months—
(A) an estimate of when the analysis will
be completed;
(B) an estimate of any additional costs to
complete the analysis; and
(C) other relevant information pertaining
to the analysis and its completion.
SA 686. Mr. PETERS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. PILOT PROGRAM TO IMPROVE PUB-
LIC-PRIVATE CYBERSECURITY
OPERATIONAL COLLABORATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees and leadership’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the
Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee
on Armed Services, the Select Committee on
Intelligence, the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations, the majority leader, and the minor-
ity leader of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives, the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, the Committee on
Armed Services, the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence, the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, the Speaker, and the minor-
ity leader of the House of Representatives;
(2) the term ‘‘appropriate Federal agen-
cies’’ means—
(A) the Department of Homeland Security;
and
(B) any other agency, as determined by the
Secretary;
(3) the term ‘‘collaboration effort’’ means
an effort undertaken by the appropriate Fed-
eral agencies and 1 or more non-Federal enti-
ties under the pilot program in order to
carry out the purpose of the pilot program;
(4) the term ‘‘critical infrastructure’’ has
the meaning given that term in section
1016(e) of the USA PATRIOT Act (42 U.S.C.
5195c(e));
(5) the term ‘‘cybersecurity provider’’
means a non-Federal entity that provides cy-
bersecurity services to another non-Federal
entity;
(6) the term ‘‘cybersecurity threat’’ means
a cybersecurity threat, as defined in section
102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing
Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501), that affects—
(A) the national security of the United
States; or
(B) critical infrastructure in the United
States;
(7) the term ‘‘malicious cyber actor’’
means an entity that poses a cybersecurity
threat;
(8) the term ‘‘non-Federal entity’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 102 of the
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of
2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501); and
(9) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.—Not later
than 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with
the heads of the appropriate Federal agen-
cies, may establish a pilot program under
which the appropriate Federal agencies, as
coordinated and facilitated by the Secretary,
may identify and partner with nonprofit cy-
bersecurity organizations capable of ena-
bling near real-time information sharing of
cybersecurity threats among cybersecurity
providers in order to coordinate and magnify
Federal and non-Federal efforts to prevent or
disrupt cybersecurity threats or malicious
cyber actors, by, as appropriate—
(1) sharing information relating to poten-
tial actions by the Federal Government
against cybersecurity threats or malicious
cyber actors with non-Federal entities;
(2) facilitating joint planning between the
appropriate Federal agencies and non-Fed-
eral entities relating to cybersecurity
threats or malicious cyber actors; and
(3) synchronizing activities of the Federal
Government against cybersecurity threats or
malicious cyber actors of—
(A) the non-Federal entities with which in-
formation is shared under paragraph (1); and
(B) the non-Federal entities with which
joint planning is carried out under paragraph
(2).
(c) FEDERAL COORDINATION.—The Secretary
shall facilitate all Federal coordination,
planning, and action relating to the pilot
program.
(d) ANNUAL REPORTS TO APPROPRIATE CON-
GRESSIONAL COMMITTEES AND LEADERSHIP.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, and each
year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership a report on the collaboration
efforts carried out during the year for which
the report is submitted, which shall in-
clude—
(A) a statement of the total number col-
laboration efforts carried out during the
year;
(B) with respect to each collaboration ef-
fort carried out during the year—
(i) a statement of—
(I) the identity of any malicious cyber
actor that, as a result of a cybersecurity
threat that the malicious cyber actor en-
gaged in or was likely to engage in, was a
subject of the collaboration effort;
(II) the responsibilities under the collabo-
ration effort of each appropriate Federal
agency and each non-Federal entity that
participated in the collaboration effort; and
(III) whether the goal of the collaboration
effort was achieved; and
(ii) a description of how each appropriate
Federal agency and each non-Federal entity
that participated in the collaboration effort
collaborated in carrying out the collabora-
tion effort; and
(C) a description of—
(i) the ways in which the collaboration ef-
forts carried out during the year—
(I) were successful; and
(II) could have been improved; and
(ii) how the Secretary will improve col-
laboration efforts carried out on or after the
date on which the report is submitted.
(2) FORM.—Any report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(e) TERMINATION.—The pilot program shall
terminate on the date that is 3 years after
the date of enactment of this Act.
(f) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
section shall be construed to—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.062 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3696 June 18, 2019
(1) authorize a non-Federal entity to en-
gage in any activity in violation of section
1030(a) of title 18, United States Code; or
(2) limit an appropriate Federal agency or
a non-Federal entity from engaging in a law-
ful activity.
SA 687. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title XII, add the following:
Subtitle H—Eastern Mediterranean Security
and Energy Partnership
SEC. 1291. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Eastern
Mediterranean Security and Energy Partner-
ship Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 1292. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The security of partners and allies in
the Eastern Mediterranean region is critical
to the security of the United States and Eu-
rope.
(2) Greece is a valuable member of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
and a key pillar of stability in the Eastern
Mediterranean.
(3) Israel is a steadfast ally of the United
States and has been designated a ‘‘major
non-NATO ally’’ and ‘‘major strategic part-
ner’’.
(4) Cyprus is a key strategic partner and
signed a Statement of Intent with the United
States on November 6, 2018, to enhance bilat-
eral security cooperation.
(5) The countries of Greece, Cyprus, and
Israel have participated in critical trilateral
summits to improve cooperation on energy
and security issues.
(6) Secretary of State Mike Pompeo par-
ticipated in the trilateral summit among
Israel, Greece, and Cyprus on March 20, 2019.
(7) All four countries oppose any action in
the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean
Sea that could challenge stability, violate
international law, or undermine good neigh-
borly relations, and in a joint declaration on
March 21, 2019, agreed to ‘‘defend against ex-
ternal malign influences in the Eastern Med-
iterranean and the broader Middle East’’.
(8) The recent discovery of potentially the
region’s largest natural gas field off the
Egyptian coast and the newest discoveries of
natural gas off the Cypriot coast could rep-
resent a significant positive development for
the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle
East, enhancing the region’s strategic en-
ergy significance.
(9) Turkish government officials have ex-
pressed an intent to purchase the S–400 sys-
tem from the Russian Federation, which
could trigger the imposition of mandatory
sanctions under the Countering America’s
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Public
Law 115–44).
(10) It is in the national security interests
of the United States to promote, achieve,
and maintain energy security among, and
through cooperation with, allies.
(11) Natural gas developments in the East-
ern Mediterranean have the potential to pro-
vide economic gains and contribute to en-
ergy security in the region and Europe, as
well as support European efforts to diversify
away from natural gas supplied by the Rus-
sian Federation.
(12) The soon to be completed Trans Adri-
atic Pipeline is a critical component of the
Southern Gas Corridor and the European
Union’s efforts to diversify energy resources.
(13) The proposed Eastern Mediterranean
pipeline if commercially viable would pro-
vide for energy diversification in accordance
with the European Union’s third energy
package of reforms.
(14) The United States acknowledges the
achievements and importance of the Bina-
tional Industrial Research and Development
Foundation (BIRD) and the United States-
Israel Binational Science Foundation (BSF)
and supports continued multiyear funding to
ensure the continuity of the programs of the
Foundations.
(15) The United States has welcomed
Greece’s allocation of 2 percent of its gross
domestic product (GDP) to defense in accord-
ance with commitments made at the 2014
NATO Summit in Wales.
(16) Energy exploration in the Eastern
Mediterranean region must be safeguarded
against threats posed by terrorist and ex-
tremist groups, including Hezbollah and any
other actor in the region.
(17) The energy exploration in the Republic
of Cyprus’s Exclusive Economic Zone and
territorial waters—
(A) furthers United States interests by pro-
viding a potential alternative to Russian gas
for United States allies and partners; and
(B) should not be impeded by other sov-
ereign states.
(18) The United States Government cooper-
ates closely with the Government of the Re-
public of Cyprus through information shar-
ing agreements.
(19) United States officials have assisted
the Government of the Republic of Cyprus
with crafting that nation’s national security
strategy.
(20) The United States Government pro-
vides training to Cypriot officials in areas
such as cybersecurity, counterterrorism, and
explosive ordnance disposal and stockpile
management.
(21) The Republic of Cyprus is a valued
member of the Proliferation Security Initia-
tive to combat the trafficking of weapons of
mass destruction.
(22) The Republic of Cyprus continues to
work closely with the United Nations and re-
gional partners in Europe to combat ter-
rorism and violent extremism.
(23) Despite robust economic and security
relations with the United States, the Repub-
lic of Cyprus has been subject to a United
States prohibition on the export of defense
articles and services since 1987.
(24) The 1987 arms prohibition was designed
to restrict United States arms sales and
transfer to the Republic of Cyprus and the
occupied part of Cyprus to avoid hindering
reunification efforts.
(25) At least 40,000 Turkish troops are sta-
tioned in the occupied part of Cyprus with
some weapons procured from the United
States through mainland Turkey.
(26) While the United States has, as a mat-
ter of policy, avoided the provision of de-
fense articles and services to the Republic of
Cyprus, the Government of Cyprus has, in
the past, sought to obtain defense articles
from other countries, including countries,
such as Russia, that pose challenges to
United States interests around the world.
SEC. 1293. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States—
(1) to continue to actively participate in
the trilateral dialogue on energy, maritime
security, cyber security and protection of
critical infrastructure conducted among
Israel, Greece and Cyprus;
(2) to support diplomatic efforts with part-
ners and allies to deepen energy security co-
operation among Greece, Cyprus, and Israel
and to encourage the private sector to make
investments in energy infrastructure in the
Eastern Mediterranean region;
(3) to strongly support the completion of
the Trans Adriatic and Eastern Mediterra-
nean Pipelines and the establishment of
liquified natural gas (LNG) terminals across
the Eastern Mediterranean as a means of di-
versifying regional energy needs away from
the Russian Federation;
(4) to maintain a robust United States
naval presence and investments in the naval
facility at Souda Bay, Greece and develop
deeper security cooperation with the latter
to include the recent MQ–9 deployments to
the Larissa Air Force Base and United
States Army helicopter training in central
Greece;
(5) to welcome Greece’s commitment to
move forward with the Interconnector
Greece-Bulgaria (IGB pipeline) and addi-
tional LNG terminals that will help facili-
tate delivery of non-Russian gas to the Bal-
kans and central Europe;
(6) to support deepened security coopera-
tion with the Republic of Cyprus through the
removal of the arms embargo on the coun-
try;
(7) to support robust International Mili-
tary Education and Training (IMET) pro-
gramming with Greece and the Republic of
Cyprus;
(8) to leverage relationships within the Eu-
ropean Union to encourage investments in
Cypriot border and maritime security;
(9) to support efforts to counter Russian
Federation Government interference and in-
fluence in the Eastern Mediterranean
through increased security cooperation with
Greece, Cyprus, and Israel, to include intel-
ligence sharing, cyber, and maritime domain
awareness;
(10) to support the Republic of Cyprus ef-
forts to regulate its banking industry to en-
sure that it is not used as a source of inter-
national money laundering and encourages
additional measures toward that end;
(11) to strongly oppose any actions that
would trigger mandatory sanctions pursuant
to section 231 of the Countering America’s
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act
(CAATSA) (Public Law 115–44), to include the
purchase by Turkey of an S–400 system from
the Russian Federation;
(12) to continue robust official strategic
engagement with Israel, Greece, and Cyprus;
(13) to urge countries in the region to deny
port services to the Russian Federation ves-
sels deployed to support the government of
Bashar Al-Assad in Syria;
(14) to support joint military exercises
among Israel, Greece, and Cyprus;
(15) to fully implement relevant CAATSA
provisions to prevent interference by the
Government of the Russian Federation in
the region;
(16) to support efforts by countries in the
region to demobilize military equipment
supplied by the Government of the Russian
Federation in favor of equipment provided
by NATO and NATO-allied member coun-
tries; and
(17) to strongly support the active and ro-
bust participation of Israel, Cyprus, and
Greece in the Combating Terrorism Fellow-
ship Program.
SEC. 1294. UNITED STATES-EASTERN MEDITERRA-
NEAN ENERGY COOPERATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of En-
ergy, may enter into cooperative agreements
supporting and enhancing dialogue and plan-
ning involving international partnerships be-
tween the United States and Israel, Greece,
and Cyprus.
(b) ANNUAL REPORTS.—If the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of
Energy, enters into agreements authorized
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.062 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3697
June 18, 2019
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall sub-
mit an annual report to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that describes—
(1) actions taken to implement such agree-
ments; and
(2) any projects undertaken pursuant to
such agreements.
(c) UNITED STATES-EASTERN MEDITERRA-
NEAN ENERGY CENTER.—The Secretary of En-
ergy, in consultation with the Secretary of
State, may establish a joint United States-
Eastern Mediterranean Energy Center in the
United States leveraging the experience,
knowledge, and expertise of institutions of
higher education and entities in the private
sector, among others, in offshore energy de-
velopment to further dialogue and collabora-
tion to develop more robust academic co-
operation in energy innovation technology
and engineering, water science, technology
transfer, and analysis of emerging geo-
political implications, which include oppor-
tunities as well as crises and threats from
foreign natural resource and energy acquisi-
tions.
SEC. 1295. REPEAL OF PROHIBITION ON TRANS-
FER OF ARTICLES ON THE UNITED
STATES MUNITIONS LIST TO THE RE-
PUBLIC OF CYPRUS.
(a) SENSE OF THE SENATE ON CYPRUS.—It is
the sense of the Senate that—
(1) allowing for the export, re-export, or
transfer of arms subject to the United States
Munitions List (part 121 of title 22, Code of
Federal Regulations) to the Republic of Cy-
prus would advance United States security
interests in Europe by helping to reduce the
dependence of the Government of the Repub-
lic of Cyprus on other countries, including
countries that pose challenges to United
States interests around the world, for de-
fense-related materiel; and
(2) it is in the interest of the United
States—
(A) to continue to support United Nations-
facilitated efforts toward a comprehensive
solution to the division of Cyprus; and
(B) for the Republic of Cyprus to join
NATO’s Partnership for Peace program.
(b) MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION.—Section
620C(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
(22 U.S.C. 2373(e)) is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) The requirement under paragraph (1)
shall not apply to any sale or other provision
of any defense article or service to Cyprus if
the end-user of such defense article or serv-
ice is the Republic of Cyprus.’’.
(c) EXCLUSION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS FROM CERTAIN RELATED
REGULATIONS.—Beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State shall not apply a policy of denial for
exports, re-exports, or transfers of defense
articles and defense services destined for the
Republic of Cyprus if—
(1) the request is made by or on behalf of
the Republic of Cyprus; and
(2) the end-user of such defense articles or
defense services is the Republic of Cyprus.
(d) LIMITATIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF ARTI-
CLES ON THE UNITED STATES MUNITIONS LIST
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The policy of denial for
exports, re-exports, or transfers of defense
articles on the United States Munitions List
to the Republic of Cyprus shall remain in
place unless the President determines and
certifies to the appropriate committees of
Congress not less than annually that—
(A) the Government of the Republic of Cy-
prus is continuing to cooperate with the
United States Government in efforts to im-
plement reforms on anti-money laundering
regulations and financial regulatory over-
sight; and
(B) the Government of the Republic of Cy-
prus has made and is continuing to take the
steps necessary to deny Russian military
vessels access to ports for refueling and serv-
icing.
(2) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
limitations contained in this subsection for
one fiscal year if the President determines
that it is essential to the national security
interests of the United States to do so.
(3) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives.
SEC. 1296. IMET COOPERATION WITH GREECE
AND CYPRUS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
fiscal year 2020 $2,000,000 for International
Military Education and Training (IMET) as-
sistance for Greece and $2,000,000 for such as-
sistance for Cyprus. The assistance shall be
made available for the following purposes:
(1) Training of future leaders.
(2) Fostering a better understanding of the
United States.
(3) Establishing a rapport between the
United States military and the country’s
military to build alliances for the future.
(4) Enhancement of interoperability and
capabilities for joint operations.
(5) Focusing on professional military edu-
cation.
(6) Enabling countries to use their national
funds to receive a reduced cost for other De-
partment of Defense education and training.
(7) Provision of English Language Training
assistance.
SEC. 1297. FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
fiscal year 2020 $3,000,000 for Foreign Military
Financing (FMF) assistance for Greece to as-
sist the country in meeting its commitment
as a member of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) to dedicate 20 percent
of its defense budget to enhance research and
development.
SEC. 1298. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF F–35
AIRCRAFT TO TURKEY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided under
subsection (b), no funds may be obligated or
expended—
(1) to transfer, facilitate the transfer, or
authorize the transfer of, an F–35 aircraft to
the Republic of Turkey;
(2) to transfer intellectual property or
technical data necessary for or related to
any maintenance or support of the F–35 air-
craft; or
(3) to construct a storage facility for, or
otherwise facilitate the storage in Turkey of,
an F–35 aircraft transferred to Turkey.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The President may waive
the limitation under subsection (a) upon a
written certification to Congress that the
Government of Turkey does not plan or in-
tend to accept delivery of the S–400 air de-
fense system.
(c) TRANSFER DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘transfer’’ includes the physical re-
location outside of the continental United
States.
(d) APPLICABILITY.—The limitation under
subsection (a) does not apply to F–35 aircraft
operated by the United States Armed Forces.
SEC. 1299. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON PURCHASE
BY TURKEY OF S–400 AIR DEFENSE
SYSTEM.
It is the sense of the Senate that, if the
Government of Turkey purchases the S–400
air defense system from the Russian Federa-
tion—
(1) such a purchase would constitute a sig-
nificant transaction within the meaning of
section 231(a) of the Countering Russian In-
fluence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 (22
U.S.C. 9525(a));
(2) such a purchase would endanger the in-
tegrity of the NATO alliance;
(3) such a purchase would adversely affect
ongoing operations of the United States
Armed Forces, including coalition oper-
ations in which the United States Armed
Forces participate;
(4) such a purchase would result in a sig-
nificant impact to defense cooperation be-
tween the United States and Turkey;
(5) such a purchase would significantly in-
crease the risk of compromising United
States defense systems and operational capa-
bilities; and
(6) the President should faithfully execute
the Countering Russian Influence in Europe
and Eurasia Act of 2017 by imposing and ap-
plying sanctions under section 235 of that
Act (22 U.S.C. 9529) with respect to any indi-
vidual or entity determined to have engaged
in such a significant transaction.
SEC. 1299A. STRATEGY ON UNITED STATES SECU-
RITY AND ENERGY COOPERATION IN
THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary
of Energy, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a strategy on en-
hanced security and energy cooperation with
countries in the Eastern Mediterranean re-
gion, including Israel, Cyprus, and Greece.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(1) A description of United States partici-
pation in and support for the Eastern Medi-
terranean Natural Gas Forum.
(2) An evaluation of all possible delivery
mechanisms into Europe for natural gas dis-
coveries in the Eastern Mediterranean re-
gion.
(3) An evaluation of efforts to protect en-
ergy exploration infrastructure in the re-
gion, including United States companies.
(4) An assessment of the capacity of Cyprus
to host an Energy Crisis Center in the region
which could provide basing facilities in sup-
port search and rescue efforts in the event of
an accident.
(5) An assessment of the timing of natural
gas delivery in the region as well as assess-
ment of the ultimate destination countries
for the natural gas delivery from the region.
(6) A plan to work with United States busi-
nesses seeking to invest in Eastern Medi-
terranean energy exploration, development,
and cooperation.
(c) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 1299B. REPORT ON RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MALIGN INFLUENCE IN THE EAST-
ERN MEDITERRANEAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port on Russian Federation malign influence
in Cyprus, Greece, and Israel since January
1, 2017.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(1) An assessment of security, political,
and energy goals of the Government of the
Russian Federation in the Eastern Medi-
terranean.
(2) A description of energy projects of the
Government of the Russian Federation in
the Eastern Mediterranean.
(3) A listing of Russian national ownership
of media outlets in these countries, includ-
ing the name of the media outlet, approxi-
mate viewership, and assessment of whether
the outlet promotes pro-Kremlin views.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.078 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3698 June 18, 2019
(4) An assessment of military engagement
by the Government of the Russian Federa-
tion in the security sector, including engage-
ment by military equipment and personnel
contractors.
(5) An assessment of efforts supported by
the Government of the Russian Federation
to influence elections in the three countries,
through the use of cyber attacks, social
media campaigns, or other malign influence
techniques.
(6) An assessment of efforts by the Govern-
ment of the Russian Federation to intimi-
date and influence the decision by His All
Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bar-
tholomew, leader of 300,000,000 Orthodox
Christians worldwide, to grant autocephaly
to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.
(c) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 1299C. REPORT ON INTERFERENCE BY
OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE EXCLU-
SIVE ECONOMIC ZONE OF CYPRUS
AND AIRSPACE OF GREECE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary
of Energy, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a report listing in-
cidents of interference in efforts by the Re-
public of Cyprus to explore and exploit nat-
ural resources in its Exclusive Economic
Zone and violations of the airspace of the
sovereign territory of Greece.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(1) A listing of incidents since January 1,
2017, determined by the Secretary of State to
interfere in efforts by the Republic of Cyprus
to explore and exploit natural resources in
its Exclusive Economic Zone.
(2) A listing of incidents since January 1,
2017, determined by the Secretary of State to
be violations of the airspace of Greece by its
neighbors.
(c) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 1299D. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL
COMMITTEES.
In this subtitle, the term ‘‘appropriate con-
gressional committees means’’ the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
SA 688. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, and Mr. RISCH) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. GREATER SAGE-GROUSE PROTECTION
AND RECOVERY.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are—
(1) to facilitate implementation of State
management plans over a period of multiple,
consecutive greater sage-grouse life cycles;
and
(2) to demonstrate the efficacy of the State
management plans for the protection and re-
covery of the greater sage-grouse.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FEDERAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
PLAN.—The term ‘‘Federal resource manage-
ment plan’’ means—
(A) a land use plan prepared by the Bureau
of Land Management for public land pursu-
ant to section 202 of the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712);
and
(B) a land and resource management plan
prepared by the Forest Service for National
Forest System land pursuant to section 6 of
the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Re-
sources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604).
(2) GREATER SAGE-GROUSE.—The term
‘‘greater sage-grouse’’ means a sage-grouse
of the species Centrocercus urophasianus.
(3) STATE MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term
‘‘State management plan’’ means a State-ap-
proved plan for the protection and recovery
of the greater sage-grouse.
(c) PROTECTION AND RECOVERY OF GREATER
SAGE-GROUSE.—
(1) ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT OF 1973 FIND-
INGS.—
(A) DELAY REQUIRED.—The Secretary of the
Interior may not modify or invalidate the
finding of the Director of the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service announced in the
proposed rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 12-Month
Finding on a Petition to List Greater Sage-
Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) as an
Endangered or Threatened Species’’ (80 Fed.
Reg. 59858 (October 2, 2015)) during the period
beginning on the date of enactment of this
Act and ending on September 30, 2029.
(B) EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.—The delay re-
quired under subparagraph (A) is and shall
remain effective without regard to any other
statute, regulation, court order, legal settle-
ment, or any other provision of law or in eq-
uity.
(C) EFFECT ON CONSERVATION STATUS.—The
conservation status of the greater sage-
grouse shall be considered not to warrant
listing of the greater sage-grouse as an en-
dangered species or threatened species under
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C.
1531 et seq.) during the period beginning on
the date of enactment of this Act and ending
on September 30, 2029.
(2) COORDINATION OF FEDERAL LAND MAN-
AGEMENT AND STATE CONSERVATION AND MAN-
AGEMENT PLANS.—
(A) PROHIBITION ON WITHDRAWAL AND MODI-
FICATION OF FEDERAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
PLANS.—On notification by the Governor of a
State with a State management plan, the
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary
of Agriculture may not make, modify, or ex-
tend any withdrawal or amend or otherwise
modify any Federal resource management
plan applicable to Federal land in the State
in a manner inconsistent with the State
management plan for, as specified by the
Governor in the notification, a period of not
fewer than 5 years beginning on the date of
the notification.
(B) RETROACTIVE EFFECT.—In the case of
any State that provides notification under
subparagraph (A), if any withdrawal was
made, modified, or extended or any amend-
ment or modification of a Federal resource
management plan applicable to Federal land
in the State was issued after June 1, 2014,
and the withdrawal, amendment, or modi-
fication altered the management of the
greater sage-grouse or the habitat of the
greater sage-grouse—
(i) implementation and operation of the
withdrawal, amendment, or modification
shall be stayed to the extent that the with-
drawal, amendment, or modification is in-
consistent with the State management plan;
and
(ii) the Federal resource management plan,
as in effect immediately before the with-
drawal, amendment, or modification, shall
apply instead with respect to the manage-
ment of the greater sage-grouse and the
habitat of the greater sage-grouse, to the ex-
tent consistent with the State management
plan.
(C) DETERMINATION OF INCONSISTENCY.—Any
disagreement regarding whether a with-
drawal, amendment, or other modification of
a Federal resource management plan is in-
consistent with a State management plan
shall be resolved by the Governor of the af-
fected State.
(3) RELATION TO NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
POLICY ACT OF 1969.—With regard to any
major Federal action consistent with a State
management plan, any findings, analyses, or
conclusions regarding the greater sage-
grouse and the habitat of the greater sage-
grouse under section 102(2)(C) of the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C.
4332(2)(C)) shall not have a preclusive effect
on the approval or implementation of the
major Federal action in that State.
(4) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act, and annually thereafter through
2029, the Secretary of the Interior and the
Secretary of Agriculture shall jointly submit
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources of the Senate and the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives a report describing the imple-
mentation by the Secretaries of, and the ef-
fectiveness of, systems to monitor the status
of greater sage-grouse on Federal land under
the jurisdiction of the Secretaries.
(5) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law (including regula-
tions), this subsection, including any deter-
mination made under paragraph (2)(C), shall
not be subject to judicial review.
SEC. ll. REMOVAL OF ENDANGERED SPECIES
STATUS FOR AMERICAN BURYING
BEETLE.
Notwithstanding the final rule of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service enti-
tled ‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife
and Plants; Determination of Endangered
Status for the American Burying Beetle’’ (54
Fed. Reg. 29652 (July 13, 1989)), the American
burying beetle may not be listed as a threat-
ened species or an endangered species under
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C.
1531 et seq.).
SA 689. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
ROMNEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. LAND CONVEYANCE, HILL AIR FORCE
BASE, OGDEN, UTAH.
(a) CONVEYANCE REQUIRED.—The Secretary
of the Air Force may convey, for no mone-
tary consideration, to the State of Utah or a
designee of the State of Utah (in this section
referred to as the ‘‘State’’) all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to a
parcel of real property, including improve-
ments thereon, consisting of approximately
35 acres located at Hill Air Force Base com-
monly known as the ‘‘Defense Nontactical
Generator and Rail Center’’ and such real
property adjacent to the Center as the par-
ties consider to be appropriate, for the pur-
pose of permitting the State to construct a
new interchange for Interstate 15.
(b) CONDITION PRECEDENT.—The convey-
ance authorized by subsection (a) shall be
contingent upon the relocation of the De-
fense Nontactical Generator and Rail Center.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.078 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3699
June 18, 2019
(c) TERMINATION AND REENTRY.—If the
State does not meet the conditions required
under subsection (d) by the date that is five
years after the date of the conveyance au-
thorized by subsection (a), the Secretary of
the Air Force may terminate such convey-
ance and reenter the property.
(d) CONSIDERATION AND CONDITIONS OF CON-
VEYANCE.—In consideration of and as a con-
dition to the conveyance authorized by sub-
section (a), the State shall agree to the fol-
lowing:
(1) Not later than two years after the con-
veyance, the State shall, at no cost to the
United States Government—
(A) demolish all improvements and associ-
ated infrastructure existing on the property;
and
(B) conduct environmental cleanup and re-
mediation of the property, as required by law
and approved by the Utah Department of En-
vironmental Quality, for the planned rede-
velopment and use of the property.
(2) Not later than three years after the
completion of the cleanup and remediation
under paragraph (1)(B), the State, at no cost
to the United States Government, shall con-
struct on Hill Air Force Base a new gate for
vehicular and pedestrian traffic in and out of
Hill Air Force Base in compliance with all
applicable construction and security require-
ments and such other requirements as the
Secretary of the Air Force may consider nec-
essary.
(3) That the State shall coordinate the
demolition, cleanup, remediation, design, re-
development, and construction activities
performed pursuant to the conveyance under
subsection (a) with the Secretary of the Air
Force, the Utah Department of Transpor-
tation, and the Utah Department of Environ-
mental Quality.
(e) ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS.—The
State shall not have any obligation with re-
spect to cleanup and remediation of an envi-
ronmental condition on the property to be
conveyed under subsection (a) unless the
condition was in existence and known before
the date of the conveyance or the State exac-
erbates the condition which then requires
further remediation.
(f) PAYMENT OF COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—
(1) PAYMENT REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
the Air Force shall require the State to
cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary,
or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs
incurred, to carry out the conveyance under
subsection (a), including survey costs, costs
for environmental documentation, and other
administrative costs related to the convey-
ance. If amounts are collected from the
State in advance of the Secretary incurring
actual costs, and the amount collected ex-
ceeds the costs actually incurred by the Sec-
retary to carry out the conveyance, the Sec-
retary shall refund the excess amount to the
State.
(2) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—
Amounts received as reimbursement under
paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or
account that was used to cover the costs in-
curred by the Secretary in carrying out the
conveyance under subsection (a) or to an ap-
propriate fund or account currently avail-
able to the Secretary for the purposes for
which the costs were paid. Amounts so cred-
ited shall be merged with amounts in such
fund or account and shall be available for the
same purposes, and subject to the same con-
ditions and limitations, as amounts in such
fund or account.
(g) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY.—The exact
acreage and legal description of the property
to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be
determined by a survey satisfactory to the
Secretary of the Air Force and the State.
SA 690. Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr.
PAUL, Mr. CRAMER, and Mr. BRAUN)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by her to the bill S. 1790, to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1086. ANNUAL REPORTS ON FEDERAL
PROJECTS THAT ARE OVER BUDGET
AND BEHIND SCHEDULE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘covered agency’’ means—
(A) an Executive agency, as defined in sec-
tion 105 of title 5, United States Code; and
(B) an independent regulatory agency, as
defined in section 3502 of title 44, United
States Code.
(2) The term ‘‘project’’ includes any pro-
gram, project, or activity other than a pro-
gram, project, or activity funded by manda-
tory spending.
(b) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
every year thereafter, the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget shall submit
to Congress and post on the website of the
Office of Management and Budget a report
on each project funded by a covered agency—
(1) that is more than 5 years behind sched-
ule; or
(2) for which the amount spent on the
project is not less than $1,000,000,000 more
than the original cost estimate for the
project.
(c) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted and
posted under subsection (b) shall include, for
each project included in the report—
(1) a brief description of the project, in-
cluding—
(A) the purpose of the project;
(B) each location in which the project is
carried out;
(C) the year in which the project was initi-
ated;
(D) the Federal share of the total cost of
the project; and
(E) each primary contractor, subcon-
tractor, grant recipient, and subgrantee re-
cipient of the project;
(2) an explanation of any change to the
original scope of the project, including by
the addition or narrowing of the initial re-
quirements of the project;
(3) the original expected date for comple-
tion of the project;
(4) the current expected date for comple-
tion of the project;
(5) the original cost estimate for the
project, as adjusted to reflect increases in
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Con-
sumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics;
(6) the current cost estimate for the
project, as adjusted to reflect increases in
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Con-
sumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics;
(7) an explanation for a delay in comple-
tion or increase in the original cost estimate
for the project; and
(8) the amount of and rationale for any
award, incentive fee, or other type of bonus,
if any, awarded for the project.
(d) SUBMISSION WITH BUDGET.—Section
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(40) the report required under section
1086(b) of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 for the calendar year
ending in the fiscal year in which the budget
is submitted.’’.
SA 691. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and
Mr. REED) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title IX, add the
following:
SEC. 906. ALLOCATION OF FORMER RESPON-
SIBILITIES OF THE UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISI-
TION, TECHNOLOGY, AND LOGIS-
TICS.
(a) TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.—Title
10, United States Code, is amended as fol-
lows:
(1) In section 129a(c)(3), by striking ‘‘The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(2) In section 134(c), by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(3) In section 139—
(A) in subsection (b)—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘and the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logis-
tics’’ and inserting ‘‘, the Under Secretary of
Defense for Research and Engineering, and
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘,
the Under Secretary of Defense for Research
and Engineering, the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment,’’;
(B) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering, the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment,’’; and
(C) in subsection (h)(2), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering, the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment’’.
(4) In section 139a(d)(6), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering, the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment,’’.
(5) In section 171(a)—
(A) by striking paragraphs (3) and (8);
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6),
(7), (9), (10), (11), (12), and (13) as paragraphs
(5), (6), (7), (8), (11), (12), (13), (14), and(15), re-
spectively;
(C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(3) the Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering;
‘‘(4) the Under Secretary of Defense of Ac-
quisition and Sustainment;’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.092 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3700 June 18, 2019
(D) by inserting after paragraph (8), as re-
designated by subparagraph (B), the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(9) the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering;
‘‘(10) the Deputy Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment;’’.
(6) In section 181(d)(1)—
(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (D)
through (G) as subparagraphs (E) through
(H), respectively;
(B) by striking subparagraph (C); and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Research and Engineering.
‘‘(D) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment.’’.
(7) In section 393(b)(2)—
(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (C)
through (E) as subparagraphs (D) through
(F), respectively;
(B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Research and Engineering.
‘‘(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment.’’.
(8)(A) In section 1702—
(i) by striking the heading and inserting
the following:
‘‘§ 1702. Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment: authorities and
responsibilities’’; and
(ii) in the text, by striking ‘‘the Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’.
(B) The table of sections at the beginning
of subchapter I of chapter 87 is amended by
striking the item relating to section 1702 and
inserting the following new item:
‘‘1702. Under Secretary of Defense for Acqui-
sition and Sustainment: au-
thorities and responsibilities.’’.
(9) In section 1705, by striking ‘‘Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(10) In section 1722, by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(11) In section 1722a, by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(12) In section 1722b(a), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(13) In section 1723, by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(14) In section 1725(e)(2), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(15) In section 1735(c)(1), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(16) In section 1737(c), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(17) In section 1741(b), by striking ‘‘The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(18) In section 1746(a), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(19) In section 1748, by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’.
(20) In section 2222, by striking ‘‘Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(21) In section 2272, by striking ‘‘the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Research and Engineer-
ing’’.
(22) In section 2275(a), by striking ‘‘The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(23) In section 2279(d), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(24) In section 2279b—
(A) in subsection (b)—
(i) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through
(10) as paragraphs (4) through (11), respec-
tively;
(ii) by striking paragraph (2); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the
following new paragraphs:
‘‘(2) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Research and Engineering.
‘‘(3) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment.’’; and
(B) in subsection (c) by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering, the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment,’’
(25) In section 2304, by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(26) In section 2306b(i)(7), by striking ‘‘of
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘of
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’.
(27) In section 2311(c), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(28) In section 2326(g), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(29) In section 2330, by striking ‘‘Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(30) In section 2334, by striking ‘‘Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(31) In section 2350a(b)(2), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics, and the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engi-
neering’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary
of Defense for Research and Engineering, and
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(32) In section 2359(b), by striking para-
graph (1) and inserting the following new
paragraph (1):
‘‘(1) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Research and Engineering.’’.
(33) In section 2359b, by striking ‘‘Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering’’.
(34) In section 2365(d)(3)(A), by striking
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion, Technology, and Logistics’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering’’.
(35) In section 2375, by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(36) In section 2399(b)(3)—
(A) by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Lo-
gistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary
of Defense for Research and Engineering, the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and Under Secretary’’ and
inserting ‘‘and the Under Secretaries’’.
(37) In section 2419(a)(1), by striking ‘‘The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(38) In section 2431a(b), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(39) In section 2435, by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(40) In section 2438(b), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology and Logistics’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(41) In section 2503(b)—
(A) by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Lo-
gistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary
of Defense for Research and Engineering and
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary
shall’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretaries
shall’’.
(42) In section 2508(b), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics, acting through
the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Manufacturing and Industrial Base Pol-
icy’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(43) In section 2521, by striking ‘‘Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering’’.
(44) In section 2533b(k)(2)(A), by striking
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion, Technology, and Logistics’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment’’.
(45) In section 2546—
(A) in the heading of subsection (a), by
striking ‘‘UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR
ACQUISITION, TECHNOLOGY, AND LOGISTICS’’
and inserting ‘‘UNDER SECRETARY OF DE-
FENSE FOR ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT’’;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.081 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3701
June 18, 2019
(B) by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Lo-
gistics’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(46) In section 2548, by striking ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(47) In section 2902(b)—
(A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following new paragraph (1):
‘‘(1) The official within the Office of the
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering who is responsible for science
and technology.’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (4)
through (9) as paragraphs (5) through (10), re-
spectively;
(C) by striking paragraph (3); and
(D) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(3) The official within the Office of the
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering who is responsible for environ-
mental security.
‘‘(4) The official within the Office of the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment who is responsible for envi-
ronmental security.’’.
(48) In section 2926(e)(5)(D), by striking
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion, Technology, and Logistics’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment’’.
(b) NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
ACTS.—
(1) PUBLIC LAW 115–232.—Section 338 of the
John S. McCain National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law
115–232; 132 Stat. 1728) is amended by striking
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion, Technology, and Logistics’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment’’.
(2) PUBLIC LAW 115–91.—Section 136(a)(1) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat.
1317) is amended by striking ‘‘the Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’.
(3) PUBLIC LAW 114–328.—The National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017
(Public Law 114–328) is amended as follows:
(A) In section 829(b) (10 U.S.C. 2306 note),
by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(B) In section 874(b)(1) (10 U.S.C. 2375 note),
by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(C) In section 875 (10 U.S.C. 2305 note)—
(i) in subsections (b), (c), (e), and (f), by
striking ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition, Technology, and Logistics’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment’’; and
(ii) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering’’.
(D) In section 898(a)(2)(A) (10 U.S.C. 2302
note), by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Lo-
gistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment’’.
(E) In section 1652(a) (130 Stat. 2609), by
striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering’’.
(F) In section 1689(d) (130 Stat. 2631), by
striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering’’.
(4) PUBLIC LAW 114–92.—The National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016
(Public Law 114–92) is amended as follows:
(A) In section 131 (129 Stat. 754), by strik-
ing ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition, Technology, and Logistics’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment’’.
(B) In section 856(a)(2)(B) (10 U.S.C. 2377
note), by striking ‘‘the Office of the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the Of-
fice of the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(C) In section 1111(b)(1) (10 U.S.C. 1701
note), by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Lo-
gistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment’’.
(D) In section 1675(a) (129 Stat. 1131), by
striking ‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’ and
inserting ‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering’’.
(5) PUBLIC LAW 113–291.—Section 852 of the
Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’ McKeon
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended
by striking ‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’
and inserting ‘‘The Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(6) PUBLIC LAW 112–239.—Section 157(c) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2013 (Public law 112–239; 126 Stat.
1668) is amended by striking ‘‘The Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’.
(7) PUBLIC LAW 112–81.—The National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012
(Public Law 112–81) is amended as follows:
(A) In section 144 (125 Stat. 1325)—
(i) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ‘‘the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research
and Engineering’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engi-
neering’’.
(B) In section 836(a)(2) (22 U.S.C. 2767 note),
by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics,
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering,’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment,’’.
(C) In section 838(2)(B) (125 Stat. 1509), by
striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(8) PUBLIC LAW 111–383.—Section 882(b) of the
Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (10 U.S.C. 2222 note)
is amended by striking ‘‘The Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Acquisition, Tech-
nology, and Logistics’’ and inserting ‘‘The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’.
(9) PUBLIC LAW 110–417.—Section 814 of the
Duncan Hunter National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law
110–417; 122 Stat. 4528) is amended—
(A) in subsection (b)(2)—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B)
through (H) as subparagraphs (C) through (I),
respectively;
(ii) by striking subparagraph (A); and
(iii) by inserting before subparagraph (C),
as redesignated by clause (i), the following
new subparagraphs:
‘‘(A) The Office of the Under Secretary of
Defense for Research and Engineering.
‘‘(B) The Office of the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.’’;
and
(B) in subsection (c)(5), in the flush matter
following subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics certifies to the
congressional defense committees, and in-
cludes’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary
of Defense for Research and Engineering and
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment jointly certify to the
congressional defense committees, and in-
clude’’.
(10) PUBLIC LAW 110–181.—The National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008
(Public Law 110–181) is amended as follows:
(A) In section 231(a) (10 U.S.C. 1701 note),
by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’
and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(B) In section 802(a)(3)(C) (10 U.S.C. 2410p
note), by striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Lo-
gistics’’ and inserting ‘‘the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment’’.
(C) In section 821(a) (10 U.S.C. 2304 note),
by striking ‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’
and inserting ‘‘The Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
(D) In section 2864 (10 U.S.C. 2911 note), by
striking ‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment’’.
(c) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR LEGISLATIVE AC-
TION.—Not later than 14 days after the Presi-
dent submits to Congress the budget for fis-
cal year 2021 pursuant to section 1105 of title
31, United States Code, the Under Secretary
of Defense (Comptroller) shall submit to the
congressional defense committees such rec-
ommendations for legislative action as the
Under Secretary considers appropriate to
implement the recommendations of the re-
port required by section 901 of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132
Stat. 1920).
SA 692. Mr. TILLIS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle G of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1290. NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZA-
TION JOINT FORCES COMMAND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
16 of title 10, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘§ 314 North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Joint Forces Command
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall authorize the establishment of,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.081 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3702 June 18, 2019
and the participation by members of the
armed forces in, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Joint Forces Command (in this
section referred to as the ‘Joint Forces Com-
mand’), to be established in the United
States.
‘‘(b) USE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FA-
CILITIES AND EQUIPMENT.—The Secretary
may use facilities and equipment of the De-
partment of Defense to support the Joint
Forces Command.
‘‘(c) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Amounts ap-
propriated to the Department of Defense for
fiscal year 2020 shall be available to carry
out the purposes of this section.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter II of
chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new item:
‘‘314. North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Joint Forces Command.’’.
SA 693. Mr. ROMNEY (for himself
and Mr. CORNYN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2. PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION OF E–
VERIFY.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Permanent E-Verify Act’’.
(b) PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION OF E–
VERIFY.—Section 401 of the Illegal Immigra-
tion Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1324a note) is amended—
(1) by amending the section heading to
read as follows: ‘‘E–VERIFY PROGRAM’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘; TERMINATION’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Unless the Congress other-
wise provides, the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity shall terminate a pilot program on
September 30, 2015.’’.
SA 694. Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
TOOMEY, and Mr. JONES) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 318(a), add at the end the fol-
lowing:
(3) OTHER AUTHORITY.—In addition to the
requirements under paragraph (1), when oth-
erwise authorized to expend funds for the
purpose of addressing ground or surface
water contaminated by a perfluorinated
compound, the Secretary of Defense may, to
expend those funds, enter into a grant agree-
ment, cooperative agreement, or contract
with—
(A) the local water authority with jurisdic-
tion over the contamination site, including—
(i) a public water system (as defined in sec-
tion 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300f)); and
(ii) a publicly owned treatment works (as
defined in section 212 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1292)); or
(B) a State, local, or Tribal government.
At the end of division A, add the following:
TITLE XVII—PFAS RELEASE DISCLOSURE,
DETECTION, AND SAFE DRINKING
WATER ASSISTANCE
SEC. 1701. DEFINITION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
In this title, the term ‘‘Administrator’’
means the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
Subtitle A—PFAS Release Disclosure
SEC. 1711. ADDITIONS TO TOXICS RELEASE IN-
VENTORY.
(a) DEFINITION OF TOXICS RELEASE INVEN-
TORY.—In this section, the term ‘‘toxics re-
lease inventory’’ means the toxics release in-
ventory under section 313(c) of the Emer-
gency Planning and Community Right-To-
Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c)).
(b) IMMEDIATE INCLUSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (e),
beginning January 1 of the calendar year fol-
lowing the date of enactment of this Act, the
following chemicals shall be deemed to be in-
cluded in the toxics release inventory:
(A) Perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘‘PFOA’’) (Chemical Abstracts
Service No. 335–67–1).
(B) The salt associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (A) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 3825–26–1).
(C) Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (com-
monly referred to as ‘‘PFOS’’) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 1763–23–1).
(D) The salts associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (C) (Chemical Ab-
stract Service Nos. 45298–90–6, 29457–72–5,
56773–42–3, 29081–56–9, 4021–47–0, 111873–33–7,
and 91036–71–4).
(E) A perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances that is—
(i) listed as an active chemical substance
in the February 2019 update to the inventory
under section 8(b)(1) of the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(b)(1)); and
(ii) on the date of enactment of this Act,
subject to the provisions of—
(I) section 721.9582 of title 40, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations; or
(II) section 721.10536 of title 40, Code of
Federal Regulations.
(2) THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the threshold for reporting the chemi-
cals described in paragraph (1) under section
313(f)(1) of the Emergency Planning and
Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42
U.S.C. 11023(f)(1)) is 100 pounds.
(B) REVISIONS.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall—
(i) determine whether revision of the
threshold under subparagraph (A) is war-
ranted; and
(ii) if the Administrator determines a revi-
sion to be warranted under clause (i), ini-
tiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
(c) INCLUSION FOLLOWING ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (e),
a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances shall be auto-
matically included in the toxics release in-
ventory beginning January 1 of the calendar
year after any of the following dates:
(A) ESTABLISHMENT OF TOXICITY VALUE.—
The date on which the Administrator estab-
lishes a toxicity value for the perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances.
(B) SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE.—The date
on which the Administrator finalizes a sig-
nificant new use rule under subsection (a)(2)
of section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new
use rule promulgated in connection with an
order issued under subsection (e) of that sec-
tion, for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances.
(C) ADDITION TO EXISTING SIGNIFICANT NEW
USE RULE.—The date on which the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances is added to a list of substances
covered by a significant new use rule pre-
viously promulgated under subsection (a)(2)
of section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new
use rule promulgated in connection with an
order issued under subsection (e) of that sec-
tion.
(D) ADDITION AS ACTIVE CHEMICAL SUB-
STANCE.—The date on which the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances that is on a list of substances
covered by a significant new use rule under
subsection (a)(2) of section 5 of the Toxic
Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), ex-
cept a significant new use rule promulgated
in connection with an order issued under
subsection (e) of that section, is—
(i) added to the inventory under subsection
(b)(1) of section 8 of the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607) and designated as
an active chemical substance under sub-
section (b)(5)(A) of that section; or
(ii) designated as an active chemical sub-
stance on the inventory in accordance with
subsection (b)(5)(B) of that section.
(2) THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the threshold for reporting under section
313(f)(1) of the Emergency Planning and
Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42
U.S.C. 11203(f)(1)) the substances and classes
of substances included in the toxics release
inventory under paragraph (1) is 100 pounds.
(B) REVISIONS.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall—
(i) determine whether revision of the
thresholds under subparagraph (A) is war-
ranted; and
(ii) if the Administrator determines a revi-
sion to be warranted under clause (i), ini-
tiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
(d) INCLUSION FOLLOWING DETERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To the extent not already
subject to subsection (b), not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Administrator shall determine
whether the substances and classes of sub-
stances described in paragraph (2) meet the
criteria described in section 313(d)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)) for
inclusion in the toxics release inventory.
(2) SUBSTANCES DESCRIBED.—The sub-
stances and classes of substances referred to
in paragraph (1) are perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, including—
(A) hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid
(Chemical Abstracts Service No. 13252–13–6);
(B) the compounds associated with the
chemical described in subparagraph (A)
(Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 62037–80–3
and 2062–98–8);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.085 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3703
June 18, 2019
(C) perfluoro[(2-pentafluoroethoxy-
ethoxy)acetic acid] ammonium salt (Chem-
ical Abstracts Service No. 908020–52–0);
(D) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
hexafluoro)-2-(trifluoromethoxy) propanoyl
fluoride (Chemical Abstracts Service No.
2479–75–6);
(E) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
hexafluoro)-2-(trifluoromethoxy) propionic
acid (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 2479–73–
4);
(F) 3H-perfluoro-3-[(3-methoxy-propoxy)
propanoic acid] (Chemical Abstracts Service
No. 919005–14–4);
(G) the salts associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (F) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service Nos. 958445–44–8, 1087271–46–2,
and NOCASl892452);
(H) 1-octanesulfonic acid
3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8-tridecafluoro-potassium
salt (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 59587–
38–1);
(I) perfluorobutanesulfonic acid (Chemical
Abstracts Service No. 375–73–5);
(J) 1-Butanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
nonafluoro-potassium salt (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 29420–49–3);
(K) the component associated with the
chemical described in subparagraph (J)
(Chemical Abstracts Service No. 45187–15–3);
(L) heptafluorobutyric acid (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 375–22–4);
(M) perfluorohexanoic acid (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 307–24–4);
(N) each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkly
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances for which a meth-
od to measure levels in drinking water has
been validated by the Administrator; and
(O) a perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances other than the
chemicals described in subparagraphs (A)
through (N) that is used to manufacture
fluoropolymers, as determined by the Ad-
ministrator.
(3) ADDITION TO TOXICS RELEASE INVEN-
TORY.—Subject to subsection (e), if the Ad-
ministrator determines under paragraph (1)
that a substance or a class of substances de-
scribed in paragraph (2) meets the criteria
described in section 313(d)(2) of the Emer-
gency Planning and Community Right-To-
Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)), the
Administrator shall revise the toxics release
inventory to include that substance or class
of substances not later than 2 years after the
date on which the Administrator makes the
determination.
(e) CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Prior to including on the
toxics release inventory pursuant to sub-
section (b)(1), (c)(1), or (d)(3) any
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances the chemical identity of which is
subject to a claim of a person of protection
from disclosure under subsection (a) of sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code, pursu-
ant to subsection (b)(4) of that section, the
Administrator shall—
(A) review that claim of protection from
disclosure; and
(B) require that person to reassert and sub-
stantiate or resubstantiate that claim in ac-
cordance with section 14(f) of the Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(f)).
(2) NONDISCLOSURE OF PROTECTION INFORMA-
TION.—If the Administrator determines that
the chemical identity of a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
qualifies for protection from disclosure
under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall
include the substance or class of substances,
as applicable, on the toxics release inventory
in a manner that does not disclose the pro-
tected information.
(f) EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY
RIGHT-TO-KNOW ACT OF 1986.—Section 313(c)
of the Emergency Planning and Community
Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c))
is amended—
(1) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘are those chemicals’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘are—
‘‘(1) the chemicals’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) the chemicals included under sub-
sections (b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(3) of section
1711 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020.’’.
Subtitle B—Drinking Water
SEC. 1721. NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER
REGULATIONS FOR PFAS.
Section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) PERFLUOROALKYL AND
POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this subpara-
graph, the Administrator shall promulgate a
national primary drinking water regulation
for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, which shall, at a minimum, include
standards for—
‘‘(I) perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘PFOA’); and
‘‘(II) perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (com-
monly referred to as ‘PFOS’).
‘‘(ii) ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the validation by the Administrator of
an equally effective quality control and test-
ing procedure to ensure compliance with
that national primary drinking water regu-
lation to measure the levels described in sub-
clause (II) or other methods to detect and
monitor perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances in drinking water, the Adminis-
trator shall add the procedure or method as
an alternative to the quality control and
testing procedure described in that national
primary drinking water regulation by pub-
lishing the procedure or method in the Fed-
eral Register.
‘‘(II) LEVELS DESCRIBED.—The levels re-
ferred to in subclause (I) are—
‘‘(aa) the level of a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance;
‘‘(bb) the total levels of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
‘‘(cc) the total levels of organic fluorine.
‘‘(iii) INCLUSIONS.—The Administrator may
include a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances on—
‘‘(I) the list of contaminants for consider-
ation of regulation under paragraph (1)(B)(i);
and
‘‘(II) the list of unregulated contaminants
to be monitored under section
1445(a)(2)(B)(i).
‘‘(iv) MONITORING.—When establishing
monitoring requirements for public water
systems as part of a national primary drink-
ing water regulation under clause (i) or
clause (vi)(II), the Administrator shall tailor
the monitoring requirements for public
water systems that do not detect or are reli-
ably and consistently below the maximum
contaminant level (as defined in section
1418(b)(2)(B)) for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
subject to the national primary drinking
water regulation.
‘‘(v) HEALTH RISK REDUCTION AND COST
ANALYSIS.—In meeting the requirements of
paragraph (3)(C), the Administrator may rely
on information available to the Adminis-
trator with respect to 1 or more specific
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
to extrapolate reasoned conclusions regard-
ing the health risks and effects of a class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
of which the specific perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances are a part.
‘‘(vi) REGULATION OF ADDITIONAL SUB-
STANCES.—
‘‘(I) DETERMINATION.—The Administrator
shall make a determination under paragraph
(1)(A), using the criteria described in clauses
(i) through (iii) of that paragraph, whether
to include a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
in the national primary drinking water regu-
lation under clause (i) not later than 18
months after the later of—
‘‘(aa) the date on which the perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
is listed on the list of contaminants for con-
sideration of regulation under paragraph
(1)(B)(i); and
‘‘(bb) the date on which—
‘‘(AA) the Administrator has received the
results of monitoring under section
1445(a)(2)(B) for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance;
or
‘‘(BB) the Administrator has received fin-
ished water data or finished water moni-
toring surveys for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
from a Federal or State agency that the Ad-
ministrator determines to be sufficient to
make a determination under paragraph
(1)(A).
‘‘(II) PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULA-
TIONS.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—For each perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
that the Administrator determines to regu-
late under subclause (I), the Administrator—
‘‘(AA) not later than 18 months after the
date on which the Administrator makes the
determination, shall propose a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation for the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances; and
‘‘(BB) may publish the proposed national
primary drinking water regulation described
in subitem (AA) concurrently with the publi-
cation of the determination to regulate the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances.
‘‘(bb) DEADLINE.—
‘‘(AA) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date on which the Administrator
publishes a proposed national primary drink-
ing water regulation under item (aa)(AA)
and subject to subitem (BB), the Adminis-
trator shall take final action on the proposed
national primary drinking water regulation.
‘‘(BB) EXTENSION.—The Administrator, on
publication of notice in the Federal Register,
may extend the deadline under subitem (AA)
by not more than 6 months.
‘‘(vii) LIFETIME DRINKING WATER HEALTH
ADVISORY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclause (II),
the Administrator shall publish a health ad-
visory under paragraph (1)(F) for a
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances not later than 1 year after the
later of—
‘‘(aa) the date on which the Administrator
finalizes a toxicity value for the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances; and
‘‘(bb) the date on which the Administrator
validates an effective quality control and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.073 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3704 June 18, 2019
testing procedure for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance,
if such a procedure did not exist on the date
on which the toxicity value described in item
(aa) was finalized.
‘‘(II) WAIVER.—The Administrator may
waive the requirements of subclause (I) with
respect to a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances if the Administrator determines that
there is a substantial likelihood that the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances will not occur in drinking
water.’’.
SEC. 1722. MONITORING AND DETECTION.
(a) MONITORING PROGRAM FOR UNREGU-
LATED CONTAMINANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
include each substance described in para-
graph (2) in the fifth publication of the list of
unregulated contaminants to be monitored
under section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–
4(a)(2)(B)(i)).
(2) SUBSTANCES DESCRIBED.—The sub-
stances referred to in paragraph (1) are
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances and classes of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances—
(A) for which a method to measure the
level in drinking water has been validated by
the Administrator; and
(B) that are not subject to a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation under clause
(i) or (vi)(II) of subparagraph (D) of section
1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)).
(3) EXCEPTION.—The perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances included in the list of unregulated
contaminants to be monitored under section
1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–4(a)(2)(B)(i)) under para-
graph (1) shall not count towards the limit of
30 unregulated contaminants to be mon-
itored by public water systems under that
section.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall—
(A) require public water systems serving
more than 10,000 persons to monitor for the
substances described in subsection (a)(2);
(B) subject to paragraph (2) and the avail-
ability of appropriations, require public
water systems serving not fewer than 3,300
and not more than 10,000 persons to monitor
for the substances described in subsection
(a)(2); and
(C) subject to paragraph (2) and the avail-
ability of appropriations, ensure that only a
representative sample of public water sys-
tems serving fewer than 3,300 persons are re-
quired to monitor for the substances de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2).
(2) REQUIREMENT.—If the Administrator de-
termines that there is not sufficient labora-
tory capacity to carry out the monitoring
required under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of
paragraph (1), the Administrator may waive
the monitoring requirements in those sub-
paragraphs.
(3) FUNDS.—The Administrator shall pay
the reasonable cost of such testing and lab-
oratory analysis as is necessary to carry out
the monitoring required under paragraph (1)
from—
(A) funds made available under subsection
(a)(2)(H) or (j)(5) of section 1445 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–4); or
(B) any other funds made available for that
purpose.
SEC. 1723. ENFORCEMENT.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Administrator may not impose fi-
nancial penalties for the violation of a na-
tional primary drinking water regulation (as
defined in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f)) with respect to a
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances for which a national primary
drinking water regulation has been promul-
gated under clause (i) or (vi) of subparagraph
(D) of section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)) earlier than
the date that is 5 years after the date on
which the Administrator promulgates the
national primary drinking water regulation.
SEC. 1724. DRINKING WATER STATE REVOLVING
FUNDS.
Section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water
Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–12) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(2), by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(G) EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law and subject to clause
(ii), amounts deposited under subsection (t)
in a State loan fund established under this
section may only be used to provide grants
for the purpose of addressing emerging con-
taminants, with a focus on perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
‘‘(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(I) SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED COMMU-
NITIES.—Not less than 25 percent of the
amounts described in clause (i) shall be used
to provide grants to—
‘‘(aa) disadvantaged communities (as de-
fined in subsection (d)(3)); or
‘‘(bb) public water systems serving fewer
than 25,000 persons.
‘‘(II) PRIORITIES.—In selecting the recipi-
ent of a grant using amounts described in
clause (i), a State shall use the priorities de-
scribed in subsection (b)(3)(A).
‘‘(iii) NO INCREASED BONDING AUTHORITY.—
The amounts deposited in the State loan
fund of a State under subsection (t) may not
be used as a source of payment of, or secu-
rity for (directly or indirectly), in whole or
in part, any obligation the interest on which
is exempt from the tax imposed under chap-
ter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.’’;
(2) in subsection (m)(1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘this
section’’ and inserting ‘‘this section, except
for subsections (a)(2)(G) and (t)’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(t) EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Amounts made available
under this subsection shall be allotted to a
State as if allotted under subsection (a)(1)(D)
as a capitalization grant, for deposit into the
State loan fund of the State, for the purposes
described in subsection (a)(2)(G).
‘‘(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this subsection $100,000,000 for each
of fiscal years 2020 through 2024, to remain
available until expended.’’.
Subtitle C—PFAS Detection
SEC. 1731. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the United States Geological
Survey.
(2) PERFLUORINATED COMPOUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘perfluorinated
compound’’ means a perfluoroalkyl sub-
stance or a polyfluoroalkyl substance that is
manmade with at least 1 fully fluorinated
carbon atom.
(B) DEFINITIONS.—In this definition:
(i) FULLY FLUORINATED CARBON ATOM.—The
term ‘‘fully fluorinated carbon atom’’ means
a carbon atom on which all the hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(ii) NONFLUORINATED CARBON ATOM.—The
term ‘‘nonfluorinated carbon atom’’ means a
carbon atom on which no hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(iii) PARTIALLY FLUORINATED CARBON
ATOM.—The term ‘‘partially fluorinated car-
bon atom’’ means a carbon atom on which
some, but not all, of the hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(iv) PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE.—The
term ‘‘perfluoroalkyl substance’’ means a
manmade chemical of which all of the car-
bon atoms are fully fluorinated carbon
atoms.
(v) POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE.—The
term ‘‘polyfluoroalkyl substance’’ means a
manmade chemical containing a mix of fully
fluorinated carbon atoms, partially
fluorinated carbon atoms, and
nonfluorinated carbon atoms.
SEC. 1732. PERFORMANCE STANDARD FOR THE
DETECTION OF PERFLUORINATED
COMPOUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall estab-
lish a performance standard for the detection
of perfluorinated compounds.
(b) EMPHASIS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In developing the per-
formance standard under subsection (a), the
Director shall emphasize the ability to de-
tect as many perfluorinated compounds
present in the environment as possible using
analytical methods that—
(A) achieve limits of quantitation (as de-
fined in the document of the United States
Geological Survey entitled ‘‘Analytical
Methods for Chemical Analysis of Geologic
and Other Materials, U.S. Geological Sur-
vey’’ and dated 2002); and
(B) are as sensitive as is feasible and prac-
ticable.
(2) REQUIREMENT.—In developing the per-
formance standard under subsection (a), the
Director may—
(A) develop quality assurance and quality
control measures to ensure accurate sam-
pling and testing;
(B) develop a training program with re-
spect to the appropriate method of sample
collection and analysis of perfluorinated
compounds; and
(C) coordinate with the Administrator, in-
cluding, if appropriate, coordinating to de-
velop media-specific, validated analytical
methods to detect individual and different
perfluorinated compounds simultaneously.
SEC. 1733. NATIONWIDE SAMPLING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall carry
out a nationwide sampling to determine the
concentration of perfluorinated compounds
in estuaries, lakes, streams, springs, wells,
wetlands, rivers, aquifers, and soil using the
performance standard developed under sec-
tion 1732(a).
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out the
sampling under subsection (a), the Director
shall—
(1) first carry out the sampling at sources
of drinking water near locations with known
or suspected releases of perfluorinated com-
pounds;
(2) when carrying out sampling of sources
of drinking water under paragraph (1), carry
out the sampling prior to any treatment of
the water;
(3) survey for ecological exposure to
perfluorinated compounds, with a priority in
determining direct human exposure through
drinking water; and
(4) consult with—
(A) States to determine areas that are a
priority for sampling; and
(B) the Administrator—
(i) to enhance coverage of the sampling;
and
(ii) to avoid unnecessary duplication.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the completion of the sampling under sub-
section (a), the Director shall prepare a re-
port describing the results of the sampling
and submit the report to—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.073 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3705
June 18, 2019
(1) the Committee on Environment and
Public Works and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(3) the Senators of each State in which the
Director carried out the sampling; and
(4) each Member of the House of Represent-
atives that represents a district in which the
Director carried out the sampling.
SEC. 1734. DATA USAGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall pro-
vide the sampling data collected under sec-
tion 1733 to—
(1) the Administrator; and
(2) other Federal and State regulatory
agencies on request.
(b) USAGE.—The sampling data provided
under subsection (a) shall be used to inform
and enhance assessments of exposure, likely
health and environmental impacts, and re-
mediation priorities.
SEC. 1735. COLLABORATION.
In carrying out this subtitle, the Director
shall collaborate with—
(1) appropriate Federal and State regu-
lators;
(2) institutions of higher education;
(3) research institutions; and
(4) other expert stakeholders.
SEC. 1736. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Director to carry out this subtitle—
(1) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
(2) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2024.
Subtitle D—Safe Drinking Water Assistance
SEC. 1741. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONTAMINANT.—The term ‘‘contami-
nant’’ means any physical, chemical, biologi-
cal, or radiological substance or matter in
water.
(2) CONTAMINANT OF EMERGING CONCERN;
EMERGING CONTAMINANT.—The terms ‘‘con-
taminant of emerging concern’’ and ‘‘emerg-
ing contaminant’’ mean a contaminant—
(A) for which the Administrator has not
promulgated a national primary drinking
water regulation; and
(B) that may have an adverse effect on the
health of individuals.
(3) FEDERAL RESEARCH STRATEGY.—The
term ‘‘Federal research strategy’’ means the
coordinated cross-agency plan for addressing
critical research gaps related to detecting,
assessing exposure to, and identifying the
adverse health effects of emerging contami-
nants in drinking water developed by the Of-
fice of Science and Technology Policy in re-
sponse to the report of the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate accompanying S.
1662 of the 115th Congress (S. Rept. 115–139).
(4) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT.—
The term ‘‘technical assistance and support’’
includes—
(A) assistance with—
(i) identifying appropriate analytical
methods for the detection of contaminants;
(ii) understanding the strengths and limi-
tations of the analytical methods described
in clause (i);
(iii) troubleshooting the analytical meth-
ods described in clause (i);
(B) providing advice on laboratory certifi-
cation program elements;
(C) interpreting sample analysis results;
(D) providing training with respect to
proper analytical techniques;
(E) identifying appropriate technology for
the treatment of contaminants; and
(F) analyzing samples, if—
(i) the analysis cannot be otherwise ob-
tained in a practicable manner otherwise;
and
(ii) the capability and capacity to perform
the analysis is available at a Federal facil-
ity.
(5) WORKING GROUP.—The term ‘‘Working
Group’’ means the Working Group estab-
lished under section 1742(b)(1).
SEC. 1742. RESEARCH AND COORDINATION PLAN
FOR ENHANCED RESPONSE ON
EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator
shall—
(1) review Federal efforts—
(A) to identify, monitor, and assist in the
development of treatment methods for
emerging contaminants; and
(B) to assist States in responding to the
human health risks posed by contaminants
of emerging concern; and
(2) in collaboration with owners and opera-
tors of public water systems, States, and
other interested stakeholders, establish a
strategic plan for improving the Federal ef-
forts referred to in paragraph (1).
(b) INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON
EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall jointly establish a
Working Group to coordinate the activities
of the Federal Government to identify and
analyze the public health effects of drinking
water contaminants of emerging concern.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The Working Group shall
include representatives of the following:
(A) The Environmental Protection Agency,
appointed by the Administrator.
(B) The following agencies, appointed by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services:
(i) The National Institutes of Health.
(ii) The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.
(iii) The Agency for Toxic Substances and
Disease Registry.
(C) The United States Geological Survey,
appointed by the Secretary of the Interior.
(D) Any other Federal agency the assist-
ance of which the Administrator determines
to be necessary to carry out this subsection,
appointed by the head of the respective agen-
cy.
(3) EXISTING WORKING GROUP.—The Admin-
istrator may expand or modify the duties of
an existing working group to perform the du-
ties of the Working Group under this sub-
section.
(c) NATIONAL EMERGING CONTAMINANT RE-
SEARCH INITIATIVE.—
(1) FEDERAL RESEARCH STRATEGY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy (referred to in this subsection
as the ‘‘Director’’) shall coordinate with the
heads of the agencies described in subpara-
graph (C) to establish a research initiative,
to be known as the ‘‘National Emerging Con-
taminant Research Initiative’’, that shall—
(i) use the Federal research strategy to im-
prove the identification, analysis, moni-
toring, and treatment methods of contami-
nants of emerging concern; and
(ii) develop any necessary program, policy,
or budget to support the implementation of
the Federal research strategy, including
mechanisms for joint agency review of re-
search proposals, for interagency cofunding
of research activities, and for information
sharing across agencies.
(B) RESEARCH ON EMERGING CONTAMI-
NANTS.—In carrying out subparagraph (A),
the Director shall—
(i) take into consideration consensus con-
clusions from peer-reviewed, pertinent re-
search on emerging contaminants; and
(ii) in consultation with the Adminis-
trator, identify priority emerging contami-
nants for research emphasis.
(C) FEDERAL PARTICIPATION.—The agencies
referred to in subparagraph (A) include—
(i) the National Science Foundation;
(ii) the National Institutes of Health;
(iii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(iv) the National Institute of Standards
and Technology;
(v) the United States Geological Survey;
and
(vi) any other Federal agency that contrib-
utes to research in water quality, environ-
mental exposures, and public health, as de-
termined by the Director.
(D) PARTICIPATION FROM ADDITIONAL ENTI-
TIES.—In carrying out subparagraph (A), the
Director shall consult with nongovernmental
organizations, State and local governments,
and science and research institutions deter-
mined by the Director to have scientific or
material interest in the National Emerging
Contaminant Research Initiative.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION OF RESEARCH REC-
OMMENDATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date on which the Director and
heads of the agencies described in paragraph
(1)(C) establish the National Emerging Con-
taminant Research Initiative under para-
graph (1)(A), the head of each agency de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(C) shall—
(i) issue a solicitation for research pro-
posals consistent with the Federal research
strategy; and
(ii) make grants to applicants that submit
research proposals selected by the National
Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative
in accordance with subparagraph (B).
(B) SELECTION OF RESEARCH PROPOSALS.—
The National Emerging Contaminant Re-
search Initiative shall select research pro-
posals to receive grants under this paragraph
on the basis of merit, using criteria identi-
fied by the Director, including the likelihood
that the proposed research will result in sig-
nificant progress toward achieving the objec-
tives identified in the Federal research strat-
egy.
(C) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—Any entity or
group of 2 or more entities may submit to
the head of each agency described in para-
graph (1)(C) a research proposal in response
to the solicitation for research proposals de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i), including—
(i) State and local agencies;
(ii) public institutions, including public in-
stitutions of higher education;
(iii) private corporations; and
(iv) nonprofit organizations.
(d) FEDERAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
SUPPORT FOR STATES.—
(1) STUDY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall conduct a study on ac-
tions the Administrator can take to increase
technical assistance and support for States
with respect to emerging contaminants in
drinking water samples.
(B) CONTENTS OF STUDY.—In carrying out
the study described in subparagraph (A), the
Administrator shall identify—
(i) methods and effective treatment op-
tions to increase technical assistance and
support with respect to emerging contami-
nants to States, including identifying oppor-
tunities for States to improve communica-
tion with various audiences about the risks
associated with emerging contaminants;
(ii) means to facilitate access to qualified
contract testing laboratory facilities that
conduct analyses for emerging contami-
nants; and
(iii) actions to be carried out at existing
Federal laboratory facilities, including the
research facilities of the Administrator, to
provide technical assistance and support for
States that require testing facilities for
emerging contaminants.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.073 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3706 June 18, 2019
(C) AVAILABILITY OF ANALYTICAL RE-
SOURCES.—In carrying out the study de-
scribed in subparagraph (A), the Adminis-
trator shall consider—
(i) the availability of—
(I) Federal and non-Federal laboratory ca-
pacity; and
(II) validated methods to detect and ana-
lyze contaminants; and
(ii) other factors determined to be appro-
priate by the Administrator.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall submit to Congress a re-
port describing the results of the study de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
(3) PROGRAM TO PROVIDE FEDERAL ASSIST-
ANCE TO STATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act,
based on the findings in the report described
in paragraph (2), the Administrator shall de-
velop a program to provide technical assist-
ance and support to eligible States for the
testing and analysis of emerging contami-
nants.
(B) APPLICATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible for tech-
nical assistance and support under this para-
graph, a State shall submit to the Adminis-
trator an application at such time, in such
manner, and containing such information as
the Administrator may require.
(ii) CRITERIA.—The Administrator shall
evaluate an application for technical assist-
ance and support under this paragraph on
the basis of merit using criteria identified by
the Administrator, including—
(I) the laboratory facilities available to the
State;
(II) the availability and applicability of ex-
isting analytical methodologies;
(III) the potency and severity of the emerg-
ing contaminant, if known; and
(IV) the prevalence and magnitude of the
emerging contaminant.
(iii) PRIORITIZATION.—In selecting States to
receive technical assistance and support
under this paragraph, the Administrator—
(I) shall give priority to States with af-
fected areas primarily in financially dis-
tressed communities;
(II) may—
(aa) waive the application process in an
emergency situation; and
(bb) require an abbreviated application
process for the continuation of work speci-
fied in a previously approved application
that continues to meet the criteria described
in clause (ii); and
(III) shall consider the relative expertise
and availability of—
(aa) Federal and non-Federal laboratory
capacity available to the State;
(bb) analytical resources available to the
State; and
(cc) other types of technical assistance
available to the State.
(C) DATABASE OF AVAILABLE RESOURCES.—
The Administrator shall establish and main-
tain a database of resources available
through the program developed under sub-
paragraph (A) to assist States with testing
for emerging contaminants that—
(i) is—
(I) available to States and stakeholder
groups determined by the Administrator to
have scientific or material interest in emerg-
ing contaminants, including—
(aa) drinking water and wastewater utili-
ties;
(bb) laboratories;
(cc) Federal and State emergency respond-
ers;
(dd) State primacy agencies;
(ee) public health agencies; and
(ff) water associations;
(II) searchable; and
(III) accessible through the website of the
Administrator; and
(ii) includes a description of—
(I) qualified contract testing laboratory fa-
cilities that conduct analyses for emerging
contaminants; and
(II) the resources available in Federal lab-
oratory facilities to test for emerging con-
taminants.
(D) WATER CONTAMINANT INFORMATION
TOOL.—The Administrator shall integrate
the database established under subparagraph
(C) into the Water Contaminant Information
Tool of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy.
(4) FUNDING.—Of the amounts available to
the Administrator, the Administrator may
use not more than $15,000,000 in a fiscal year
to carry out this subsection.
(e) REPORT.—Not less frequently than once
every 2 years until 2029, the Administrator
shall submit to Congress a report that de-
scribes the progress made in carrying out
this subtitle.
(f) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section modi-
fies any obligation of a State, local govern-
ment, or Indian Tribe with respect to treat-
ment methods for, or testing or monitoring
of, drinking water.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
SEC. 1751. PFAS DATA CALL.
Section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Con-
trol Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) PFAS DATA.—Not later than January
1, 2023, the Administrator shall promulgate a
rule in accordance with this subsection re-
quiring each person who has manufactured a
chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance in any year
since January 1, 2006, to submit to the Ad-
ministrator a report that includes, for each
year since January 1, 2006, the information
described in paragraph (2).’’.
SEC. 1752. SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE FOR
LONG-CHAIN PFAS.
Not later than June 22, 2020, the Adminis-
trator shall take final action on the signifi-
cant new use rule proposed by the Adminis-
trator under the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) in the proposed
rule entitled ‘‘Long-Chain Perfluoroalkyl
Carboxylate and Perfluoroalkyl Sulfonate
Chemical Substances; Significant New Use
Rule’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 2885 (January 21, 2015)).
SEC. 1753. PFAS DESTRUCTION AND DISPOSAL
GUIDANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall publish interim guid-
ance on the destruction and disposal of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances and materials containing
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, including—
(1) aqueous film-forming foam;
(2) soil and biosolids;
(3) textiles treated with perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
(4) spent filters, membranes, and other
waste from water treatment.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS; INCLUSIONS.—The in-
terim guidance under subsection (a) shall—
(1) take into consideration—
(A) the potential for releases of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances during destruction or disposal, in-
cluding through volatilization, air disper-
sion, or leachate; and
(B) potentially vulnerable populations liv-
ing near likely destruction or disposal sites;
and
(2) provide guidance on testing and moni-
toring air, effluent, and soil near potential
destruction or disposal sites for releases de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(A).
(c) REVISIONS.—The Administrator shall
publish revisions to the interim guidance
under subsection (a) as the Administrator
determines to be appropriate, but not less
frequently than once every 3 years.
SEC. 1754. PFAS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator, act-
ing through the Assistant Administrator for
the Office of Research and Development,
shall—
(1)(A) further examine the effects of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances on human health and the environ-
ment; and
(B) make publicly available information
relating to the findings under subparagraph
(A);
(2) develop a process for prioritizing which
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, or classes of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances, should be sub-
ject to additional research or regulatory ef-
forts that is based on—
(A) the potential for human exposure to
the substances or classes of substances;
(B) the potential toxicity of the substances
or classes of substances; and
(C) information available about the sub-
stances or classes of substances;
(3) develop new tools to characterize and
identify perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances in the environment, including in
drinking water, wastewater, surface water,
groundwater, solids, and the air;
(4) evaluate approaches for the remedi-
ation of contamination by perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the envi-
ronment; and
(5) develop and implement new tools and
materials to communicate with the public
about perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances.
(b) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be ap-
propriated to the Administrator to carry out
this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.
SA 695. Ms. WARREN (for herself and
Mr. BROWN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by her to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title II, add the
following:
SEC. lll. NATIONAL SECURITY COMMISSION
ON DEFENSE RESEARCH AT HIS-
TORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES AND OTHER MINOR-
ITY INSTITUTIONS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in the
executive branch an independent Commis-
sion to review the state of defense research
at covered institutions.
(2) TREATMENT.—The Commission shall be
considered an independent establishment of
the Federal Government as defined by sec-
tion 104 of title 5, United States Code, and a
temporary organization under section 3161 of
such title.
(3) DESIGNATION.—The Commission estab-
lished under paragraph (1) shall be known as
the ‘‘National Security Commission on De-
fense Research At Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities and Other Minority
Institutions’’.
(4) MEMBERSHIP.—
(A) COMPOSITION.—The Commission shall
be composed of 11 members appointed as fol-
lows:
(i) The Secretary of Defense shall appoint
2 members.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.073 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3707
June 18, 2019
(ii) The Secretary of Education shall ap-
point 1 member.
(iii) The Chairman of the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate shall appoint 1
member.
(iv) The Ranking Member of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate
shall appoint 1 member.
(v) The Chairman of the Committee on
Armed Services of the House of Representa-
tives shall appoint 1 member.
(vi) The Ranking Member of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives shall appoint 1 member.
(vii) The Chairman of the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate shall appoint 1 member.
(viii) The Ranking Member of the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate shall appoint 1 mem-
ber.
(ix) The Chairman of the Committee on
Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives shall appoint 1 member.
(x) The Ranking Member of the Committee
on Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives shall appoint 1 member.
(B) DEADLINE FOR APPOINTMENT.—Members
shall be appointed to the Commission under
subparagraph (A) not later than 90 days after
the date on which the commission is estab-
lished.
(C) EFFECT OF LACK OF APPOINTMENT BY AP-
POINTMENT DATE.—If one or more appoint-
ments under subparagraph (A) is not made
by the appointment date specified in sub-
paragraph (B), or if a position described in
subparagraph (A) is vacant for more than 90
days, the authority to make such appoint-
ment shall transfer to the Chair of the Com-
mission.
(5) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.—The Commission
shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair from
among its members.
(6) TERMS.—Members shall be appointed for
the life of the Commission. A vacancy in the
Commission shall not affect its powers and
shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment was made.
(7) STATUS AS FEDERAL EMPLOYEES.—Not-
withstanding the requirements of section
2105 of title 5, United States Code, including
the required supervision under subsection
(a)(3) of such section, the members of the
Commission shall be deemed to be Federal
employees.
(b) DUTIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
carry out the review described in paragraph
(2). In carrying out such review, the Commis-
sion shall consider the methods and means
necessary to advance research capacity at
covered institutions to comprehensively ad-
dress the national security and defense needs
of the United States.
(2) SCOPE OF THE REVIEW.—In conducting
the review under paragraph (1), the Commis-
sion shall consider the following:
(A) The competitiveness of covered institu-
tions in developing, pursuing, capturing, and
executing defense research with the Depart-
ment of Defense through contracts and
grants.
(B) Means and methods for advancing the
capacity of covered institutions to conduct
research related to national security and de-
fense.
(C) The advancements and investments
necessary to elevate 25 covered institutions
to R2 status on the Carnegie Classification of
Institutions of Higher Education, 15 covered
institutions to R1 status on the Carnegie
Classification of Institutions of Higher Edu-
cation, and one covered institution or a con-
sortium of multiple covered institutions to
the capability of a University Affiliated Re-
search Center.
(D) The facilities and infrastructure for de-
fense-related research at covered institu-
tions as compared to the facilities and infra-
structure at universities classified as R1 sta-
tus on the Carnegie Classification of Institu-
tions of Higher Education.
(E) Incentives to attract, recruit, and re-
tain leading research faculty to covered in-
stitutions.
(F) The legal and organizational structure
of the contracting entity of covered institu-
tions as compared to the legal and organiza-
tional structure of the contracting entity of
covered institutions at universities classified
as R1 status on the Carnegie Classification of
Institutions of Higher Education.
(G) The ability of covered institutions to
develop, protect, and commercialize intellec-
tual property created through defense-re-
lated research.
(H) The amount of defense research fund-
ing awarded to all colleges and universities
through contracts and grants for the fiscal
years of 2010 through 2019, including—
(i) the legal mechanism under which the
organization was formed;
(ii) the total value of contracts and grants
awarded to the organization during fiscal
years 2010 to 2019;
(iii) the overhead rate of the organization
for fiscal year 2019;
(iv) the Carnegie Classification of Institu-
tions of Higher Education of the associated
university or college;
(v) if the associated university or college
qualifies as a historically Black college or
university, a minority institution, or a mi-
nority institution.
(I) Areas for improvement in the programs
executed under section 2362 of title 10,
United States Code, the existing authoriza-
tion to enhance defense-related research and
education at covered institutions.
(J) Previous executive or legislative ac-
tions by the Federal Government to address
the imbalance in federal research funding,
such as the Established Program to Stimu-
late Competitive Research (commonly
known as ‘‘EPSCoR’’).
(K) Any other matters the Commission
deems relevant to the advancing the defense
research capacity of covered institutions.
(c) REPORTS.—
(1) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Commission shall submit to the
President and Congress an initial report on
the findings of the Commission and such rec-
ommendations that the Commission may
have for action by the executive branch and
Congress related to the covered institutions
participating in Department of Defense re-
search and actions necessary to expand their
research capacity.
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Prior to the date on
which the commission terminates under sub-
section (e), the Commission shall submit to
the President and Congress a comprehensive
report on the results of the review required
under subsection (b).
(3) FORM OF REPORTS.—Reports submitted
under this subsection shall be made pub-
lically available.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriate to
carry this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 and 2021. Funds made available to
the under the preceding sentence shall re-
main available until expended.
(e) TERMINATION.—The Commission shall
terminate on December 31, 2021.
(f) COVERED INSTITUTION DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘covered institution’’
means—
(1) a part B institution (as that term is de-
fined in section 322(2) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061(2)); or
(2) any other institution of higher edu-
cation (as that term is defined in section 101
of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1001)) at which not less
than 50 percent of the total student enroll-
ment consists of students from ethnic groups
that are underrepresented in the fields of
science and engineering.
SEC. lll. CONSIDERATION OF SUBCON-
TRACTING TO MINORITY INSTITU-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 141 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2410t. Consideration of subcontracting to
minority institutions
‘‘(a) CONSIDERATION OF SUBCONTRACTING TO
MINORITY INSTITUTIONS.—The Secretary of
Defense shall revise the Department of De-
fense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
Regulation to require that the system used
by the Federal Government to monitor or
record contractor past performance for a
grant or contract awarded to an institution
of higher education includes incentives for
the award of a sub-grant or subcontract to
minority institutions.
‘‘(b) MINORITY INSTITUTION DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘minority institution’
means—
‘‘(1) a part B institution (as that term is
defined in section 322(2) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061(2)); or
‘‘(2) any other institution of higher edu-
cation (as that term is defined in section 101
of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1001)) at which not less
than 50 percent of the total student enroll-
ment consists of students from ethnic groups
that are underrepresented in the fields of
science and engineering.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by adding at the end the following
new item:
‘‘2410t. Consideration of subcontracting to
minority institutions.’’.
SA 696. Ms. WARREN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle F of title VIII, add
the following:
SEC. 866. REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL E-
PORTAL.
Section 846(d) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public
Law 115–91; 41 U.S.C. 1901 note) is amended
by adding at the end the following: ‘‘In any
contract awarded to a commercial portal
provider pursuant to subsection (a), the Ad-
ministrator shall require that the provider—
‘‘(1) not force participating suppliers to
sell their products to customers of the portal
provider outside of the program as a condi-
tion of participating in the portal;
‘‘(2) clearly and conspicuously commu-
nicate to participating suppliers that they
are not required to sell their products to cus-
tomers of the portal provider outside of the
program as a condition to participating in
the portal; and
‘‘(3) not take any direct or indirect puni-
tive actions against participating suppliers
that do not sell to customers of the portal
provider outside of the program.’’.
SA 697. Ms. WARREN (for herself,
Mr. MARKEY, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.074 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3708 June 18, 2019
GILLIBRAND, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr.
MERKLEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by her to the bill
S. 1790, to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities
of the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title XVI, in-
sert the following:
SEC. 16ll. PROHIBITION ON DEPLOYMENT OF
LOW-YIELD SUBMARINE-LAUNCHED
BALLISTIC MISSILE.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, none of the funds authorized to be ap-
propriated by this Act or otherwise made
available for the Department of Defense may
be obligated or expended to arm Trident II
D5 submarine-launched ballistic missiles
fielded on Ohio class ballistic missile sub-
marines with the W76–2 low-yield warhead.
SA 698. Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. CASEY, Mr. MANCHIN, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. MURPHY, and Mr. SAND-
ERS) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1086. INCREASE OF MAXIMUM AGE FOR
CHILDREN ELIGIBLE FOR MEDICAL
CARE UNDER CHAMPVA PROGRAM.
(a) INCREASE.—Subsection (c) of section
1781 of title 38, United States Code, is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(c)(1) Notwithstanding clauses (i) and (iii)
of section 101(4)(A) of this title and except as
provided in paragraph (2), for purposes of
this section, a child is eligible for benefits
under subsection (a) until the child’s 26th
birthday, regardless of the child’s marital
status.
‘‘(2) This subsection shall not be construed
to limit eligibility for benefits under sub-
section (a) of a child described in section
101(4)(A)(ii) of this title.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Such subsection, as
so amended, shall apply with respect to med-
ical care provided on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
SA 699. Mr. BROWN (for himself and
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title II, add the
following:
SEC. lll. IMPORTANCE OF HISTORICALLY
BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVER-
SITIES AND MINORITY-SERVING IN-
STITUTIONS.
(a) INCREASE.—Funds authorized to be ap-
propriated in Research, Development, Test,
and Evaluation, Defense-wide, PE
0601228D8Z, section 4201, for Basic Research,
Historically Black Colleges and Universities/
Minority Institutions, Line 006, are hereby
increased by $17,586,000.
(b) OFFSET.—Funding in section 4101 for
Other Procurement, Army, for Automated
Data Processing Equipment, Line 112, is
hereby reduced by $17,586,000.
SA 700. Mr. WYDEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title XVI, add
the following:
SEC. lll. REPORT ON USE OF ENCRYPTION BY
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NA-
TIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to Congress a report
setting forth aggregate statistics on the
number of national security systems (as de-
fined in section 11103 of title 40, United
States Code) operated by the Department of
Defense that do not encrypt at rest all data
stored on such systems.
SA 701. Mr. MANCHIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. CONGRESSIONAL COMMISSION ON PRE-
VENTING, COUNTERING, AND RE-
SPONDING TO NUCLEAR AND RADIO-
LOGICAL TERRORISM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is hereby es-
tablished a commission, to be known as the
‘‘Congressional Commission on Preventing,
Countering, and Responding to Nuclear and
Radiological Terrorism’’ (referred to in this
Act as the ‘‘Commission’’), which shall de-
velop a comprehensive strategy to prevent,
counter, and respond to nuclear and radio-
logical terrorism.
(b) COMPOSITION.—
(1) MEMBERSHIP.—The Commission shall be
composed of 12 members, of whom—
(A) 1 shall be appointed by the majority
leader of the Senate;
(B) 1 shall be appointed by the minority
leader of the Senate;
(C) 1 shall be appointed by the Speaker of
the House of Representatives;
(D) 1 shall be appointed by the minority
leader of the House of Representatives;
(E) 1 shall be appointed by the chairman of
the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate;
(F) 1 shall be appointed by the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Armed
Services of the Senate;
(G) 1 shall be appointed by the chairman of
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives;
(H) 1 shall be appointed by the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
(I) 1 shall be appointed by the chairman of
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(J) 1 shall be appointed by the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs of
the Senate;
(K) 1 shall be appointed by the chairman of
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives; and
(L) 1 shall be appointed by the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Home-
land Security of the House of Representa-
tives.
(2) CHAIRMAN; VICE CHAIRMAN.—
(A) CHAIRMAN.—The chair of the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate and the chair of
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives shall jointly des-
ignate 1 member of the Commission to serve
as Chair of the Commission.
(B) VICE CHAIRMAN.—The ranking member
of the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate and the ranking member of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives shall jointly designate 1
member of the Commission to serve as Vice
Chair of the Commission.
(3) PERIOD OF APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES.—
Members shall be appointed for the life of
the Commission. Any vacancy in the Com-
mission shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment.
(c) DUTIES.—
(1) REVIEW.—After conducting a review of
the United States’ current strategy, outlined
in the National Strategy for Countering
Weapons of Mass Destruction Terrorism, to
prevent, counter, and respond to nuclear and
radiological terrorism, the Commission shall
develop a comprehensive strategy that—
(A) identifies national and international
nuclear and radiological terrorism risks and
critical emerging threats;
(B) prevents state and nonstate actors
from acquiring the technologies, materials,
and critical expertise needed to mount nu-
clear or radiological attacks;
(C) counters efforts by state and nonstate
actors to mount such attacks;
(D) responds to nuclear and radiological
terrorism incidents to attribute their origin
and help manage their consequences;
(E) provides the projected resources to im-
plement and sustain the strategy;
(F) delineates indicators for assessing
progress toward implementing the strategy;
(G) makes recommendations for improve-
ments to the National Strategy for Coun-
tering Weapons of Mass Destruction Ter-
rorism;
(H) determines whether a Nuclear Non-
proliferation Council is needed to oversee
and coordinate nuclear nonproliferation, nu-
clear counterproliferation, nuclear security,
and nuclear arms control activities and pro-
grams of the United States Government; and
(I) if the Commission determines that such
council is needed, provides recommendations
regarding—
(i) appropriate council membership;
(ii) frequency of meetings;
(iii) responsibilities of the council;
(iv) coordination within the United States
Government; and
(v) congressional reporting requirements.
(2) ASSESSMENT AND RECOMMENDATIONS.—
(A) ASSESSMENT.—The Commission shall
assess the benefits and risks associated with
the current United States strategy in rela-
tion to nuclear terrorism.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.074 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3709
June 18, 2019
(B) RECOMMENDATIONS.—The Commission
shall develop recommendations regarding
the most effective nuclear terrorism strat-
egy.
(d) COOPERATION FROM GOVERNMENT.—
(1) COOPERATION.—In carrying out its du-
ties, the Commission shall receive the full
and timely cooperation of the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Secretary
of State, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the National Security Council, and
any other United States Government official
in providing the Commission with analyses,
briefings, and other information necessary
for the fulfillment of its responsibilities.
(2) LIAISON.—The Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Home-
land Security, the Secretary of State, and
the Director of National Intelligence shall
each designate at least 1 officer or employee
of the Department of Defense, the Depart-
ment of Energy, the Department of State,
the National Security Council, and the intel-
ligence community, respectively, to serve as
a liaison officer with the Commission.
(e) STRATEGIC REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
1, 2020, the Commission shall submit a stra-
tegic report containing the Commission’s
findings, conclusions, and recommendations
to—
(A) the President;
(B) the Secretary of Defense;
(C) the Secretary of Energy;
(D) the Secretary of State;
(E) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(F) the Director of National Intelligence;
(G) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate; and
(H) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report required under
paragraph (1) shall outline how the Federal
Government will—
(A) encourage and incentivize other coun-
tries and relevant international organiza-
tions, such as the International Atomic En-
ergy Agency and INTERPOL, to make nu-
clear and radiological security a priority;
(B) improve cooperation, with a focus on
developing and deploying technologies to de-
tect and prevent illicit transfers of weapons
of mass destruction-related materials, equip-
ment, and technology, and appropriate inte-
gration among Federal entities and Federal,
State, and tribal governments; and
(C) improve cooperation, with a focus on
developing and deploying technologies to de-
tect and prevent illicit transfers of weapons
of mass destruction-related materials, equip-
ment, and technology, between the United
States and other countries and international
organizations, while focusing on cooperation
with China, India, Pakistan, and Russia.
(f) TERMINATION.—The Commission shall
terminate on the date on which the report is
submitted under subsection (e)(1).
SA 702. Mr. GRAHAM (for himself
and Mr. HEINRICH) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title XXXI, add
the following:
SEC. 3116. MODIFICATION TO CERTAIN REQUIRE-
MENTS RELATING TO PLUTONIUM
PIT PRODUCTION CAPACITY.
(a) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense
of the Senate that—
(1) rebuilding a robust plutonium pit pro-
duction infrastructure with a capacity of up
to 80 pits per year is critical to maintaining
the viability of the nuclear stockpile;
(2) that effort will require cooperation
from experts across the nuclear security en-
terprise; and
(3) any further delay to achieving a pluto-
nium sustainment capability to support the
planned stockpile life extension programs
will result in an unacceptable capability gap
to our deterrent posture.
(b) MODIFICATION TO REQUIREMENTS.—Sec-
tion 4219 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(50 U.S.C. 2538a) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph
(5) and inserting the following:
‘‘(5) during 2030, produces not less than 80
war reserve plutonium pits.’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b);
(3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d)
as subsections (b) and (c), respectively;
(4) in subsection (b), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘2027 (or, if the au-
thority under subsection (b) is exercised,
2029)’’ and inserting ‘‘2030’’; and
(5) in subsection (c), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘subsection (c)’’
and inserting ‘‘subsection (b)’’.
SA 703. Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Mr. TOOMEY) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by her to the bill S. 1790, to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In section 318(a), add at the end the fol-
lowing:
(3) OTHER AUTHORITY.—In addition to the
requirements under paragraph (1), when oth-
erwise authorized to expend funds for the
purpose of addressing ground or surface
water contaminated by a perfluorinated
compound, the Secretary of Defense may, to
expend those funds, enter into a grant agree-
ment, cooperative agreement, or contract
with—
(A) the local water authority with jurisdic-
tion over the contamination site, including—
(i) a public water system (as defined in sec-
tion 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300f)); and
(ii) a publicly owned treatment works (as
defined in section 212 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1292)); or
(B) a State, local, or Tribal government.
At the end of division A, add the following:
TITLE XVII—PFAS RELEASE DISCLOSURE,
DETECTION, AND SAFE DRINKING
WATER ASSISTANCE
SEC. 1701. DEFINITION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
In this title, the term ‘‘Administrator’’
means the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
Subtitle A—PFAS Release Disclosure
SEC. 1711. ADDITIONS TO TOXICS RELEASE IN-
VENTORY.
(a) DEFINITION OF TOXICS RELEASE INVEN-
TORY.—In this section, the term ‘‘toxics re-
lease inventory’’ means the toxics release in-
ventory under section 313(c) of the Emer-
gency Planning and Community Right-To-
Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c)).
(b) IMMEDIATE INCLUSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (e),
beginning January 1 of the calendar year fol-
lowing the date of enactment of this Act, the
following chemicals shall be deemed to be in-
cluded in the toxics release inventory:
(A) Perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘‘PFOA’’) (Chemical Abstracts
Service No. 335–67–1).
(B) The salt associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (A) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 3825–26–1).
(C) Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (com-
monly referred to as ‘‘PFOS’’) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 1763–23–1).
(D) The salts associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (C) (Chemical Ab-
stract Service Nos. 45298–90–6, 29457–72–5,
56773–42–3, 29081–56–9, 4021–47–0, 111873–33–7,
and 91036–71–4).
(E) A perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances that is—
(i) listed as an active chemical substance
in the February 2019 update to the inventory
under section 8(b)(1) of the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(b)(1)); and
(ii) on the date of enactment of this Act,
subject to the provisions of—
(I) section 721.9582 of title 40, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations; or
(II) section 721.10536 of title 40, Code of
Federal Regulations.
(2) THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the threshold for reporting the chemi-
cals described in paragraph (1) under section
313(f)(1) of the Emergency Planning and
Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42
U.S.C. 11023(f)(1)) is 100 pounds.
(B) REVISIONS.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall—
(i) determine whether revision of the
threshold under subparagraph (A) is war-
ranted; and
(ii) if the Administrator determines a revi-
sion to be warranted under clause (i), ini-
tiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
(c) INCLUSION FOLLOWING ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (e),
a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances shall be auto-
matically included in the toxics release in-
ventory beginning January 1 of the calendar
year after any of the following dates:
(A) ESTABLISHMENT OF TOXICITY VALUE.—
The date on which the Administrator estab-
lishes a toxicity value for the perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances.
(B) SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE.—The date
on which the Administrator finalizes a sig-
nificant new use rule under subsection (a)(2)
of section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new
use rule promulgated in connection with an
order issued under subsection (e) of that sec-
tion, for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances.
(C) ADDITION TO EXISTING SIGNIFICANT NEW
USE RULE.—The date on which the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances is added to a list of substances
covered by a significant new use rule pre-
viously promulgated under subsection (a)(2)
of section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new
use rule promulgated in connection with an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.060 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3710 June 18, 2019
order issued under subsection (e) of that sec-
tion.
(D) ADDITION AS ACTIVE CHEMICAL SUB-
STANCE.—The date on which the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances that is on a list of substances
covered by a significant new use rule under
subsection (a)(2) of section 5 of the Toxic
Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), ex-
cept a significant new use rule promulgated
in connection with an order issued under
subsection (e) of that section, is—
(i) added to the inventory under subsection
(b)(1) of section 8 of the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607) and designated as
an active chemical substance under sub-
section (b)(5)(A) of that section; or
(ii) designated as an active chemical sub-
stance on the inventory in accordance with
subsection (b)(5)(B) of that section.
(2) THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the threshold for reporting under section
313(f)(1) of the Emergency Planning and
Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42
U.S.C. 11203(f)(1)) the substances and classes
of substances included in the toxics release
inventory under paragraph (1) is 100 pounds.
(B) REVISIONS.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall—
(i) determine whether revision of the
thresholds under subparagraph (A) is war-
ranted; and
(ii) if the Administrator determines a revi-
sion to be warranted under clause (i), ini-
tiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
(d) INCLUSION FOLLOWING DETERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To the extent not already
subject to subsection (b), not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Administrator shall determine
whether the substances and classes of sub-
stances described in paragraph (2) meet the
criteria described in section 313(d)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)) for
inclusion in the toxics release inventory.
(2) SUBSTANCES DESCRIBED.—The sub-
stances and classes of substances referred to
in paragraph (1) are perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, including—
(A) hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid
(Chemical Abstracts Service No. 13252–13–6);
(B) the compounds associated with the
chemical described in subparagraph (A)
(Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 62037–80–3
and 2062–98–8);
(C) perfluoro[(2-pentafluoroethoxy-
ethoxy)acetic acid] ammonium salt (Chem-
ical Abstracts Service No. 908020–52–0);
(D) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
hexafluoro)-2-(trifluoromethoxy) propanoyl
fluoride (Chemical Abstracts Service No.
2479–75–6);
(E) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
hexafluoro)-2-(trifluoromethoxy) propionic
acid (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 2479–73–
4);
(F) 3H-perfluoro-3-[(3-methoxy-propoxy)
propanoic acid] (Chemical Abstracts Service
No. 919005–14–4);
(G) the salts associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (F) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service Nos. 958445–44–8, 1087271–46–2,
and NOCASl892452);
(H) 1-octanesulfonic acid
3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8-tridecafluoro-potassium
salt (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 59587–
38–1);
(I) perfluorobutanesulfonic acid (Chemical
Abstracts Service No. 375–73–5);
(J) 1-Butanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
nonafluoro-potassium salt (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 29420–49–3);
(K) the component associated with the
chemical described in subparagraph (J)
(Chemical Abstracts Service No. 45187–15–3);
(L) heptafluorobutyric acid (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 375–22–4);
(M) perfluorohexanoic acid (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 307–24–4);
(N) each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkly
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances for which a meth-
od to measure levels in drinking water has
been validated by the Administrator; and
(O) a perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances other than the
chemicals described in subparagraphs (A)
through (N) that is used to manufacture
fluoropolymers, as determined by the Ad-
ministrator.
(3) ADDITION TO TOXICS RELEASE INVEN-
TORY.—Subject to subsection (e), if the Ad-
ministrator determines under paragraph (1)
that a substance or a class of substances de-
scribed in paragraph (2) meets the criteria
described in section 313(d)(2) of the Emer-
gency Planning and Community Right-To-
Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)), the
Administrator shall revise the toxics release
inventory to include that substance or class
of substances not later than 2 years after the
date on which the Administrator makes the
determination.
(e) CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Prior to including on the
toxics release inventory pursuant to sub-
section (b)(1), (c)(1), or (d)(3) any
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances the chemical identity of which is
subject to a claim of a person of protection
from disclosure under subsection (a) of sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code, pursu-
ant to subsection (b)(4) of that section, the
Administrator shall—
(A) review that claim of protection from
disclosure; and
(B) require that person to reassert and sub-
stantiate or resubstantiate that claim in ac-
cordance with section 14(f) of the Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(f)).
(2) NONDISCLOSURE OF PROTECTION INFORMA-
TION.—If the Administrator determines that
the chemical identity of a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
qualifies for protection from disclosure
under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall
include the substance or class of substances,
as applicable, on the toxics release inventory
in a manner that does not disclose the pro-
tected information.
(f) EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY
RIGHT-TO-KNOW ACT OF 1986.—Section 313(c)
of the Emergency Planning and Community
Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c))
is amended—
(1) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘are those chemicals’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘are—
‘‘(1) the chemicals’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) the chemicals included under sub-
sections (b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(3) of section
1711 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020.’’.
Subtitle B—Drinking Water
SEC. 1721. NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER
REGULATIONS FOR PFAS.
Section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) PERFLUOROALKYL AND
POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this subpara-
graph, the Administrator shall promulgate a
national primary drinking water regulation
for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, which shall, at a minimum, include
standards for—
‘‘(I) perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘PFOA’); and
‘‘(II) perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (com-
monly referred to as ‘PFOS’).
‘‘(ii) ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the validation by the Administrator of
an equally effective quality control and test-
ing procedure to ensure compliance with
that national primary drinking water regu-
lation to measure the levels described in sub-
clause (II) or other methods to detect and
monitor perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances in drinking water, the Adminis-
trator shall add the procedure or method as
an alternative to the quality control and
testing procedure described in that national
primary drinking water regulation by pub-
lishing the procedure or method in the Fed-
eral Register.
‘‘(II) LEVELS DESCRIBED.—The levels re-
ferred to in subclause (I) are—
‘‘(aa) the level of a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance;
‘‘(bb) the total levels of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
‘‘(cc) the total levels of organic fluorine.
‘‘(iii) INCLUSIONS.—The Administrator may
include a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances on—
‘‘(I) the list of contaminants for consider-
ation of regulation under paragraph (1)(B)(i);
and
‘‘(II) the list of unregulated contaminants
to be monitored under section
1445(a)(2)(B)(i).
‘‘(iv) MONITORING.—When establishing
monitoring requirements for public water
systems as part of a national primary drink-
ing water regulation under clause (i) or
clause (vi)(II), the Administrator shall tailor
the monitoring requirements for public
water systems that do not detect or are reli-
ably and consistently below the maximum
contaminant level (as defined in section
1418(b)(2)(B)) for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
subject to the national primary drinking
water regulation.
‘‘(v) HEALTH RISK REDUCTION AND COST
ANALYSIS.—In meeting the requirements of
paragraph (3)(C), the Administrator may rely
on information available to the Adminis-
trator with respect to 1 or more specific
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
to extrapolate reasoned conclusions regard-
ing the health risks and effects of a class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
of which the specific perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances are a part.
‘‘(vi) REGULATION OF ADDITIONAL SUB-
STANCES.—
‘‘(I) DETERMINATION.—The Administrator
shall make a determination under paragraph
(1)(A), using the criteria described in clauses
(i) through (iii) of that paragraph, whether
to include a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
in the national primary drinking water regu-
lation under clause (i) not later than 18
months after the later of—
‘‘(aa) the date on which the perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
is listed on the list of contaminants for con-
sideration of regulation under paragraph
(1)(B)(i); and
‘‘(bb) the date on which—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.076 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3711
June 18, 2019
‘‘(AA) the Administrator has received the
results of monitoring under section
1445(a)(2)(B) for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance;
or
‘‘(BB) the Administrator has received fin-
ished water data or finished water moni-
toring surveys for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
from a Federal or State agency that the Ad-
ministrator determines to be sufficient to
make a determination under paragraph
(1)(A).
‘‘(II) PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULA-
TIONS.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—For each perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
that the Administrator determines to regu-
late under subclause (I), the Administrator—
‘‘(AA) not later than 18 months after the
date on which the Administrator makes the
determination, shall propose a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation for the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances; and
‘‘(BB) may publish the proposed national
primary drinking water regulation described
in subitem (AA) concurrently with the publi-
cation of the determination to regulate the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances.
‘‘(bb) DEADLINE.—
‘‘(AA) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date on which the Administrator
publishes a proposed national primary drink-
ing water regulation under item (aa)(AA)
and subject to subitem (BB), the Adminis-
trator shall take final action on the proposed
national primary drinking water regulation.
‘‘(BB) EXTENSION.—The Administrator, on
publication of notice in the Federal Register,
may extend the deadline under subitem (AA)
by not more than 6 months.
‘‘(vii) LIFETIME DRINKING WATER HEALTH
ADVISORY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclause (II),
the Administrator shall publish a health ad-
visory under paragraph (1)(F) for a
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances not later than 1 year after the
later of—
‘‘(aa) the date on which the Administrator
finalizes a toxicity value for the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances; and
‘‘(bb) the date on which the Administrator
validates an effective quality control and
testing procedure for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance,
if such a procedure did not exist on the date
on which the toxicity value described in item
(aa) was finalized.
‘‘(II) WAIVER.—The Administrator may
waive the requirements of subclause (I) with
respect to a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances if the Administrator determines that
there is a substantial likelihood that the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances will not occur in drinking
water.’’.
SEC. 1722. MONITORING AND DETECTION.
(a) MONITORING PROGRAM FOR UNREGU-
LATED CONTAMINANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
include each substance described in para-
graph (2) in the fifth publication of the list of
unregulated contaminants to be monitored
under section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–
4(a)(2)(B)(i)).
(2) SUBSTANCES DESCRIBED.—The sub-
stances referred to in paragraph (1) are
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances and classes of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances—
(A) for which a method to measure the
level in drinking water has been validated by
the Administrator; and
(B) that are not subject to a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation under clause
(i) or (vi)(II) of subparagraph (D) of section
1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)).
(3) EXCEPTION.—The perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances included in the list of unregulated
contaminants to be monitored under section
1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–4(a)(2)(B)(i)) under para-
graph (1) shall not count towards the limit of
30 unregulated contaminants to be mon-
itored by public water systems under that
section.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall—
(A) require public water systems serving
more than 10,000 persons to monitor for the
substances described in subsection (a)(2);
(B) subject to paragraph (2) and the avail-
ability of appropriations, require public
water systems serving not fewer than 3,300
and not more than 10,000 persons to monitor
for the substances described in subsection
(a)(2); and
(C) subject to paragraph (2) and the avail-
ability of appropriations, ensure that only a
representative sample of public water sys-
tems serving fewer than 3,300 persons are re-
quired to monitor for the substances de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2).
(2) REQUIREMENT.—If the Administrator de-
termines that there is not sufficient labora-
tory capacity to carry out the monitoring
required under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of
paragraph (1), the Administrator may waive
the monitoring requirements in those sub-
paragraphs.
(3) FUNDS.—The Administrator shall pay
the reasonable cost of such testing and lab-
oratory analysis as is necessary to carry out
the monitoring required under paragraph (1)
from—
(A) funds made available under subsection
(a)(2)(H) or (j)(5) of section 1445 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–4); or
(B) any other funds made available for that
purpose.
SEC. 1723. ENFORCEMENT.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Administrator may not impose fi-
nancial penalties for the violation of a na-
tional primary drinking water regulation (as
defined in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f)) with respect to a
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances for which a national primary
drinking water regulation has been promul-
gated under clause (i) or (vi) of subparagraph
(D) of section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)) earlier than
the date that is 5 years after the date on
which the Administrator promulgates the
national primary drinking water regulation.
SEC. 1724. EMERGING CONTAMINANTS GRANTS.
Part E of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300j et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 1459E. EMERGING CONTAMINANTS GRANTS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection
(b), the Administrator shall establish a pro-
gram to provide grants to public water sys-
tems for the purpose of addressing emerging
contaminants, with a focus on perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED COMMU-
NITIES.—Not less than 25 percent of the
amounts made available to carry out this
section shall be used to provide grants to—
‘‘(A) public water systems serving dis-
advantaged communities (as defined in sec-
tion 1452(d)(3)); or
‘‘(B) public water systems serving fewer
than 25,000 persons.
‘‘(2) PRIORITIES.—In selecting recipients of
grants under subsection (a), the Adminis-
trator shall use the priorities described in
section 1452(b)(3)(A).
‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024, to remain
available until expended.’’.
Subtitle C—PFAS Detection
SEC. 1731. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the United States Geological
Survey.
(2) PERFLUORINATED COMPOUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘perfluorinated
compound’’ means a perfluoroalkyl sub-
stance or a polyfluoroalkyl substance that is
manmade with at least 1 fully fluorinated
carbon atom.
(B) DEFINITIONS.—In this definition:
(i) FULLY FLUORINATED CARBON ATOM.—The
term ‘‘fully fluorinated carbon atom’’ means
a carbon atom on which all the hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(ii) NONFLUORINATED CARBON ATOM.—The
term ‘‘nonfluorinated carbon atom’’ means a
carbon atom on which no hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(iii) PARTIALLY FLUORINATED CARBON
ATOM.—The term ‘‘partially fluorinated car-
bon atom’’ means a carbon atom on which
some, but not all, of the hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(iv) PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE.—The
term ‘‘perfluoroalkyl substance’’ means a
manmade chemical of which all of the car-
bon atoms are fully fluorinated carbon
atoms.
(v) POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE.—The
term ‘‘polyfluoroalkyl substance’’ means a
manmade chemical containing a mix of fully
fluorinated carbon atoms, partially
fluorinated carbon atoms, and
nonfluorinated carbon atoms.
SEC. 1732. PERFORMANCE STANDARD FOR THE
DETECTION OF PERFLUORINATED
COMPOUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall estab-
lish a performance standard for the detection
of perfluorinated compounds.
(b) EMPHASIS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In developing the per-
formance standard under subsection (a), the
Director shall emphasize the ability to de-
tect as many perfluorinated compounds
present in the environment as possible using
analytical methods that—
(A) achieve limits of quantitation (as de-
fined in the document of the United States
Geological Survey entitled ‘‘Analytical
Methods for Chemical Analysis of Geologic
and Other Materials, U.S. Geological Sur-
vey’’ and dated 2002); and
(B) are as sensitive as is feasible and prac-
ticable.
(2) REQUIREMENT.—In developing the per-
formance standard under subsection (a), the
Director may—
(A) develop quality assurance and quality
control measures to ensure accurate sam-
pling and testing;
(B) develop a training program with re-
spect to the appropriate method of sample
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.076 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3712 June 18, 2019
collection and analysis of perfluorinated
compounds; and
(C) coordinate with the Administrator, in-
cluding, if appropriate, coordinating to de-
velop media-specific, validated analytical
methods to detect individual and different
perfluorinated compounds simultaneously.
SEC. 1733. NATIONWIDE SAMPLING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall carry
out a nationwide sampling to determine the
concentration of perfluorinated compounds
in estuaries, lakes, streams, springs, wells,
wetlands, rivers, aquifers, and soil using the
performance standard developed under sec-
tion 1732(a).
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out the
sampling under subsection (a), the Director
shall—
(1) first carry out the sampling at sources
of drinking water near locations with known
or suspected releases of perfluorinated com-
pounds;
(2) when carrying out sampling of sources
of drinking water under paragraph (1), carry
out the sampling prior to any treatment of
the water;
(3) survey for ecological exposure to
perfluorinated compounds, with a priority in
determining direct human exposure through
drinking water; and
(4) consult with—
(A) States to determine areas that are a
priority for sampling; and
(B) the Administrator—
(i) to enhance coverage of the sampling;
and
(ii) to avoid unnecessary duplication.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the completion of the sampling under sub-
section (a), the Director shall prepare a re-
port describing the results of the sampling
and submit the report to—
(1) the Committee on Environment and
Public Works and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(3) the Senators of each State in which the
Director carried out the sampling; and
(4) each Member of the House of Represent-
atives that represents a district in which the
Director carried out the sampling.
SEC. 1734. DATA USAGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall pro-
vide the sampling data collected under sec-
tion 1733 to—
(1) the Administrator; and
(2) other Federal and State regulatory
agencies on request.
(b) USAGE.—The sampling data provided
under subsection (a) shall be used to inform
and enhance assessments of exposure, likely
health and environmental impacts, and re-
mediation priorities.
SEC. 1735. COLLABORATION.
In carrying out this subtitle, the Director
shall collaborate with—
(1) appropriate Federal and State regu-
lators;
(2) institutions of higher education;
(3) research institutions; and
(4) other expert stakeholders.
SEC. 1736. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Director to carry out this subtitle—
(1) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
(2) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2024.
Subtitle D—Safe Drinking Water Assistance
SEC. 1741. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONTAMINANT.—The term ‘‘contami-
nant’’ means any physical, chemical, biologi-
cal, or radiological substance or matter in
water.
(2) CONTAMINANT OF EMERGING CONCERN;
EMERGING CONTAMINANT.—The terms ‘‘con-
taminant of emerging concern’’ and ‘‘emerg-
ing contaminant’’ mean a contaminant—
(A) for which the Administrator has not
promulgated a national primary drinking
water regulation; and
(B) that may have an adverse effect on the
health of individuals.
(3) FEDERAL RESEARCH STRATEGY.—The
term ‘‘Federal research strategy’’ means the
coordinated cross-agency plan for addressing
critical research gaps related to detecting,
assessing exposure to, and identifying the
adverse health effects of emerging contami-
nants in drinking water developed by the Of-
fice of Science and Technology Policy in re-
sponse to the report of the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate accompanying S.
1662 of the 115th Congress (S. Rept. 115–139).
(4) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT.—
The term ‘‘technical assistance and support’’
includes—
(A) assistance with—
(i) identifying appropriate analytical
methods for the detection of contaminants;
(ii) understanding the strengths and limi-
tations of the analytical methods described
in clause (i);
(iii) troubleshooting the analytical meth-
ods described in clause (i);
(B) providing advice on laboratory certifi-
cation program elements;
(C) interpreting sample analysis results;
(D) providing training with respect to
proper analytical techniques;
(E) identifying appropriate technology for
the treatment of contaminants; and
(F) analyzing samples, if—
(i) the analysis cannot be otherwise ob-
tained in a practicable manner otherwise;
and
(ii) the capability and capacity to perform
the analysis is available at a Federal facil-
ity.
(5) WORKING GROUP.—The term ‘‘Working
Group’’ means the Working Group estab-
lished under section 1742(b)(1).
SEC. 1742. RESEARCH AND COORDINATION PLAN
FOR ENHANCED RESPONSE ON
EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator
shall—
(1) review Federal efforts—
(A) to identify, monitor, and assist in the
development of treatment methods for
emerging contaminants; and
(B) to assist States in responding to the
human health risks posed by contaminants
of emerging concern; and
(2) in collaboration with owners and opera-
tors of public water systems, States, and
other interested stakeholders, establish a
strategic plan for improving the Federal ef-
forts referred to in paragraph (1).
(b) INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON
EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall jointly establish a
Working Group to coordinate the activities
of the Federal Government to identify and
analyze the public health effects of drinking
water contaminants of emerging concern.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The Working Group shall
include representatives of the following:
(A) The Environmental Protection Agency,
appointed by the Administrator.
(B) The following agencies, appointed by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services:
(i) The National Institutes of Health.
(ii) The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.
(iii) The Agency for Toxic Substances and
Disease Registry.
(C) The United States Geological Survey,
appointed by the Secretary of the Interior.
(D) Any other Federal agency the assist-
ance of which the Administrator determines
to be necessary to carry out this subsection,
appointed by the head of the respective agen-
cy.
(3) EXISTING WORKING GROUP.—The Admin-
istrator may expand or modify the duties of
an existing working group to perform the du-
ties of the Working Group under this sub-
section.
(c) NATIONAL EMERGING CONTAMINANT RE-
SEARCH INITIATIVE.—
(1) FEDERAL RESEARCH STRATEGY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy (referred to in this subsection
as the ‘‘Director’’) shall coordinate with the
heads of the agencies described in subpara-
graph (C) to establish a research initiative,
to be known as the ‘‘National Emerging Con-
taminant Research Initiative’’, that shall—
(i) use the Federal research strategy to im-
prove the identification, analysis, moni-
toring, and treatment methods of contami-
nants of emerging concern; and
(ii) develop any necessary program, policy,
or budget to support the implementation of
the Federal research strategy, including
mechanisms for joint agency review of re-
search proposals, for interagency cofunding
of research activities, and for information
sharing across agencies.
(B) RESEARCH ON EMERGING CONTAMI-
NANTS.—In carrying out subparagraph (A),
the Director shall—
(i) take into consideration consensus con-
clusions from peer-reviewed, pertinent re-
search on emerging contaminants; and
(ii) in consultation with the Adminis-
trator, identify priority emerging contami-
nants for research emphasis.
(C) FEDERAL PARTICIPATION.—The agencies
referred to in subparagraph (A) include—
(i) the National Science Foundation;
(ii) the National Institutes of Health;
(iii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(iv) the National Institute of Standards
and Technology;
(v) the United States Geological Survey;
and
(vi) any other Federal agency that contrib-
utes to research in water quality, environ-
mental exposures, and public health, as de-
termined by the Director.
(D) PARTICIPATION FROM ADDITIONAL ENTI-
TIES.—In carrying out subparagraph (A), the
Director shall consult with nongovernmental
organizations, State and local governments,
and science and research institutions deter-
mined by the Director to have scientific or
material interest in the National Emerging
Contaminant Research Initiative.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION OF RESEARCH REC-
OMMENDATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date on which the Director and
heads of the agencies described in paragraph
(1)(C) establish the National Emerging Con-
taminant Research Initiative under para-
graph (1)(A), the head of each agency de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(C) shall—
(i) issue a solicitation for research pro-
posals consistent with the Federal research
strategy; and
(ii) make grants to applicants that submit
research proposals selected by the National
Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative
in accordance with subparagraph (B).
(B) SELECTION OF RESEARCH PROPOSALS.—
The National Emerging Contaminant Re-
search Initiative shall select research pro-
posals to receive grants under this paragraph
on the basis of merit, using criteria identi-
fied by the Director, including the likelihood
that the proposed research will result in sig-
nificant progress toward achieving the objec-
tives identified in the Federal research strat-
egy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.076 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3713
June 18, 2019
(C) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—Any entity or
group of 2 or more entities may submit to
the head of each agency described in para-
graph (1)(C) a research proposal in response
to the solicitation for research proposals de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i), including—
(i) State and local agencies;
(ii) public institutions, including public in-
stitutions of higher education;
(iii) private corporations; and
(iv) nonprofit organizations.
(d) FEDERAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
SUPPORT FOR STATES.—
(1) STUDY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall conduct a study on ac-
tions the Administrator can take to increase
technical assistance and support for States
with respect to emerging contaminants in
drinking water samples.
(B) CONTENTS OF STUDY.—In carrying out
the study described in subparagraph (A), the
Administrator shall identify—
(i) methods and effective treatment op-
tions to increase technical assistance and
support with respect to emerging contami-
nants to States, including identifying oppor-
tunities for States to improve communica-
tion with various audiences about the risks
associated with emerging contaminants;
(ii) means to facilitate access to qualified
contract testing laboratory facilities that
conduct analyses for emerging contami-
nants; and
(iii) actions to be carried out at existing
Federal laboratory facilities, including the
research facilities of the Administrator, to
provide technical assistance and support for
States that require testing facilities for
emerging contaminants.
(C) AVAILABILITY OF ANALYTICAL RE-
SOURCES.—In carrying out the study de-
scribed in subparagraph (A), the Adminis-
trator shall consider—
(i) the availability of—
(I) Federal and non-Federal laboratory ca-
pacity; and
(II) validated methods to detect and ana-
lyze contaminants; and
(ii) other factors determined to be appro-
priate by the Administrator.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall submit to Congress a re-
port describing the results of the study de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
(3) PROGRAM TO PROVIDE FEDERAL ASSIST-
ANCE TO STATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act,
based on the findings in the report described
in paragraph (2), the Administrator shall de-
velop a program to provide technical assist-
ance and support to eligible States for the
testing and analysis of emerging contami-
nants.
(B) APPLICATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible for tech-
nical assistance and support under this para-
graph, a State shall submit to the Adminis-
trator an application at such time, in such
manner, and containing such information as
the Administrator may require.
(ii) CRITERIA.—The Administrator shall
evaluate an application for technical assist-
ance and support under this paragraph on
the basis of merit using criteria identified by
the Administrator, including—
(I) the laboratory facilities available to the
State;
(II) the availability and applicability of ex-
isting analytical methodologies;
(III) the potency and severity of the emerg-
ing contaminant, if known; and
(IV) the prevalence and magnitude of the
emerging contaminant.
(iii) PRIORITIZATION.—In selecting States to
receive technical assistance and support
under this paragraph, the Administrator—
(I) shall give priority to States with af-
fected areas primarily in financially dis-
tressed communities;
(II) may—
(aa) waive the application process in an
emergency situation; and
(bb) require an abbreviated application
process for the continuation of work speci-
fied in a previously approved application
that continues to meet the criteria described
in clause (ii); and
(III) shall consider the relative expertise
and availability of—
(aa) Federal and non-Federal laboratory
capacity available to the State;
(bb) analytical resources available to the
State; and
(cc) other types of technical assistance
available to the State.
(C) DATABASE OF AVAILABLE RESOURCES.—
The Administrator shall establish and main-
tain a database of resources available
through the program developed under sub-
paragraph (A) to assist States with testing
for emerging contaminants that—
(i) is—
(I) available to States and stakeholder
groups determined by the Administrator to
have scientific or material interest in emerg-
ing contaminants, including—
(aa) drinking water and wastewater utili-
ties;
(bb) laboratories;
(cc) Federal and State emergency respond-
ers;
(dd) State primacy agencies;
(ee) public health agencies; and
(ff) water associations;
(II) searchable; and
(III) accessible through the website of the
Administrator; and
(ii) includes a description of—
(I) qualified contract testing laboratory fa-
cilities that conduct analyses for emerging
contaminants; and
(II) the resources available in Federal lab-
oratory facilities to test for emerging con-
taminants.
(D) WATER CONTAMINANT INFORMATION
TOOL.—The Administrator shall integrate
the database established under subparagraph
(C) into the Water Contaminant Information
Tool of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy.
(4) FUNDING.—Of the amounts available to
the Administrator, the Administrator may
use not more than $15,000,000 in a fiscal year
to carry out this subsection.
(e) REPORT.—Not less frequently than once
every 2 years until 2029, the Administrator
shall submit to Congress a report that de-
scribes the progress made in carrying out
this subtitle.
(f) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section modi-
fies any obligation of a State, local govern-
ment, or Indian Tribe with respect to treat-
ment methods for, or testing or monitoring
of, drinking water.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
SEC. 1751. PFAS DATA CALL.
Section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Con-
trol Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) PFAS DATA.—Not later than January
1, 2023, the Administrator shall promulgate a
rule in accordance with this subsection re-
quiring each person who has manufactured a
chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance in any year
since January 1, 2006, to submit to the Ad-
ministrator a report that includes, for each
year since January 1, 2006, the information
described in paragraph (2).’’.
SEC. 1752. SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE FOR
LONG-CHAIN PFAS.
Not later than June 22, 2020, the Adminis-
trator shall take final action on the signifi-
cant new use rule proposed by the Adminis-
trator under the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) in the proposed
rule entitled ‘‘Long-Chain Perfluoroalkyl
Carboxylate and Perfluoroalkyl Sulfonate
Chemical Substances; Significant New Use
Rule’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 2885 (January 21, 2015)).
SEC. 1753. PFAS DESTRUCTION AND DISPOSAL
GUIDANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall publish interim guid-
ance on the destruction and disposal of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances and materials containing
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, including—
(1) aqueous film-forming foam;
(2) soil and biosolids;
(3) textiles treated with perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
(4) spent filters, membranes, and other
waste from water treatment.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS; INCLUSIONS.—The in-
terim guidance under subsection (a) shall—
(1) take into consideration—
(A) the potential for releases of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances during destruction or disposal, in-
cluding through volatilization, air disper-
sion, or leachate; and
(B) potentially vulnerable populations liv-
ing near likely destruction or disposal sites;
and
(2) provide guidance on testing and moni-
toring air, effluent, and soil near potential
destruction or disposal sites for releases de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(A).
(c) REVISIONS.—The Administrator shall
publish revisions to the interim guidance
under subsection (a) as the Administrator
determines to be appropriate, but not less
frequently than once every 3 years.
SEC. 1754. PFAS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator, act-
ing through the Assistant Administrator for
the Office of Research and Development,
shall—
(1)(A) further examine the effects of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances on human health and the environ-
ment; and
(B) make publicly available information
relating to the findings under subparagraph
(A);
(2) develop a process for prioritizing which
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, or classes of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances, should be sub-
ject to additional research or regulatory ef-
forts that is based on—
(A) the potential for human exposure to
the substances or classes of substances;
(B) the potential toxicity of the substances
or classes of substances; and
(C) information available about the sub-
stances or classes of substances;
(3) develop new tools to characterize and
identify perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances in the environment, including in
drinking water, wastewater, surface water,
groundwater, solids, and the air;
(4) evaluate approaches for the remedi-
ation of contamination by perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the envi-
ronment; and
(5) develop and implement new tools and
materials to communicate with the public
about perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances.
(b) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be ap-
propriated to the Administrator to carry out
this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.076 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3714 June 18, 2019
SA 704. Mr. PAUL (for himself and
Mr. WYDEN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
Subtitle ll—Congressional Approval of
National Emergencies
SEC. ll01. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Reform-
ing Emergency Powers to Uphold the Bal-
ances and Limitations Inherent in the Con-
stitution Act’’ or the ‘‘REPUBLIC Act’’.
SEC. ll02. CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF NA-
TIONAL EMERGENCY DECLARA-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 201 of the Na-
tional Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1621) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 201. DECLARATION AND CONGRESSIONAL
APPROVAL OF NATIONAL EMER-
GENCIES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—With respect to Acts of
Congress authorizing the exercise, during the
period of a national emergency, of any spe-
cial or extraordinary power, the President is
authorized to declare such national emer-
gency. Such proclamation shall immediately
be transmitted to Congress and published in
the Federal Register.
‘‘(b) SPECIFICATION OF POWERS AND AU-
THORITIES.—The President shall specify, in
the proclamation declaring a national emer-
gency under subsection (a) or in one or more
contemporaneous or subsequent Executive
orders published in the Federal Register and
transmitted to Congress, the provisions of
law made available for use in the event of an
emergency pursuant to which the President
proposes that the President, or another offi-
cial, will exercise emergency powers or au-
thorities.
‘‘(c) TERMINATION AFTER 72 HOURS UNLESS
APPROVED BY CONGRESS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), a national emergency declared
under subsection (a), and the exercise of
emergency powers and authorities pursuant
to provisions of law described in subsection
(b), shall terminate at the time specified in
paragraph (3).
‘‘(2) APPROVAL BY CONGRESS REQUIRED.—A
national emergency declared under sub-
section (a), and the exercise of any emer-
gency power or authority pursuant to a pro-
vision of law described in subsection (b), may
continue after the time specified in para-
graph (3) only if, before that time, there is
enacted into law a joint resolution of ap-
proval pursuant to subsection (f) approving—
‘‘(A) the declaration of the emergency; and
‘‘(B) the exercise of that power or author-
ity.
‘‘(3) TIME SPECIFIED.—The time specified in
this paragraph is—
‘‘(A) except as provided in subparagraph
(B), 72 hours after the President declares the
national emergency; or
‘‘(B) if Congress is unable to convene dur-
ing the 72-hour period described in subpara-
graph (A), 72 hours after Congress first con-
venes after the declaration of the emergency.
‘‘(d) TERMINATION AFTER 90 DAYS UNLESS
RENEWED WITH CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL.—
A national emergency declared under sub-
section (a) with respect to which a joint res-
olution of approval is enacted under sub-
section (f), and the exercise of any emer-
gency power or authority pursuant to that
emergency, shall terminate on the date that
is 90 days after the President declares the
emergency (or the emergency was previously
renewed under this subsection), unless, be-
fore the termination of the emergency—
‘‘(1) the President publishes in the Federal
Register and transmits to Congress an Exec-
utive order—
‘‘(A) renewing the emergency; and
‘‘(B) specifying the provisions of law made
available for use in the event of an emer-
gency pursuant to which the President pro-
poses that the President, or another official,
will exercise emergency powers or authori-
ties; and
‘‘(2) there is enacted a joint resolution of
approval with respect to—
‘‘(A) the renewal of the emergency; and
‘‘(B) the exercise of that power or author-
ity.
‘‘(e) PROHIBITION ON SUBSEQUENT ACTIONS IF
EMERGENCIES NOT APPROVED.—
‘‘(1) SUBSEQUENT DECLARATIONS.—If a joint
resolution of approval is not enacted pursu-
ant to subsection (f) with respect to a na-
tional emergency declared under subsection
(a) or proposed to be renewed under sub-
section (d), the President may not, during
the remainder of the term of office of that
President, declare a subsequent national
emergency under subsection (a) with respect
to the same circumstances.
‘‘(2) EXERCISE OF AUTHORITIES.—If a joint
resolution of approval is not enacted pursu-
ant to subsection (f) with respect to a power
or authority proposed by the President under
subsection (b) to be exercised with respect to
a national emergency, the President may
not, during the remainder of the term of of-
fice of that President, exercise that power or
authority with respect to that emergency.
‘‘(f) JOINT RESOLUTIONS OF APPROVAL.—
‘‘(1) JOINT RESOLUTION OF APPROVAL DE-
FINED.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘joint resolution of approval’ means a
joint resolution that contains after its re-
solving clause—
‘‘(A) a provision approving—
‘‘(i) a proclamation of a national emer-
gency made under subsection (a);
‘‘(ii) an Executive order issued under sub-
section (b) specifying the provisions of law
pursuant to which the President proposes to
exercise emergency powers or authorities; or
‘‘(iii) an Executive order issued under sub-
section (d) renewing a national emergency;
and
‘‘(B) a provision approving a list of all or
some of the provisions of law specified by the
President under subsection (b) and included
in the proclamation or Executive order, as
the case may be.
‘‘(2) INTRODUCTION.—After the President
transmits to Congress a proclamation de-
scribed in clause (i) of paragraph (1)(A) or an
Executive order described in clause (ii) or
(iii) of that paragraph, a joint resolution of
approval may be introduced in either House
of Congress by any Member of that House.
‘‘(3) COMMITTEE REFERRAL.—A joint resolu-
tion of approval shall be referred in each
House of Congress to the committee or com-
mittees having jurisdiction over the emer-
gency powers and authorities invoked by the
proclamation or Executive order that is the
subject of the joint resolution.
‘‘(4) CONSIDERATION IN SENATE.—
‘‘(A) REPORTING AND DISCHARGE.—If the
committee to which a joint resolution of ap-
proval has been referred has not reported it
at the end of 2 calendar days after its intro-
duction, that committee shall be automati-
cally discharged from further consideration
of the resolution and it shall be placed on
the calendar.
‘‘(B) PROCEEDING TO CONSIDERATION.—Not-
withstanding Rule XXII of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, when the committee to
which a joint resolution of approval is re-
ferred has reported the resolution, or when
that committee is discharged under subpara-
graph (A) from further consideration of the
resolution, it is at any time thereafter in
order (even though a previous motion to the
same effect has been disagreed to) for a mo-
tion to proceed to the consideration of the
joint resolution, and all points of order
against the joint resolution (and against
consideration of the joint resolution) are
waived. The motion to proceed is not debat-
able. The motion is not subject to amend-
ment, or to a motion to postpone, or to a
motion to proceed to the consideration of
other business.
‘‘(C) AMENDMENTS.—No amendments shall
be in order with respect to a joint resolution
of approval, except for amendments that
strike provisions from the list of provisions
of law required by paragraph (1)(B) or other-
wise narrow the scope of emergency powers
and authorities authorized to be exercised
pursuant to such provisions of law.
‘‘(D) MOTION TO RECONSIDER FINAL VOTE.—A
motion to reconsider a vote on final passage
of a joint resolution of approval shall not be
in order.
‘‘(E) APPEALS.—Points of order, including
questions of relevancy, and appeals from the
decision of the Presiding Officer, shall be de-
cided without debate.
‘‘(5) CONSIDERATION IN HOUSE OF REPRESENT-
ATIVES.—In the House of Representatives, if
any committee to which a joint resolution of
approval has been referred has not reported
it to the House at the end of 2 calendar days
after its introduction, that committee shall
be discharged from further consideration of
the joint resolution, and the resolution shall
be placed on the appropriate calendar. It
shall be in order at any time for the Speaker
to recognize a Member who favors passage of
a joint resolution to call up that joint reso-
lution for immediate consideration in the
House without intervention of any point of
order. When so called up a joint resolution
shall be considered as read and shall be de-
batable for 1 hour equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent. It
shall not be in order to reconsider the vote
on passage.
‘‘(6) RECEIPT OF RESOLUTION FROM OTHER
HOUSE.—If, before passing a joint resolution
of approval, one House receives a joint reso-
lution of approval from the other House,
then—
‘‘(A) the joint resolution of the other
House shall not be referred to a committee
and shall be deemed to have been discharged
from committee on the day it is received;
and
‘‘(B) the procedures set forth in paragraph
(4) or (5), as applicable, shall apply in the re-
ceiving House to the joint resolution re-
ceived from the other House to the same ex-
tent as such procedures apply to a joint reso-
lution of the receiving House.
‘‘(g) EFFECT OF LATER-ENACTED LAWS.—No
law enacted after the date of the enactment
of this Act shall supersede this title unless it
does so in specific terms, referring to this
title, and declaring that the new law super-
sedes the provisions of this title.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—The Na-
tional Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 202—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘declared by the President in ac-
cordance with this title’’ and inserting ‘‘in
effect under section 201’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.072 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3715
June 18, 2019
(ii) in the flush text, by striking ‘‘declared
by the President’’ and inserting ‘‘in effect
under section 201’’;
(B) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph
(5); and
(C) by amending subsection (d) to read as
follows:
‘‘(d) Subsection (b) and section 201(f) are
enacted by Congress—
‘‘(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives, respectively, and as such they are
deemed a part of the rules of each House, re-
spectively, but applicable only with respect
to the procedure to be followed in the House
in the case of resolutions described by this
title, and they supersede other rules only to
the extent that they are inconsistent there-
with; and
‘‘(2) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of either House to change the
rules (so far as relating to the procedure of
that House) at any time, in the same man-
ner, and to the same extent as in the case of
any other rule of that House.’’.
(2) by striking title III.
SEC. ll03. REPEAL OF EMERGENCY AUTHORITY
TO SUSPEND TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Section 706 of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 606) is amended by striking
subsection (c).
SEC. ll04. APPLICABILITY.
Except as provided in section ll06(a), the
amendments made by this subtitle shall
apply with respect to national emergencies
declared under section 201 of the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1621) on or after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. ll05. TERMINATION OF EXISTING EMER-
GENCY DECLARATIONS.
Each national emergency declared under
section 201 of the National Emergencies Act
(50 U.S.C. 1621) before the date of the enact-
ment of this Act (other than a national
emergency described in section ll06(b))
shall terminate on such date of enactment.
SEC. ll06. NONAPPLICABILITY WITH RESPECT
TO INTERNATIONAL EMERGENCY
ECONOMIC POWERS ACT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a national
emergency declared on or after the date of
the enactment of this Act under which the
President proposes to exercise emergency
powers and authorities pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)—
(1) the amendments made by this subtitle
shall not apply; and
(2) the provisions of the National Emer-
gencies Act, as in effect on the day before
such date of enactment, shall apply.
(b) CONTINUATION IN EFFECT OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS.—A national
emergency declared before the date of the
enactment of this Act under which the Presi-
dent exercises emergency powers and au-
thorities pursuant to the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.) shall—
(1) continue in effect on and after such
date of enactment; and
(2) terminate in accordance with the provi-
sions of the National Emergencies Act, as in
effect on the day before such date of enact-
ment.
SA 705. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1045. PROHIBITION ON THE INDEFINITE DE-
TENTION OF PERSONS BY THE
UNITED STATES.
(a) LIMITATION ON DETENTION.—Section 4001
of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) No person shall be imprisoned or oth-
erwise detained by the United States except
consistent with the Constitution.’’;
(2) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b)(1) A general authorization to use mili-
tary force, a declaration of war, or any simi-
lar authority, on its own, shall not be con-
strued to authorize the imprisonment or de-
tention without charge or trial of a person
apprehended in the United States.
‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) applies to an authoriza-
tion to use military force, a declaration of
war, or any similar authority enacted before,
on, or after the date of the enactment of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020.
‘‘(3) This section shall not be construed to
authorize the imprisonment or detention of
any person who is apprehended in the United
States.’’.
(b) REPEAL OF AUTHORITY OF THE ARMED
FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES TO DETAIN
COVERED PERSONS PURSUANT TO THE AUTHOR-
IZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY FORCE.—Sec-
tion 1021 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law
112–81; 10 U.S.C. 801 note) is repealed.
SA 706. Mr. ROMNEY (for himself,
Ms. MCSALLY, and Ms. SINEMA) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by him to the bill S. 1790, to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 10ll. NAVAJO NATION WATER RIGHTS SET-
TLEMENT.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are—
(1) to achieve a fair, equitable, and final
settlement of all claims to water rights in
the State of Utah for—
(A) the Navajo Nation; and
(B) the United States, for the benefit of the
Nation;
(2) to authorize, ratify, and confirm the
Agreement entered into by the Nation and
the State, to the extent that the Agreement
is consistent with this section;
(3) to authorize and direct the Secretary—
(A) to execute the Agreement; and
(B) to take any actions necessary to carry
out the agreement in accordance with this
section; and
(4) to authorize funds necessary for the im-
plementation of the Agreement and this sec-
tion.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘agreement’’
means—
(A) the document entitled ‘‘Navajo Utah
Water Rights Settlement Agreement’’ dated
December 14, 2015, and the exhibits attached
thereto; and
(B) any amendment or exhibit to the docu-
ment or exhibits referenced in subparagraph
(A) to make the document or exhibits con-
sistent with this section.
(2) ALLOTMENT.—The term ‘‘allotment’’
means a parcel of land—
(A) granted out of the public domain that
is—
(i) located within the exterior boundaries
of the Reservation; or
(ii) Bureau of Indian Affairs parcel number
792 634511 in San Juan County, Utah, con-
sisting of 160 acres located in Township 41S,
Range 20E, sections 11, 12, and 14, originally
set aside by the United States for the benefit
of an individual identified in the allotting
document as a Navajo Indian; and
(B) held in trust by the United States—
(i) for the benefit of an individual, individ-
uals, or an Indian Tribe other than the Nav-
ajo Nation; or
(ii) in part for the benefit of the Navajo
Nation as of the enforceability date.
(3) ALLOTTEE.—The term ‘‘allottee’’ means
an individual or Indian Tribe with a bene-
ficial interest in an allotment held in trust
by the United States.
(4) ENFORCEABILITY DATE.—The term ‘‘en-
forceability date’’ means the date on which
the Secretary publishes in the Federal Reg-
ister the statement of findings described in
subsection (g)(1).
(5) GENERAL STREAM ADJUDICATION.—The
term ‘‘general stream adjudication’’ means
the adjudication pending, as of the date of
enactment, in the Seventh Judicial District
in and for Grand County, State of Utah, com-
monly known as the ‘‘Southeastern Colorado
River General Adjudication’’, Civil No.
810704477, conducted pursuant to State law.
(6) INJURY TO WATER RIGHTS.—The term
‘‘injury to water rights’’ means an inter-
ference with, diminution of, or deprivation
of water rights under Federal or State law,
excluding injuries to water quality.
(7) MEMBER.—The term ‘‘member’’ means
any person who is a duly enrolled member of
the Navajo Nation.
(8) NAVAJO NATION OR NATION.—The term
‘‘Navajo Nation’’ or ‘‘Nation’’ means a body
politic and federally recognized Indian na-
tion, as published on the list established
under section 104(a) of the Federally Recog-
nized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C.
5131(a)), also known variously as the ‘‘Navajo
Nation’’, the ‘‘Navajo Nation of Arizona, New
Mexico, & Utah’’, and the ‘‘Navajo Nation of
Indians’’ and other similar names, and in-
cludes all bands of Navajo Indians and chap-
ters of the Navajo Nation and all divisions,
agencies, officers, and agents thereof.
(9) NAVAJO WATER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS.—The term ‘‘Navajo water develop-
ment projects’’ means projects for domestic
municipal water supply, including distribu-
tion infrastructure, and agricultural water
conservation, to be constructed, in whole or
in part, using monies from the Navajo Water
Development Projects Account.
(10) NAVAJO WATER RIGHTS.—The term
‘‘Navajo water rights’’ means the Nation’s
water rights in Utah described in the agree-
ment and this section.
(11) OM&R.—The term ‘‘OM&R’’ means op-
eration, maintenance, and replacement.
(12) PARTIES.—The term ‘‘parties’’ means
the Navajo Nation, the State, and the United
States.
(13) RESERVATION.—The term ‘‘Reserva-
tion’’ means, for purposes of the agreement
and this section, the Reservation of the Nav-
ajo Nation in Utah as in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act and depicted
on the map attached to the agreement as Ex-
hibit A, including any parcel of land granted
out of the public domain and held in trust by
the United States entirely for the benefit of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.072 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3716 June 18, 2019
the Navajo Nation as of the enforceability
date.
(14) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the United States
Department of the Interior or a duly author-
ized representative thereof.
(15) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah and all officers, agents, depart-
ments, and political subdivisions thereof.
(16) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United
States’’ means the United States of America
and all departments, agencies, bureaus, offi-
cers, and agents thereof.
(17) UNITED STATES ACTING IN ITS TRUST CA-
PACITY.—The term ‘‘United States acting in
its trust capacity’’ means the United States
acting for the benefit of the Navajo Nation
or for the benefit of allottees.
(c) RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT.—
(1) APPROVAL BY CONGRESS.—Except to the
extent that any provision of the agreement
conflicts with this section, Congress ap-
proves, ratifies, and confirms the agreement
(including any amendments to the agree-
ment that are executed to make the agree-
ment consistent with this section).
(2) EXECUTION BY SECRETARY.—The Sec-
retary is authorized and directed to prompt-
ly execute the agreement to the extent that
the agreement does not conflict with this
section, including—
(A) any exhibits to the agreement requir-
ing the signature of the Secretary; and
(B) any amendments to the agreement nec-
essary to make the agreement consistent
with this section.
(3) ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In implementing the
agreement and this section, the Secretary
shall comply with all applicable provisions
of—
(i) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
(ii) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
(iii) all other applicable environmental
laws and regulations.
(B) EXECUTION OF THE AGREEMENT.—Execu-
tion of the agreement by the Secretary as
provided for in this section shall not con-
stitute a major Federal action under the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
(d) NAVAJO WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) CONFIRMATION OF NAVAJO WATER
RIGHTS.—
(A) QUANTIFICATION.—The Navajo Nation
shall have the right to use water from water
sources located within Utah and adjacent to
or encompassed within the boundaries of the
Reservation resulting in depletions not to
exceed 81,500 acre-feet annually as described
in the agreement and as confirmed in the de-
cree entered by the general stream adjudica-
tion court.
(B) SATISFACTION OF ALLOTTEE RIGHTS.—De-
pletions resulting from the use of water on
an allotment shall be accounted for as a de-
pletion by the Navajo Nation for purposes of
depletion accounting under the agreement,
including recognition of—
(i) any water use existing on an allotment
as of the date of enactment of this Act and
as subsequently reflected in the hydro-
graphic survey report referenced in sub-
section (f)(2);
(ii) reasonable domestic and stock water
uses put into use on an allotment; and
(iii) any allotment water rights that may
be decreed in the general stream adjudica-
tion or other appropriate forum.
(C) SATISFACTION OF ON-RESERVATION STATE
LAW-BASED WATER RIGHTS.—Depletions re-
sulting from the use of water on the Reserva-
tion pursuant to State law-based water
rights existing as of the date of enactment of
this Act shall be accounted for as depletions
by the Navajo Nation for purposes of deple-
tion accounting under the agreement.
(D) IN GENERAL.—The Navajo water rights
are ratified, confirmed, and declared to be
valid.
(E) USE.—Any use of the Navajo water
rights shall be subject to the terms and con-
ditions of the agreement and this section.
(F) CONFLICT.—In the event of a conflict
between the agreement and this section, the
provisions of this section shall control.
(2) TRUST STATUS OF NAVAJO WATER
RIGHTS.—The Navajo water rights—
(A) shall be held in trust by the United
States for the use and benefit of the Nation
in accordance with the agreement and this
section; and
(B) shall not be subject to forfeiture or
abandonment.
(3) AUTHORITY OF THE NATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Nation shall have the
authority to allocate, distribute, and lease
the Navajo water rights for any use on the
Reservation in accordance with the agree-
ment, this section, and applicable Tribal and
Federal law.
(B) OFF-RESERVATION USE.—The Nation
may allocate, distribute, and lease the Nav-
ajo water rights for off-Reservation use in
accordance with the agreement, subject to
the approval of the Secretary.
(C) ALLOTTEE WATER RIGHTS.—The Nation
shall not object in the general stream adju-
dication or other applicable forum to the
quantification of reasonable domestic and
stock water uses on an allotment, and shall
administer any water use on the Reservation
in accordance with applicable Federal law,
including recognition of—
(i) any water use existing on an allotment
as of the date of enactment of this Act and
as subsequently reflected in the hydro-
graphic survey report referenced in sub-
section (f)(2);
(ii) reasonable domestic and stock water
uses on an allotment; and
(iii) any allotment water rights decreed in
the general stream adjudication or other ap-
propriate forum.
(4) EFFECT.—Except as otherwise expressly
provided in this section, nothing in this sec-
tion—
(A) authorizes any action by the Nation
against the United States under Federal,
State, Tribal, or local law; or
(B) alters or affects the status of any ac-
tion brought pursuant to section 1491(a) of
title 28, United States Code.
(e) NAVAJO TRUST ACCOUNTS.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish a trust fund, to be known as the
‘‘Navajo Utah Settlement Trust Fund’’ (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Trust
Fund’’), to be managed, invested, and distrib-
uted by the Secretary and to remain avail-
able until expended, consisting of the
amounts deposited in the Trust Fund under
paragraph (3), together with any interest
earned on those amounts, for the purpose of
carrying out this section.
(2) ACCOUNTS.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish in the Trust Fund the following Ac-
counts:
(A) The Navajo Water Development
Projects Account.
(B) The Navajo OM&R Account.
(3) DEPOSITS.—The Secretary shall deposit
in the Trust Fund Accounts—
(A) in the Navajo Water Development
Projects Account, the amounts made avail-
able pursuant to subsection (f)(1)(A); and
(B) in the Navajo OM&R Account, the
amount made available pursuant to sub-
section (f)(1)(B).
(4) MANAGEMENT AND INTEREST.—
(A) MANAGEMENT.—Upon receipt and de-
posit of the funds into the Trust Fund Ac-
counts, the Secretary shall manage, invest,
and distribute all amounts in the Trust Fund
in a manner that is consistent with the in-
vestment authority of the Secretary under—
(i) the first section of the Act of June 24,
1938 (25 U.S.C. 162a);
(ii) the American Indian Trust Fund Man-
agement Reform Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 4001 et
seq.); and
(iii) this subsection.
(B) INVESTMENT EARNINGS.—In addition to
the deposits under paragraph (3), any invest-
ment earnings, including interest, credited
to amounts held in the Trust Fund are au-
thorized to be appropriated to be used in ac-
cordance with the uses described in para-
graph (8).
(5) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—Amounts
appropriated to, and deposited in, the Trust
Fund, including any investment earnings,
shall be made available to the Nation by the
Secretary beginning on the enforceability
date and subject to the uses and restrictions
set forth in this subsection.
(6) WITHDRAWALS.—
(A) WITHDRAWALS UNDER THE AMERICAN IN-
DIAN TRUST FUND MANAGEMENT REFORM ACT
OF 1994.—The Nation may withdraw any por-
tion of the funds in the Trust Fund on ap-
proval by the Secretary of a tribal manage-
ment plan submitted by the Nation in ac-
cordance with the American Indian Trust
Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (25
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.).
(i) REQUIREMENTS.—In addition to the re-
quirements under the American Indian Trust
Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (25
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Tribal management
plan under this subparagraph shall require
that the Nation shall spend all amounts
withdrawn from the Trust Fund and any in-
vestment earnings accrued through the in-
vestments under the Tribal management
plan in accordance with this section.
(ii) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may
carry out such judicial and administrative
actions as the Secretary determines to be
necessary to enforce the Tribal management
plan to ensure that amounts withdrawn by
the Nation from the Trust Fund under this
subparagraph are used in accordance with
this section.
(B) WITHDRAWALS UNDER EXPENDITURE
PLAN.—The Nation may submit to the Sec-
retary a request to withdraw funds from the
Trust Fund pursuant to an approved expendi-
ture plan.
(i) REQUIREMENTS.—To be eligible to with-
draw funds under an expenditure plan under
this subparagraph, the Nation shall submit
to the Secretary for approval an expenditure
plan for any portion of the Trust Fund that
the Nation elects to withdraw pursuant to
this subparagraph, subject to the condition
that the funds shall be used for the purposes
described in this section.
(ii) INCLUSIONS.—An expenditure plan
under this subparagraph shall include a de-
scription of the manner and purpose for
which the amounts proposed to be withdrawn
from the Trust Fund will be used by the Na-
tion, in accordance with paragraphs (3) and
(8).
(iii) APPROVAL.—On receipt of an expendi-
ture plan under this subparagraph, the Sec-
retary shall approve the plan, if the Sec-
retary determines that the plan—
(I) is reasonable;
(II) is consistent with, and will be used for,
the purposes of this section; and
(III) contains a schedule which described
that tasks will be completed within 18
months of receipt of withdrawn amounts.
(iv) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may
carry out such judicial and administrative
actions as the Secretary determines to be
necessary to enforce an expenditure plan to
ensure that amounts disbursed under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.063 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3717
June 18, 2019
subparagraph are used in accordance with
this section.
(7) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this sec-
tion gives the Nation the right to judicial re-
view of a determination of the Secretary re-
garding whether to approve a Tribal manage-
ment plan or an expenditure plan except
under subchapter II of chapter 5, and chapter
7, of title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Administrative Procedure
Act’’).
(8) USES.—Amounts from the Trust Fund
shall be used by the Nation for the following
purposes:
(A) The Navajo Water Development
Projects Account shall be used to plan, de-
sign, and construct the Navajo water devel-
opment projects and for the conduct of re-
lated activities, including to comply with
Federal environmental laws.
(B) The Navajo OM&R Account shall be
used for the operation, maintenance, and re-
placement of the Navajo water development
projects.
(9) LIABILITY.—The Secretary and the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall not be liable for
the expenditure or investment of any
amounts withdrawn from the Trust Fund by
the Nation under paragraph (8).
(10) NO PER CAPITA DISTRIBUTIONS.—No por-
tion of the Trust Fund shall be distributed
on a per capita basis to any member of the
Nation.
(11) EXPENDITURE REPORTS.—The Navajo
Nation shall submit to the Secretary annu-
ally an expenditure report describing accom-
plishments and amounts spent from use of
withdrawals under a Tribal management
plan or an expenditure plan as described in
this section.
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized
to be appropriated to the Secretary—
(A) for deposit in the Navajo Water Devel-
opment Projects Account of the Trust Fund
established under subsection (e)(2)(A),
$198,300,000, which funds shall be retained
until expended, withdrawn, or reverted to
the general fund of the Treasury; and
(B) for deposit in the Navajo OM&R Ac-
count of the Trust Fund established under
subsection (e)(2)(B), $11,100,000, which funds
shall be retained until expended, withdrawn,
or reverted to the general fund of the Treas-
ury.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION COSTS.—There is au-
thorized to be appropriated non-trust funds
in the amount of $1,000,000 to assist the
United States with costs associated with the
implementation of this section, including
the preparation of a hydrographic survey of
historic and existing water uses on the Res-
ervation and on allotments.
(3) STATE COST SHARE.—The State shall
contribute $8,000,000 payable to the Sec-
retary for deposit into the Navajo Water De-
velopment Projects Account of the Trust
Fund established under subsection (e)(2)(A)
in installments in each of the 3 years fol-
lowing the execution of the agreement by
the Secretary as provided for in subsection
(c)(2).
(4) FLUCTUATION IN COSTS.—The amount au-
thorized to be appropriated under paragraph
(1) shall be increased or decreased, as appro-
priate, by such amounts as may be justified
by reason of ordinary fluctuations in costs
occurring after the date of enactment of this
Act as indicated by the Bureau of Reclama-
tion Construction Cost Index—Composite
Trend.
(A) REPETITION.—The adjustment process
under this paragraph shall be repeated for
each subsequent amount appropriated until
the amount authorized, as adjusted, has been
appropriated.
(B) PERIOD OF INDEXING.—The period of in-
dexing adjustment for any increment of
funding shall end on the date on which funds
are deposited into the Trust Fund.
(g) CONDITIONS PRECEDENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The waivers and release
contained in subsection (h) shall become ef-
fective as of the date the Secretary causes to
be published in the Federal Register a state-
ment of findings that—
(A) to the extent that the agreement con-
flicts with this section, the agreement has
been revised to conform with this section;
(B) the agreement, so revised, including
waivers and releases of claims set forth in
subsection (h), has been executed by the par-
ties, including the United States;
(C) Congress has fully appropriated, or the
Secretary has provided from other author-
ized sources, all funds authorized under sub-
section (f)(1);
(D) the State has enacted any necessary
legislation and provided the funding required
under the agreement and subsection (f)(3);
and
(E) the court has entered a final or inter-
locutory decree that—
(i) confirms the Navajo water rights con-
sistent with the agreement and this section;
and
(ii) with respect to the Navajo water
rights, is final and nonappealable.
(2) EXPIRATION DATE.—If all the conditions
precedent described in paragraph (1) have not
been fulfilled to allow the Secretary’s state-
ment of findings to be published in the Fed-
eral Register by October 31, 2030—
(A) the agreement and this section, includ-
ing waivers and releases of claims described
in those documents, shall no longer be effec-
tive;
(B) any funds that have been appropriated
pursuant to subsection (f) but not expended,
including any investment earnings on funds
that have been appropriated pursuant to
such subsection, shall immediately revert to
the general fund of the Treasury; and
(C) any funds contributed by the State pur-
suant to subsection (f)(3) but not expended
shall be returned immediately to the State.
(3) EXTENSION.—The expiration date set
forth in paragraph (2) may be extended if the
Navajo Nation, the State, and the United
States (acting through the Secretary) agree
that an extension is reasonably necessary.
(h) WAIVERS AND RELEASES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) WAIVER AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS BY THE
NATION AND THE UNITED STATES ACTING IN ITS
CAPACITY AS TRUSTEE FOR THE NATION.—Sub-
ject to the retention of rights set forth in
paragraph (3), in return for confirmation of
the Navajo water rights and other benefits
set forth in the agreement and this section,
the Nation, on behalf of itself and the mem-
bers of the Nation (other than members in
their capacity as allottees), and the United
States, acting as trustee for the Nation and
members of the Nation (other than members
in their capacity as allottees), are authorized
and directed to execute a waiver and release
of—
(i) all claims for water rights within Utah
based on any and all legal theories that the
Navajo Nation or the United States acting in
its trust capacity for the Nation, asserted, or
could have asserted, at any time in any pro-
ceeding, including to the general stream ad-
judication, up to and including the enforce-
ability date, except to the extent that such
rights are recognized in the agreement and
this section; and
(ii) all claims for damages, losses, or inju-
ries to water rights or claims of interference
with, diversion, or taking of water rights (in-
cluding claims for injury to lands resulting
from such damages, losses, injuries, inter-
ference with, diversion, or taking of water
rights) within Utah against the State, or any
person, entity, corporation, or municipality,
that accrued at any time up to and including
the enforceability date.
(2) CLAIMS BY THE NAVAJO NATION AGAINST
THE UNITED STATES.—The Navajo Nation, on
behalf of itself (including in its capacity as
allottee) and its members (other than mem-
bers in their capacity as allottees), shall exe-
cute a waiver and release of—
(A) all claims the Navajo Nation may have
against the United States relating in any
manner to claims for water rights in, or
water of, Utah that the United States acting
in its trust capacity for the Nation asserted,
or could have asserted, in any proceeding, in-
cluding the general stream adjudication;
(B) all claims the Navajo Nation may have
against the United States relating in any
manner to damages, losses, or injuries to
water, water rights, land, or other resources
due to loss of water or water rights (includ-
ing damages, losses, or injuries to hunting,
fishing, gathering, or cultural rights due to
loss of water or water rights; claims relating
to interference with, diversion, or taking of
water; or claims relating to failure to pro-
tect, acquire, replace, or develop water or
water rights) within Utah that first accrued
at any time up to and including the enforce-
ability date;
(C) all claims the Nation may have against
the United States relating in any manner to
the litigation of claims relating to the Na-
tion’s water rights in proceedings in Utah;
and
(D) all claims the Nation may have against
the United States relating in any manner to
the negotiation, execution, or adoption of
the agreement or this section.
(3) RESERVATION OF RIGHTS AND RETENTION
OF CLAIMS BY THE NAVAJO NATION AND THE
UNITED STATES.—Notwithstanding the waiv-
ers and releases authorized in this section,
the Navajo Nation, and the United States
acting in its trust capacity for the Nation,
retain—
(A) all claims for injuries to and the en-
forcement of the agreement and the final or
interlocutory decree entered in the general
stream adjudication, through such legal and
equitable remedies as may be available in
the decree court or the Federal District
Court for the District of Utah;
(B) all rights to use and protect water
rights acquired after the enforceability date;
(C) all claims relating to activities affect-
ing the quality of water, including any
claims under the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq. (includ-
ing claims for damages to natural re-
sources)), the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300f et seq.), and the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.),
the regulations implementing those Acts,
and the common law;
(D) all claims for water rights, and claims
for injury to water rights, in states other
than the State of Utah;
(E) all claims, including environmental
claims, under any laws (including regula-
tions and common law) relating to human
health, safety, or the environment; and
(F) all rights, remedies, privileges, immu-
nities, and powers not specifically waived
and released pursuant to the agreement and
this section.
(4) EFFECT.—Nothing in the agreement or
this section—
(A) affects the ability of the United States
acting in its sovereign capacity to take ac-
tions authorized by law, including any laws
relating to health, safety, or the environ-
ment, including the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), the
Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et
seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Solid Waste
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.063 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3718 June 18, 2019
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), and the
regulations implementing those laws;
(B) affects the ability of the United States
to take actions in its capacity as trustee for
any other Indian Tribe or allottee;
(C) confers jurisdiction on any State court
to—
(i) interpret Federal law regarding health,
safety, or the environment or determine the
duties of the United States or other parties
pursuant to such Federal law; and
(ii) conduct judicial review of Federal
agency action; or
(D) modifies, conflicts with, preempts, or
otherwise affects—
(i) the Boulder Canyon Project Act (43
U.S.C. 617 et seq.);
(ii) the Boulder Canyon Project Adjust-
ment Act (43 U.S.C. 618 et seq.);
(iii) the Act of April 11, 1956 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Colorado River Storage
Project Act’’) (43 U.S.C. 620 et seq.);
(iv) the Colorado River Basin Project Act
(43 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.);
(v) the Treaty between the United States
of America and Mexico respecting utilization
of waters of the Colorado and Tijuana Rivers
and of the Rio Grande, signed at Washington
February 3, 1944 (59 Stat. 1219);
(vi) the Colorado River Compact of 1922, as
approved by the Presidential Proclamation
of June 25, 1929 (46 Stat. 3000); and
(vii) the Upper Colorado River Basin Com-
pact as consented to by the Act of April 6,
1949 (63 Stat. 31, chapter 48).
(5) TOLLING OF CLAIMS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each applicable period of
limitation and time-based equitable defense
relating to a claim waived by the Navajo Na-
tion described in this subsection shall be
tolled for the period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act and ending on the en-
forceability date.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this paragraph re-
vives any claim or tolls any period of limita-
tion or time-based equitable defense that ex-
pired before the date of enactment of this
Act.
(C) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this sub-
section precludes the tolling of any period of
limitations or any time-based equitable de-
fense under any other applicable law.
(i) MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.—
(1) PRECEDENT.—Nothing in this section es-
tablishes any standard for the quantification
or litigation of Federal reserved water rights
or any other Indian water claims of any
other Indian Tribe in any other judicial or
administrative proceeding.
(2) OTHER INDIAN TRIBES.—Nothing in the
agreement or this section shall be construed
in any way to quantify or otherwise ad-
versely affect the water rights, claims, or en-
titlements to water of any Indian Tribe,
band, or community, other than the Navajo
Nation.
(j) RELATION TO ALLOTTEES.—
(1) NO EFFECT ON CLAIMS OF ALLOTTEES.—
Nothing in this section or the agreement
shall affect the rights or claims of allottees,
or the United States, acting in its capacity
as trustee for or on behalf of allottees, for
water rights or damages related to lands al-
lotted by the United States to allottees, ex-
cept as provided in subsection (d)(1)(B).
(2) RELATIONSHIP OF DECREE TO
ALLOTTEES.—Allottees, or the United States,
acting in its capacity as trustee for
allottees, are not bound by any decree en-
tered in the general stream adjudication
confirming the Navajo water rights and shall
not be precluded from making claims to
water rights in the general stream adjudica-
tion. Allottees, or the United States, acting
in its capacity as trustee for allottees, may
make claims and such claims may be adju-
dicated as individual water rights in the gen-
eral stream adjudication.
(k) ANTIDEFICIENCY.—The United States
shall not be liable for any failure to carry
out any obligation or activity authorized by
this section (including any obligation or ac-
tivity under the agreement) if adequate ap-
propriations are not provided expressly by
Congress to carry out the purposes of this
section.
SA 707. Mrs. HYDE-SMITH (for her-
self, Ms. CANTWELL, and Mr. DAINES)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by her to the bill S. 1790, to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, insert
the following:
SEC. 1086. DESIGNATING THE WEEK OF SEP-
TEMBER 29 THROUGH OCTOBER 5,
2019, AS ‘‘GOLD STAR FAMILIES RE-
MEMBRANCE WEEK’’.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The last Sunday in September—
(A) is designated as ‘‘Gold Star Mother’s
Day’’ under section 111 of title 36, United
States Code; and
(B) was first designated as ‘‘Gold Star
Mother’s Day’’ under the Joint Resolution
entitled ‘‘Joint Resolution designating the
last Sunday in September as ‘Gold Star
Mother’s Day’, and for other purposes’’, ap-
proved June 23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895).
(2) There is no date dedicated to families
affected by the loss of a loved one who died
in service to the United States.
(3) A gold star symbolizes a family member
who died in the line of duty while serving in
the Armed Forces.
(4) The members and veterans of the
Armed Forces, through their service, bear
the burden of protecting the freedom of the
people of the United States.
(5) The selfless example of the service of
the members and veterans of the Armed
Forces, as well as the sacrifices made by the
families of those individuals, inspires all in-
dividuals in the United States to sacrifice
and work diligently for the good of the
United States.
(6) The sacrifices of the families of the fall-
en members of the Armed Forces and the
families of veterans of the Armed Forces
should never be forgotten.
(b) DESIGNATING THE WEEK OF SEPTEMBER
29 THROUGH OCTOBER 5, 2019, AS ‘‘GOLD STAR
FAMILIES REMEMBRANCE WEEK’’.—Congress—
(1) designates the week of September 29
through October 5, 2019, as ‘‘Gold Star Fami-
lies Remembrance Week’’;
(2) honors and recognizes the sacrifices
made by the families of members of the
Armed Forces who have made the ultimate
sacrifice in order to defend freedom and pro-
tect the United States and by the families of
veterans of the Armed Forces; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to observe Gold Star Families Re-
membrance Week by—
(A) performing acts of service and goodwill
in their communities; and
(B) celebrating families in which loved
ones have made the ultimate sacrifice so
that others could continue to enjoy life, lib-
erty, and the pursuit of happiness.
SA 708. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
ROMNEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC.ll LAND CONVEYANCE, HILL AIR FORCE
BASE, OGDEN, UTAH.
(a) CONVEYANCE REQUIRED.—The Secretary
of the Air Force may convey, for no mone-
tary consideration, to the State of Utah or a
designee of the State of Utah (in this section
referred to as the ‘‘State’’) all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to a
parcel of real property, including improve-
ments thereon, consisting of approximately
35 acres located at Hill Air Force Base com-
monly known as the ‘‘Defense Nontactical
Generator and Rail Center’’ and such real
property adjacent to the Center as the par-
ties consider to be appropriate, for the pur-
pose of permitting the State to construct a
new interchange for Interstate 15.
(b) CONDITION PRECEDENT.—The convey-
ance authorized by subsection (a) shall be
contingent upon the relocation of the De-
fense Nontactical Generator and Rail Center.
(c) TERMINATION AND REENTRY.—If the
State does not meet the conditions required
under subsection (d) by the date that is five
years after the date of the conveyance au-
thorized by subsection (a), or such later date
as the Secretary of the Air Force and the
State may agree is reasonably necessary due
to unexpected circumstances, the Secretary
of the Air Force may terminate such convey-
ance and reenter the property.
(d) CONSIDERATION AND CONDITIONS OF CON-
VEYANCE.—In consideration of and as a con-
dition to the conveyance authorized by sub-
section (a), the State shall agree to the fol-
lowing:
(1) Not later than two years after the con-
veyance, the State shall, at no cost to the
United States Government—
(A) demolish all improvements and associ-
ated infrastructure existing on the property;
and
(B) conduct environmental cleanup and re-
mediation of the property, as required by law
and approved by the Utah Department of En-
vironmental Quality, for the planned rede-
velopment and use of the property.
(2) Not later than three years after the
completion of the cleanup and remediation
under paragraph (1)(B), the State, at no cost
to the United States Government, shall con-
struct on Hill Air Force Base a new gate for
vehicular and pedestrian traffic in and out of
Hill Air Force Base in compliance with all
applicable construction and security require-
ments and such other requirements as the
Secretary of the Air Force may consider nec-
essary.
(3) That the State shall coordinate the
demolition, cleanup, remediation, design, re-
development, and construction activities
performed pursuant to the conveyance under
subsection (a) with the Secretary of the Air
Force, the Utah Department of Transpor-
tation, and the Utah Department of Environ-
mental Quality.
(e) ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS.—The
State shall not have any obligation with re-
spect to cleanup and remediation of an envi-
ronmental condition on the property to be
conveyed under subsection (a) unless the
condition was in existence and known before
the date of the conveyance or the State exac-
erbates the condition which then requires
further remediation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.063 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3719
June 18, 2019
(f) PAYMENT OF COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—
(1) PAYMENT REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
the Air Force shall require the State to
cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary,
or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs
incurred, to carry out the conveyance under
subsection (a), including survey costs, costs
for environmental documentation, and other
administrative costs related to the convey-
ance. If amounts are collected from the
State in advance of the Secretary incurring
actual costs, and the amount collected ex-
ceeds the costs actually incurred by the Sec-
retary to carry out the conveyance, the Sec-
retary shall refund the excess amount to the
State.
(2) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—
Amounts received as reimbursement under
paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or
account that was used to cover the costs in-
curred by the Secretary in carrying out the
conveyance under subsection (a) or to an ap-
propriate fund or account currently avail-
able to the Secretary for the purposes for
which the costs were paid. Amounts so cred-
ited shall be merged with amounts in such
fund or account and shall be available for the
same purposes, and subject to the same con-
ditions and limitations, as amounts in such
fund or account.
(g) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY.—The exact
acreage and legal description of the property
to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be
determined by a survey satisfactory to the
Secretary of the Air Force and the State.
SA 709. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle I of title VIII, add
the following:
SEC. 811. PROHIBITION ON THE USE OF A RE-
VERSE AUCTION FOR THE AWARD
OF A CONTRACT FOR DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES.
(a) PROHIBITION.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be
amended to prohibit the use of reverse auc-
tions for awarding contracts for design and
construction services.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘design and construction serv-
ices’’ means—
(A) site planning and landscape design;
(B) architectural and engineering services
(as defined in section 1102 of title 40, United
States Code);
(C) interior design;
(D) performance of substantial construc-
tion work for facility, infrastructure, and en-
vironmental restoration projects;
(E) delivery and supply of construction ma-
terials to construction sites; or
(F) construction or substantial alteration
of public buildings or public works; and
(2) the term ‘‘reverse auction’’ means, with
respect to any procurement by an executive
agency—
(A) a real-time auction conducted through
an electronic medium among 2 or more
offerors who compete by submitting bids for
a supply or service contract, or a delivery
order, task order, or purchase order under
the contract, with the ability to submit re-
vised lower bids at any time before the clos-
ing of the auction; and
(B) the award of the contract, delivery
order, task order, or purchase order to the
offeror, in whole or in part, based on the
price obtained through the auction process.
SA 710. Mr. YOUNG submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1018. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE NAMING
OF A DDG–51 CLASS VESSEL IN
HONOR OF THE HONORABLE RICH-
ARD G LUGAR.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The Honorable Richard G. Lugar was
born in Indianapolis, Indiana in 1932 and
graduated from Shortridge High School in
1950 in Indianapolis, Indiana, as an Eagle
Scout and American Legion Boys Nation del-
egate.
(2) The Honorable Richard G. Lugar volun-
teered for the United States Navy and served
his country as an officer from 1957–1960, in-
cluding as an intelligence briefer to the
Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Arleigh
Burke.
(3) The Honorable Richard G. Lugar was
elected to the United States Senate in 1976,
and served from January 3, 1977, to January
3, 2013.
(4) The Honorable Richard G. Lugar was
one of only two senators in history to serve
34 years on the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate, including two terms as
chair from 1985 to 1987 and from 2003 to 2007.
(5) As a leader in reducing the threat of nu-
clear, chemical, and biological weapons, the
Honorable Richard G. Lugar passed and
oversaw the implementation of the bipar-
tisan Nunn-Lugar program, which deacti-
vated more than 7,600 nuclear warheads, mil-
lions of chemical munitions, and several
thousand nuclear capable missiles, and con-
tinues to perform non-proliferation missions
in more than 40 countries.
(6) The Honorable Richard G. Lugar played
an essential role in the enactment of sanc-
tions on the Apartheid government of South
Africa, the United States recognition of
President Corazon Aquino as the winner of
the 1986 Philippines election, the expansion
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
alliance, the construction and passage of the
United States President’s Emergency Plan
for AIDS Relief initiative to combat the
global AIDS epidemic, and the ratification of
numerous arms control and anti-terrorism
treaties.
(7) On November 20, 2013, the Honorable
Richard G. Lugar was awarded the Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom.
(8) On April 28, 2019, at 87 years of age, the
Honorable Richard G. Lugar died in Falls
Church, Virginia.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Secretary of the Navy
should name the next unnamed vessel of the
DDG–51 Flight III class of destroyer warship
in honor of the Honorable Richard G. Lugar.
SA 711. Mr. INHOFE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 108lll. PENSACOLA DAM AND RESERVOIR,
GRAND RIVER, OKLAHOMA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) since the Pensacola Dam and Reservoir
began construction in 1938—
(A) the jurisdiction of the Commission has
consistently been limited to areas within the
project boundary; and
(B) the Secretary of the Army has held ex-
clusive jurisdiction over flood control oper-
ations, including areas inside and outside the
project boundary; and
(2) the jurisdictional responsibilities of the
Commission and the Secretary described in
paragraph (1) should be maintained and con-
tinued.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to clarify Federal authorities and respon-
sibilities relating to the Pensacola Dam and
Reservoir.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission.
(2) CONSERVATION POOL.—The term ‘‘con-
servation pool’’ means all land and water of
Grand Lake O’ the Cherokees, Oklahoma,
below elevation 745 feet (Pensacola Datum).
(3) FLOOD POOL.—The term ‘‘flood pool’’
means all land and water of Grand Lake O’
the Cherokees, Oklahoma, subject to flood
control operations of the Secretary pursuant
to section 7 of the Act of December 22, 1944
(58 Stat. 890, chapter 665; 33 U.S.C. 709).
(4) PROJECT.—The term ‘‘project’’ means
the Pensacola Hydroelectric Project (FERC
No. 1494).
(5) PROJECT BOUNDARY.—The term ‘‘project
boundary’’ means the area—
(A) designated as within the project bound-
ary in the maps under Exhibit G approved in
the Commission Order Issuing New License,
dated April 24, 1992; and
(B) which generally encompasses, to the
extent of the interests of the project li-
censee—
(i) the Pensacola Dam and powerhouse;
(ii) Grand Lake O’ the Cherokees, Okla-
homa;
(iii) the shoreline areas of the conservation
pool below approximately elevation 750 feet
(Pensacola Datum); and
(iv) facilities appurtenant to hydropower
operations and areas of maintenance under
the Commission license.
(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Army.
(d) CONSERVATION POOL MANAGEMENT.—
(1) FEDERAL LAND.—Notwithstanding sec-
tion 3(2) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C.
796(2)), Federal land within the project
boundary, including any right, title, or in-
terest in or to land held by the United States
for any purpose, shall not be considered to
be—
(A) a reservation for purposes of section
4(e) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 797(e));
(B) land or other property of the United
States for purposes of recompensing the
United States for the use, occupancy, or en-
joyment of the land under section 10(e)(1) of
that Act (16 U.S.C. 803(e)(1)); or
(C) land of the United States for purposes
of section 24 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 818).
(2) LICENSE CONDITIONS.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the Commission
shall not include in any license for the
project any condition or other requirement
relating to—
(A) surface elevations of the conservation
pool or flood pool; or
(B) land or water outside the project
boundary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.071 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3720 June 18, 2019
(3) PROJECT SCOPE.—
(A) LICENSING JURISDICTION.—The licensing
jurisdiction of the Commission for the
project shall not extend to any land or water
outside the project boundary.
(B) OUTSIDE INFRASTRUCTURE.—Any land,
water, or physical infrastructure or other
improvement outside the project boundary
shall not be considered to be part of the
project.
(C) BOUNDARY AMENDMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
amend the project boundary only as re-
quested by the project licensee.
(ii) DENIAL OF REQUEST.—The Commission
may deny a request to amend a project
boundary under clause (i) if the Commission
determines that the request is inconsistent
with the requirements of part I of the Fed-
eral Power Act (16 U.S.C. 792 et seq.).
(e) FLOOD POOL MANAGEMENT.—
(1) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the Sec-
retary shall have exclusive jurisdiction and
responsibility for management of the flood
pool for flood control operations at Grand
Lake O’ the Cherokees.
(2) PROPERTY ACQUISITION.—If a feasibility
study or other investigation determines that
flood control operations at or associated
with Pensacola Dam, including any back-
water effect, may result in the inundation of,
or damage to, land outside the project
boundary to which the United States does
not hold flowage rights or holds insufficient
flowage rights, the project licensee shall not
have any obligation to obtain or enhance
those flowage rights.
(f) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section affects, with respect to the project—
(1) any authority or obligation of the Sec-
retary or the Chief of Engineers pursuant to
section 2 of the Act of June 28, 1938 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Flood Control Act of
1938’’) (33 U.S.C. 701c–1);
(2) any authority of the Secretary or the
Chief of Engineers pursuant to section 7 of
the Act of December 22, 1944 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Flood Control Act of 1944’’)
(33 U.S.C. 709);
(3) any obligation of the United States to
obtain flowage or other property rights pur-
suant to the Act of July 31, 1946 (60 Stat. 743,
chapter 710);
(4) any obligation of the United States to
acquire flowage or other property rights for
additional reservoir storage pursuant to Ex-
ecutive Order 9839 (12 Fed. Reg. 2447; relating
to the Grand River Dam Project);
(5) any authority of the Secretary to ac-
quire real property interest pursuant to sec-
tion 560 of the Water Resources Development
Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–303; 110 Stat.
3783);
(6) any obligation of the Secretary to con-
duct and pay the cost of a feasibility study
pursuant to section 449 of the Water Re-
sources Development Act of 2000 (Public Law
106–541; 114 Stat. 2641);
(7) the National Flood Insurance Program
established under the National Flood Insur-
ance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), in-
cluding any policy issued under that Act; or
(8) any disaster assistance made available
under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.) or other Federal disaster assist-
ance program.
SA 712. Mr. SANDERS (for himself
and Mrs. CAPITO) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 342. REPORT ON FLUORINATED AQUEOUS
FILM FORMING FOAM.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to Congress a report
on—
(1) the location and amount of the stock-
piled fluorinated aqueous film forming foam
in the possession of the Department of De-
fense that contains perfluorooctanoic acid
(PFOA) or perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS);
and
(2) the amount of such foam that has been
destroyed during the 10-year period ending of
the date of the enactment of this Act and the
method and location of destruction.
SA 713. Mr. CARDIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1061. REPORT ON DEATHS OF MEMBERS OF
THE ARMED FORCES IN TRAINING.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to Congress a report
setting forth the results of a study, con-
ducted by the Secretary for purposes of the
report, on recent deaths of members of the
Armed Forces in training. The report shall
include the following:
(1) A description of recent deaths of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces in training.
(2) An assessment whether trends are
emerging in the circumstances surrounding
such deaths, and a description of any such
trends.
(3) A description and assessment of recent
deaths and injuries resulting from vehicle
rollovers, and recommendations for actions
to prevent or minimize such deaths and inju-
ries.
(4) Such other matters as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
SA 714. Mr. BURR (for himself and
Mr. WARNER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This division may be
cited as the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Mat-
thew Young Pollard Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this division is as follows:
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified schedule of authoriza-
tions.
Sec. 103. Intelligence community manage-
ment account.
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DIS-
ABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE III—INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
MATTERS
Subtitle A—General Intelligence Community
Matters
Sec. 301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Sec. 302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 303. Improving the onboarding method-
ology for certain intelligence
personnel.
Sec. 304. Intelligence community public-pri-
vate talent exchange.
Sec. 305. Expansion of scope of protections
for identities of covert agents.
Sec. 306. Inclusion of security risks in pro-
gram management plans re-
quired for acquisition of major
systems in National Intel-
ligence Program.
Sec. 307. Paid parental leave.
Subtitle B—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Sec. 311. Exclusivity, consistency, and
transparency in security clear-
ance procedures and right to
appeal.
Sec. 312. Limitation on transfer of National
Intelligence University.
Sec. 313. Improving visibility into the secu-
rity clearance process.
Sec. 314. Making certain policies and execu-
tion plans relating to personnel
clearances available to industry
partners.
Subtitle C—Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community
Sec. 321. Definitions.
Sec. 322. Inspector General external review
panel.
Sec. 323. Harmonization of whistleblower
processes and procedures.
Sec. 324. Intelligence community oversight
of agency whistleblower ac-
tions.
Sec. 325. Report on cleared whistleblower at-
torneys.
TITLE IV—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Sec. 401. Study on foreign employment of
former personnel of intelligence
community.
Sec. 402. Comprehensive economic assess-
ment of investment in key
United States technologies by
companies or organizations
linked to China.
Sec. 403. Analysis of and periodic briefings
on major initiatives of intel-
ligence community in artificial
intelligence and machine learn-
ing.
Sec. 404. Encouraging cooperative actions to
detect and counter foreign in-
fluence operations.
Sec. 405. Oversight of foreign influence in
academia.
Sec. 406. Director of National Intelligence
report on fifth-generation wire-
less network technology.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:15 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.070 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3721
June 18, 2019
Sec. 407. Annual report by Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States on cy-
bersecurity and surveillance
threats to Congress.
Sec. 408. Director of National Intelligence
assessments of foreign inter-
ference in elections.
Sec. 409. Study on feasibility and advis-
ability of establishing
Geospatial-Intelligence Mu-
seum and learning center.
Sec. 410. Report on death of Jamal
Khashoggi.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in such section.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2020 for the conduct of
the intelligence and intelligence-related ac-
tivities of the following elements of the
United States Government:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5) The National Security Agency.
(6) The Department of the Army, the De-
partment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force.
(7) The Coast Guard.
(8) The Department of State.
(9) The Department of the Treasury.
(10) The Department of Energy.
(11) The Department of Justice.
(12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13) The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
(14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(16) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.
(a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS.—The
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
section 101 for the conduct of the intel-
ligence activities of the elements listed in
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are
those specified in the classified Schedule of
Authorizations prepared to accompany this
division.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE
OF AUTHORIZATIONS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY.—The classified Schedule
of Authorizations referred to in subsection
(a) shall be made available to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives, and to the President.
(2) DISTRIBUTION BY THE PRESIDENT.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (3), the President shall pro-
vide for suitable distribution of the classified
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in
subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of
such Schedule, within the executive branch.
(3) LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE.—The President
shall not publicly disclose the classified
Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of
such Schedule except—
(A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Im-
plementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
(B) to the extent necessary to implement
the budget; or
(C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGE-
MENT ACCOUNT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account of the Director of National Intel-
ligence for fiscal year 2020 the sum of
$558,000,000.
(b) CLASSIFIED AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
Community Management Account by sub-
section (a), there are authorized to be appro-
priated for the Intelligence Community Man-
agement Account for fiscal year 2020 such ad-
ditional amounts as are specified in the clas-
sified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
in section 102(a).
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-
TEM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal
year 2020.
TITLE III—INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
MATTERS
Subtitle A—General Intelligence Community
Matters
SEC. 301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTEL-
LIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
The authorization of appropriations by
this division shall not be deemed to con-
stitute authority for the conduct of any in-
telligence activity which is not otherwise
authorized by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States.
SEC. 302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSA-
TION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED
BY LAW.
Appropriations authorized by this division
for salary, pay, retirement, and other bene-
fits for Federal employees may be increased
by such additional or supplemental amounts
as may be necessary for increases in such
compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 303. IMPROVING THE ONBOARDING METH-
ODOLOGY FOR CERTAIN INTEL-
LIGENCE PERSONNEL.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Select Committee on Intelligence
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate; and
(B) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives.
(2) COVERED ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY.—The term ‘‘covered elements of
the intelligence community’’ means the ele-
ments of the intelligence community that
are within the following:
(A) The Department of Energy.
(B) The Department of Homeland Security.
(C) The Department of Justice.
(D) The Department of State.
(E) The Department of the Treasury.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
and the Director of National Intelligence
shall, consistent with Department of Defense
Instruction 1400.25, as in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act—
(1) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report
that outlines a common methodology for
measuring onboarding in covered elements of
the intelligence community, including
human resources and security processes;
(2) not later than 1 year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, issue metrics for
assessing key phases in the onboarding de-
scribed in paragraph (1) for which results
will be reported by the date that is 90 days
after the date of such issuance;
(3) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report on
collaboration among covered elements of the
intelligence community on their onboarding
processes;
(4) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report on
employment of automated mechanisms in
covered elements of the intelligence commu-
nity, including for tracking personnel as
they pass through each phase of the
onboarding process; and
(5) not later than December 31, 2020, dis-
tribute surveys to human resources offices
and applicants about their experiences with
the onboarding process in covered elements
of the intelligence community.
SEC. 304. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PUBLIC-
PRIVATE TALENT EXCHANGE.
(a) POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND PROCEDURES
REQUIRED.—Not later than 270 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall develop
policies, processes, and procedures to facili-
tate the rotation of personnel of the intel-
ligence community to the private sector, and
personnel from the private sector to the in-
telligence community.
(b) DETAIL AUTHORITY.—Under policies de-
veloped by the Director pursuant to sub-
section (a), with the agreement of a private-
sector organization, and with the consent of
the employee, a head of an element of the in-
telligence community may arrange for the
temporary detail of an employee of such ele-
ment to such private-sector organization, or
from such private-sector organization to
such element under this section.
(c) AGREEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A head of an element of
the intelligence community exercising the
authority of the head under subsection (a)
shall provide for a written agreement among
the element of the intelligence community,
the private-sector organization, and the em-
ployee concerned regarding the terms and
conditions of the employee’s detail under
this section. The agreement—
(A) shall require that the employee of the
element, upon completion of the detail, serve
in the element, or elsewhere in the civil
service if approved by the head of the ele-
ment, for a period of at least equal to the
length of the detail;
(B) shall provide that if the employee of
the element fails to carry out the agreement,
such employee shall be liable to the United
States for payment of all non-salary and
benefit expenses of the detail, unless that
failure was for good and sufficient reason, as
determined by the head of the element;
(C) shall contain language informing such
employee of the prohibition on improperly
sharing or using non-public information that
such employee may be privy to or aware of
related to element programming, budgeting,
resourcing, acquisition, or procurement for
the benefit or advantage of the private-sec-
tor organization; and
(D) shall contain language requiring the
employee to acknowledge the obligations of
the employee under section 1905 of title 18,
United States Code (relating to trade se-
crets).
(2) AMOUNT OF LIABILITY.—An amount for
which an employee is liable under paragraph
(1) shall be treated as a debt due the United
States.
(3) WAIVER.—The head of an element of the
intelligence community may waive, in whole
or in part, collection of a debt described in
paragraph (2) based on a determination that
the collection would be against equity and
good conscience and not in the best interests
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3722 June 18, 2019
of the United States, after taking into ac-
count any indication of fraud, misrepresen-
tation, fault, or lack of good faith on the
part of the employee.
(d) TERMINATION.—A detail under this sec-
tion may, at any time and for any reason, be
terminated by the head of the element of the
intelligence community concerned or the
private-sector organization concerned.
(e) DURATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A detail under this sec-
tion shall be for a period of not less than 3
months and not more than 2 years, renew-
able up to a total of 3 years.
(2) LONGER PERIODS.—A detail under this
section may be for a period in excess of 2
years, but not more than 3 years, if the head
of the element making the detail determines
that such detail is necessary to meet critical
mission or program requirements.
(3) LIMITATION.—No employee of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community may be
detailed under this section for more than a
total of 5 years, inclusive of all such details.
(f) STATUS OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES DE-
TAILED TO PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An employee of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community who is
detailed to a private-sector organization
under this section shall be considered, during
the period of detail, to be on a regular work
assignment in the element for all purposes.
The written agreement established under
subsection (c)(1) shall address the specific
terms and conditions related to the employ-
ee’s continued status as a Federal employee.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—In establishing a tem-
porary detail of an employee of an element
of the intelligence community to a private-
sector organization, the head of the element
shall—
(A) certify that the temporary detail of
such employee shall not have an adverse or
negative impact on mission attainment or
organizational capabilities associated with
the detail; and
(B) in the case of an element of the intel-
ligence community in the Department of De-
fense, ensure that the normal duties and
functions of such employees are not, as a re-
sult of and during the course of such tem-
porary detail, performed or augmented by
contractor personnel in violation of the pro-
visions of section 2461 of title 10, United
States Code.
(g) TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR PRIVATE-
SECTOR EMPLOYEES.—An employee of a pri-
vate-sector organization who is detailed to
an element of the intelligence community
under this section—
(1) shall continue to receive pay and bene-
fits from the private-sector organization
from which such employee is detailed and
shall not receive pay or benefits from the
element, except as provided in paragraph (2);
(2) is deemed to be an employee of the ele-
ment for the purposes of—
(A) chapters 73 and 81 of title 5, United
States Code;
(B) sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 209, 603,
606, 607, 643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of title 18,
United States Code;
(C) sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title
31, United States Code;
(D) chapter 171 of title 28, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort
Claims Act’’) and any other Federal tort li-
ability statute;
(E) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.); and
(F) chapter 21 of title 41, United States
Code;
(3) may perform work that is considered in-
herently governmental in nature only when
requested in writing by the head of the ele-
ment;
(4) may not be used to circumvent any lim-
itation or restriction on the size of the work-
force of the element;
(5) shall be subject to the same require-
ments applicable to an employee performing
the same functions and duties proposed for
performance by the private sector employee;
and
(6) in the case of an element of the intel-
ligence community in the Department of De-
fense, may not be used to circumvent the
provisions of section 2461 of title 10, United
States Code.
(h) PROHIBITION AGAINST CHARGING CERTAIN
COSTS TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—A pri-
vate-sector organization may not charge an
element of the intelligence community or
any other agency of the Federal Govern-
ment, as direct costs under a Federal con-
tract, the costs of pay or benefits paid by the
organization to an employee detailed to an
element of the intelligence community
under this section for the period of the detail
and any subsequent renewal periods.
(i) ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS.—
In carrying out this section, the Director,
pursuant to procedures developed under sub-
section (a)—
(1) shall, to the degree practicable, ensure
that small business concerns are represented
with respect to details authorized by this
section;
(2) may, notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, establish criteria for elements of
the intelligence community to use appro-
priated funds to reimburse small business
concerns for the salaries and benefits of its
employees during the periods when the small
business concern agrees to detail its employ-
ees to the intelligence community under this
section;
(3) shall take into consideration the ques-
tion of how details under this section might
best be used to help meet the needs of the in-
telligence community, including with re-
spect to the training of employees;
(4) shall take into consideration areas of
private-sector expertise that are critical to
the intelligence community; and
(5) shall establish oversight mechanisms to
determine whether the public-private ex-
change authorized by this section improves
the efficiency and effectiveness of the intel-
ligence community.
(j) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DETAIL.—The term ‘‘detail’’ means, as
appropriate in the context in which such
term is used—
(A) the assignment or loan of an employee
of an element of the intelligence community
to a private-sector organization without a
change of position from the intelligence
community element that employs the indi-
vidual; or
(B) the assignment or loan of an employee
of a private-sector organization to an ele-
ment of the intelligence community without
a change of position from the private-sector
organization that employs the individual.
(2) PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATION.—The
term ‘‘private-sector organization’’ means—
(A) a for-profit organization; or
(B) a not-for-profit organization.
(3) SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN.—The term
‘‘small business concern’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 3703(e)(2) of title
5, United States Code.
SEC. 305. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF PROTEC-
TIONS FOR IDENTITIES OF COVERT
AGENTS.
Section 605(4) of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3126(4)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) by striking clause (ii);
(B) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘, and’’ and in-
serting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘agency—’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘whose identity’’ and inserting
‘‘agency whose identity’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ‘‘re-
sides and acts outside the United States’’
and inserting ‘‘acts’’.
SEC. 306. INCLUSION OF SECURITY RISKS IN PRO-
GRAM MANAGEMENT PLANS RE-
QUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF
MAJOR SYSTEMS IN NATIONAL IN-
TELLIGENCE PROGRAM.
Section 102A(q)(1)(A) of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(q)(1)(A)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘security risks,’’ after
‘‘schedule,’’.
SEC. 307. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to—
(1) help the intelligence community recruit
and retain a dynamic, multi-talented, and di-
verse workforce capable of meeting the secu-
rity goals of the United States; and
(2) establish best practices and processes
for other elements of the Federal Govern-
ment seeking to pursue similar policies.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF PAID PARENTAL
LEAVE FOR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY EM-
PLOYEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3071 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 304 the
following:
‘‘SEC. 305. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.
‘‘(a) PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, a civil-
ian employee of an element of the intel-
ligence community shall have available a
total of 12 administrative workweeks of paid
parental leave in the event of the birth of a
son or daughter to the employee, or place-
ment of a son or daughter with the employee
for adoption or foster care, and in order to
care for such son or daughter, to be used dur-
ing the 12-month period beginning on the
date of the birth or placement.
‘‘(b) TREATMENT OF PARENTAL LEAVE RE-
QUEST.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law—
‘‘(1) an element of the intelligence commu-
nity shall accommodate an employee’s leave
schedule request under subsection (a), in-
cluding a request to use such leave intermit-
tently or on a reduced leave schedule, to the
extent that the requested leave schedule
does not unduly disrupt agency operations;
and
‘‘(2) to the extent that an employee’s re-
quested leave schedule as described in para-
graph (1) is based on medical necessity re-
lated to a serious health condition connected
to the birth of a son or daughter, the em-
ploying element shall handle the scheduling
consistent with the treatment of employees
who are using leave under subparagraph (C)
or (D) of section 6382(a)(1) of title 5, United
States Code.
‘‘(c) RULES RELATING TO PAID LEAVE.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law—
‘‘(1) an employee may not be required to
first use all or any portion of any unpaid
leave available to the employee before being
allowed to use the paid parental leave de-
scribed in subsection (a); and
‘‘(2) paid parental leave under subsection
(a)—
‘‘(A) shall be payable from any appropria-
tion or fund available for salaries or ex-
penses for positions within the employing
element;
‘‘(B) may not be considered to be annual or
vacation leave for purposes of section 5551 or
5552 of title 5, United States Code, or for any
other purpose;
‘‘(C) if not used by the employee before the
end of the 12-month period described in sub-
section (a) to which the leave relates, may
not be available for any subsequent use and
may not be converted into a cash payment;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3723
June 18, 2019
‘‘(D) may be granted only to the extent
that the employee does not receive a total of
more than 12 weeks of paid parental leave in
any 12-month period beginning on the date of
a birth or placement;
‘‘(E) may not be granted—
‘‘(i) in excess of a lifetime aggregate total
of 30 administrative workweeks based on
placements of a foster child for any indi-
vidual employee; or
‘‘(ii) in connection with temporary foster
care placements expected to last less than 1
year;
‘‘(F) may not be granted for a child being
placed for foster care or adoption if such
leave was previously granted to the same
employee when the same child was placed
with the employee for foster care in the past;
‘‘(G) shall be used in increments of hours
(or fractions thereof), with 12 administrative
workweeks equal to 480 hours for employees
with a regular full-time work schedule and
converted to a proportional number of hours
for employees with part-time, seasonal, or
uncommon tours of duty; and
‘‘(H) may not be used during off-season
(nonpay status) periods for employees with
seasonal work schedules.
‘‘(d) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this section, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall provide the congressional intel-
ligence committees with an implementation
plan that includes—
‘‘(1) processes and procedures for imple-
menting the paid parental leave policies
under subsections (a) through (c);
‘‘(2) an explanation of how the implemen-
tation of subsections (a) through (c) will be
reconciled with policies of other elements of
the Federal Government, including the im-
pact on elements funded by the National In-
telligence Program that are housed within
agencies outside the intelligence commu-
nity;
‘‘(3) the projected impact of the implemen-
tation of subsections (a) through (c) on the
workforce of the intelligence community, in-
cluding take rates, retention, recruiting, and
morale, broken down by each element of the
intelligence community; and
‘‘(4) all costs or operational expenses asso-
ciated with the implementation of sub-
sections (a) through (c).
‘‘(e) DIRECTIVE.—Not later than 90 days
after the Director of National Intelligence
submits the implementation plan under sub-
section (d), the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall issue a written directive to im-
plement this section, which directive shall
take effect on the date of issuance.
‘‘(f) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees an an-
nual report that—
‘‘(1) details the number of employees of
each element of the intelligence community
who applied for and took paid parental leave
under subsection (a) during the year covered
by the report; and
‘‘(2) includes updates on major implemen-
tation challenges or costs associated with
paid parental leave.
‘‘(g) DEFINITION OF SON OR DAUGHTER.—For
purposes of this section, the term ‘son or
daughter’ has the meaning given the term in
section 6381 of title 5, United States Code.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3002) is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 304 the following:
‘‘Sec. 305. Paid parental leave.’’.
(c) APPLICABILITY.—Section 305 of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947, as added by sub-
section (b), shall apply with respect to leave
taken in connection with the birth or place-
ment of a son or daughter that occurs on or
after the date on which the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence issues the written direc-
tive under subsection (e) of such section 305.
Subtitle B—Office of the Director of National
Intelligence
SEC. 311. EXCLUSIVITY, CONSISTENCY, AND
TRANSPARENCY IN SECURITY
CLEARANCE PROCEDURES AND
RIGHT TO APPEAL.
(a) EXCLUSIVITY OF PROCEDURES.—Section
801 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3161) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(c) EXCLUSIVITY.—Except as provided in
subsection (b) and subject to sections 801A
and 801B, the procedures established pursu-
ant to subsection (a) shall be the exclusive
procedures by which decisions about eligi-
bility for access to classified information are
governed.’’.
(b) TRANSPARENCY.—Such section is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(d) PUBLICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, the President shall—
‘‘(A) publish in the Federal Register the
procedures established pursuant to sub-
section (a); or
‘‘(B) submit to Congress a certification
that the procedures currently in effect that
govern access to classified information as de-
scribed in subsection (a)—
‘‘(i) are published in the Federal Register;
and
‘‘(ii) comply with the requirements of sub-
section (a).
‘‘(2) UPDATES.—Whenever the President
makes a revision to a procedure established
pursuant to subsection (a), the President
shall publish such revision in the Federal
Register not later than 30 days before the
date on which the revision becomes effec-
tive.’’.
(c) CONSISTENCY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title VIII of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 801 the
following:
‘‘SEC. 801A. DECISIONS RELATING TO ACCESS TO
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘agency’ has the
meaning given the term ‘Executive agency’
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(2) CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The term
‘classified information’ includes sensitive
compartmented information, restricted data,
restricted handling information, and other
compartmented information.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.—The term ‘eligibility for ac-
cess to classified information’ has the mean-
ing given such term in the procedures estab-
lished pursuant to section 801(a).
‘‘(b) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
that makes a determination regarding eligi-
bility for access to classified information
shall ensure that in making the determina-
tion, the head of the agency or any person
acting on behalf of the agency—
‘‘(1) does not violate any right or protec-
tion enshrined in the Constitution of the
United States, including rights articulated
in the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amend-
ments;
‘‘(2) does not discriminate for or against an
individual on the basis of race, color, reli-
gion, sex, national origin, age, or handicap;
‘‘(3) is not carrying out—
‘‘(A) retaliation for political activities or
beliefs; or
‘‘(B) a coercion or reprisal described in sec-
tion 2302(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code;
and
‘‘(4) does not violate section 3001(j)(1) of
the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Pre-
vention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3002) is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 801 the following:
‘‘Sec. 801A. Decisions relating to access to
classified information.’’.
(d) RIGHT TO APPEAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Such title, as amended by
subsection (c), is further amended by insert-
ing after section 801A the following:
‘‘SEC. 801B. RIGHT TO APPEAL.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘agency’ has the
meaning given the term ‘Executive agency’
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(2) COVERED PERSON.—The term ‘covered
person’ means a person, other than the
President and Vice President, currently or
formerly employed in, detailed to, assigned
to, or issued an authorized conditional offer
of employment for a position that requires
access to classified information by an agen-
cy, including the following:
‘‘(A) A member of the Armed Forces.
‘‘(B) A civilian.
‘‘(C) An expert or consultant with a con-
tractual or personnel obligation to an agen-
cy.
‘‘(D) Any other category of person who acts
for or on behalf of an agency as determined
by the head of the agency.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.—The term ‘eligibility for ac-
cess to classified information’ has the mean-
ing given such term in the procedures estab-
lished pursuant to section 801(a).
‘‘(4) NEED FOR ACCESS.—The term ‘need for
access’ has such meaning as the President
may define in the procedures established
pursuant to section 801(a).
‘‘(5) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘Security Executive Agent’ means the officer
serving as the Security Executive Agent pur-
suant to section 803.
‘‘(b) AGENCY REVIEW.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of the
Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pol-
lard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020, each head of an agency shall,
consistent with the interest of national secu-
rity, establish and publish in the Federal
Register a process by which a covered person
to whom eligibility for access to classified
information was denied or revoked by the
agency can appeal that denial or revocation
within the agency.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—The process required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
‘‘(A) In the case of a covered person to
whom eligibility for access to classified in-
formation is denied or revoked by an agency,
the following:
‘‘(i) The head of the agency shall provide
the covered person with a written—
‘‘(I) detailed explanation of the basis for
the denial or revocation as the head of the
agency determines is consistent with the in-
terests of national security and as permitted
by other applicable provisions of law; and
‘‘(II) notice of the right of the covered per-
son to a hearing and appeal under this sub-
section.
‘‘(ii) Not later than 30 days after receiving
a request from the covered person for copies
of the documents that formed the basis of
the agency’s decision to revoke or deny, in-
cluding the investigative file, the head of the
agency shall provide to the covered person
copies of such documents as—
‘‘(I) the head of the agency determines is
consistent with the interests of national se-
curity; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3724 June 18, 2019
‘‘(II) permitted by other applicable provi-
sions of law, including—
‘‘(aa) section 552 of title 5, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘Freedom of
Information Act’);
‘‘(bb) section 552a of such title (commonly
known as the ‘Privacy Act of 1974’); and
‘‘(cc) such other provisions of law relating
to the protection of confidential sources and
privacy of individuals.
‘‘(iii)(I) The covered person shall have the
opportunity to retain counsel or other rep-
resentation at the covered person’s expense.
‘‘(II) Upon the request of the covered per-
son, and a showing that the ability to review
classified information is essential to the res-
olution of an appeal under this subsection,
counsel or other representation retained
under this clause shall be considered for ac-
cess to classified information for the limited
purposes of such appeal.
‘‘(iv)(I) The head of the agency shall pro-
vide the covered person an opportunity, at a
point in the process determined by the agen-
cy head—
‘‘(aa) to appear personally before an adju-
dicative or other authority, other than the
investigating entity, and to present to such
authority relevant documents, materials,
and information, including evidence that
past problems relating to the denial or rev-
ocation have been overcome or sufficiently
mitigated; and
‘‘(bb) to call and cross-examine witnesses
before such authority, unless the head of the
agency determines that calling and cross-ex-
amining witnesses is not consistent with the
interests of national security.
‘‘(II) The head of the agency shall make, as
part of the security record of the covered
person, a written summary, transcript, or re-
cording of any appearance under item (aa) of
subclause (I) or calling or cross-examining of
witnesses under item (bb) of such subclause.
‘‘(v) On or before the date that is 30 days
after the date on which the covered person
receives copies of documents under clause
(ii), the covered person may request a hear-
ing of the decision to deny or revoke by fil-
ing a written appeal with the head of the
agency.
‘‘(B) A requirement that each review of a
decision under this subsection is completed
on average not later than 180 days after the
date on which a hearing is requested under
subparagraph (A)(v).
‘‘(3) AGENCY REVIEW PANELS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
shall establish a panel to hear and review ap-
peals under this subsection.
‘‘(B) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(i) COMPOSITION.—Each panel established
by the head of an agency under subparagraph
(A) shall be composed of at least three em-
ployees of the agency selected by the head,
two of whom shall not be members of the se-
curity field.
‘‘(ii) TERMS.—A term of service on a panel
established by the head of an agency under
subparagraph (A) shall not exceed 2 years.
‘‘(C) DECISIONS.—
‘‘(i) WRITTEN.—Each decision of a panel es-
tablished under subparagraph (A) shall be in
writing and contain a justification of the de-
cision.
‘‘(ii) CONSISTENCY.—Each head of an agency
that establishes a panel under subparagraph
(A) shall ensure that each decision of the
panel is consistent with the interests of na-
tional security and applicable provisions of
law.
‘‘(iii) OVERTURN.—The head of an agency
may overturn a decision of the panel if, not
later than 30 days after the date on which
the panel issues the decision, the agency
head personally exercises the authority
granted by this clause to overturn such deci-
sion.
‘‘(iv) FINALITY.—Each decision of a panel
established under subparagraph (A) or over-
turned pursuant to clause (iii) of this sub-
paragraph shall be final but subject to appeal
and review under subsection (c).
‘‘(D) ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—
The head of an agency that establishes a
panel under subparagraph (A) shall afford ac-
cess to classified information to the mem-
bers of the panel as the head determines—
‘‘(i) necessary for the panel to hear and re-
view an appeal under this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) consistent with the interests of na-
tional security.
‘‘(4) REPRESENTATION BY COUNSEL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
shall ensure that, under this subsection, a
covered person appealing a decision of the
head’s agency under this subsection has an
opportunity to retain counsel or other rep-
resentation at the covered person’s expense.
‘‘(B) ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Upon the request of a
covered person appealing a decision of an
agency under this subsection and a showing
that the ability to review classified informa-
tion is essential to the resolution of the ap-
peal under this subsection, the head of the
agency shall sponsor an application by the
counsel or other representation retained
under this paragraph for access to classified
information for the limited purposes of such
appeal.
‘‘(ii) EXTENT OF ACCESS.—Counsel or an-
other representative who is cleared for ac-
cess under this subparagraph may be af-
forded access to relevant classified materials
to the extent consistent with the interests of
national security.
‘‘(5) CORRECTIVE ACTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If, in the course of pro-
ceedings under this subsection, the head of
an agency or a panel established by the head
under paragraph (3) decides that a covered
person’s eligibility for access to classified in-
formation was improperly denied or revoked
by the agency, the agency shall take correc-
tive action to return the covered person, as
nearly as practicable and reasonable, to the
position such covered person would have held
had the improper denial or revocation not
occurred.
‘‘(B) COMPENSATION.—Corrective action
under subparagraph (A) may include com-
pensation, in an amount not to exceed
$300,000, for any loss of wages or benefits suf-
fered, or expenses otherwise incurred, by rea-
son of such improper denial or revocation.
‘‘(6) PUBLICATION OF DECISIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
shall publish each final decision on an appeal
under this subsection.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In order to ensure
transparency, oversight by Congress, and
meaningful information for those who need
to understand how the clearance process
works, each publication under subparagraph
(A) shall be—
‘‘(i) made in a manner that is consistent
with section 552 of title 5, United States
Code, as amended by the Electronic Freedom
of Information Act Amendments of 1996
(Public Law 104–231);
‘‘(ii) published to explain the facts of the
case, redacting personally identifiable infor-
mation and sensitive program information;
and
‘‘(iii) made available on a website that is
searchable by members of the public.
‘‘(c) HIGHER LEVEL REVIEW.—
‘‘(1) PANEL.—
‘‘(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pol-
lard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020, the Security Executive Agent
shall establish a panel to review decisions
made on appeals pursuant to the processes
established under subsection (b).
‘‘(B) SCOPE OF REVIEW AND JURISDICTION.—
After initial review to verify grounds for ap-
peal, the panel established under subpara-
graph (A) shall review such decisions only—
‘‘(i) as they relate to violations of section
801A(b); or
‘‘(ii) to the extent to which an agency
properly conducted a review of an appeal
under subsection (b).
‘‘(C) COMPOSITION.—The panel established
pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be com-
posed of three individuals selected by the Se-
curity Executive Agent for purposes of the
panel, of whom at least one shall be an attor-
ney.
‘‘(2) APPEALS AND TIMELINESS.—
‘‘(A) APPEALS.—
‘‘(i) INITIATION.—On or before the date that
is 30 days after the date on which a covered
person receives a written decision on an ap-
peal under subsection (b), the covered person
may initiate oversight of that decision by
filing a written appeal with the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent.
‘‘(ii) FILING.—A written appeal filed under
clause (i) relating to a decision of an agency
shall be filed in such form, in such manner,
and containing such information as the Se-
curity Executive Agent may require, includ-
ing—
‘‘(I) a description of—
‘‘(aa) any alleged violations of section
801A(b) relating to the denial or revocation
of the covered person’s eligibility for access
to classified information; and
‘‘(bb) any allegations of how the decision
may have been the result of the agency fail-
ing to properly conduct a review under sub-
section (b); and
‘‘(II) supporting materials and information
for the allegations described under subclause
(I).
‘‘(B) TIMELINESS.—The Security Executive
Agent shall ensure that, on average, review
of each appeal filed under this subsection is
completed not later than 180 days after the
date on which the appeal is filed.
‘‘(3) DECISIONS AND REMANDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If, in the course of re-
viewing under this subsection a decision of
an agency under subsection (b), the panel es-
tablished under paragraph (1) decides that
there is sufficient evidence of a violation of
section 801A(b) to merit a new hearing or de-
cides that the decision of the agency was the
result of an improperly conducted review
under subsection (b), the panel shall vacate
the decision made under subsection (b) and
remand to the agency by which the covered
person shall be eligible for a new appeal
under subsection (b).
‘‘(B) WRITTEN DECISIONS.—Each decision of
the panel established under paragraph (1)
shall be in writing and contain a justifica-
tion of the decision.
‘‘(C) CONSISTENCY.—The panel under para-
graph (1) shall ensure that each decision of
the panel is consistent with the interests of
national security and applicable provisions
of law.
‘‘(D) FINALITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), each decision of the panel estab-
lished under paragraph (1) shall be final.
‘‘(ii) OVERTURN.—The Security Executive
Agent may overturn a decision of the panel
if, not later than 30 days after the date on
which the panel issues the decision, the Se-
curity Executive Agent personally exercises
the authority granted by this clause to over-
turn such decision.
‘‘(E) NATURE OF REMANDS.—In remanding a
decision under subparagraph (A), the panel
established under paragraph (1) may not di-
rect the outcome of any further appeal under
subsection (b).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3725
June 18, 2019
‘‘(F) NOTICE OF DECISIONS.—For each deci-
sion of the panel established under para-
graph (1) regarding a covered person, the Se-
curity Executive Agent shall provide the
covered person with a written notice of the
decision that includes a detailed description
of the reasons for the decision, consistent
with the interests of national security and
applicable provisions of law.
‘‘(4) REPRESENTATION BY COUNSEL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Security Executive
Agent shall ensure that, under this sub-
section, a covered person appealing a deci-
sion under subsection (b) has an opportunity
to retain counsel or other representation at
the covered person’s expense.
‘‘(B) ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Upon the request of the
covered person and a showing that the abil-
ity to review classified information is essen-
tial to the resolution of an appeal under this
subsection, the Security Executive Agent
shall sponsor an application by the counsel
or other representation retained under this
paragraph for access to classified informa-
tion for the limited purposes of such appeal.
‘‘(ii) EXTENT OF ACCESS.—Counsel or an-
other representative who is cleared for ac-
cess under this subparagraph may be af-
forded access to relevant classified materials
to the extent consistent with the interests of
national security.
‘‘(5) ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS AND EMPLOY-
EES.—
‘‘(A) AFFORDING ACCESS TO MEMBERS OF
PANEL.—The Security Executive Agent shall
afford access to classified information to the
members of the panel established under para-
graph (1)(A) as the Security Executive Agent
determines—
‘‘(i) necessary for the panel to review a de-
cision described in such paragraph; and
‘‘(ii) consistent with the interests of na-
tional security.
‘‘(B) AGENCY COMPLIANCE WITH REQUESTS OF
PANEL.—Each head of an agency shall com-
ply with each request by the panel for a doc-
ument and each request by the panel for ac-
cess to employees of the agency necessary
for the review of an appeal under this sub-
section, to the degree that doing so is, as de-
termined by the head of the agency and per-
mitted by applicable provisions of law, con-
sistent with the interests of national secu-
rity.
‘‘(6) PUBLICATION OF DECISIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For each final decision
on an appeal under this subsection, the head
of the agency with respect to which the ap-
peal pertains and the Security Executive
Agent shall each publish the decision, con-
sistent with the interests of national secu-
rity.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In order to ensure
transparency, oversight by Congress, and
meaningful information for those who need
to understand how the clearance process
works, each publication under subparagraph
(A) shall be—
‘‘(i) made in a manner that is consistent
with section 552 of title 5, United States
Code, as amended by the Electronic Freedom
of Information Act Amendments of 1996
(Public Law 104–231);
‘‘(ii) published to explain the facts of the
case, redacting personally identifiable infor-
mation and sensitive program information;
and
‘‘(iii) made available on a website that is
searchable by members of the public.
‘‘(d) PERIOD OF TIME FOR THE RIGHT TO AP-
PEAL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), any covered person who has
been the subject of a decision made by the
head of an agency to deny or revoke eligi-
bility for access to classified information
shall retain all rights to appeal under this
section until the conclusion of the appeal
process under this section.
‘‘(2) WAIVER OF RIGHTS.—
‘‘(A) PERSONS.—Any covered person may
voluntarily waive the covered person’s right
to appeal under this section and such waiver
shall be conclusive.
‘‘(B) AGENCIES.—The head of an agency
may not require a covered person to waive
the covered person’s right to appeal under
this section for any reason.
‘‘(e) WAIVER OF AVAILABILITY OF PROCE-
DURES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the head of an agency
determines that a procedure established
under this section cannot be made available
to a covered person in an exceptional case
without damaging a national security inter-
est of the United States by revealing classi-
fied information, such procedure shall not be
made available to such covered person.
‘‘(2) FINALITY.—A determination under
paragraph (1) shall be final and conclusive
and may not be reviewed by any other offi-
cial or by any court.
‘‘(3) REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) CASE-BY-CASE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In each case in which the
head of an agency determines under para-
graph (1) that a procedure established under
this section cannot be made available to a
covered person, the head shall, not later
than 30 days after the date on which the head
makes such determination, submit to the Se-
curity Executive Agent and to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report stat-
ing the reasons for the determination.
‘‘(ii) FORM.—A report submitted under
clause (i) may be submitted in classified
form as necessary.
‘‘(B) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each fiscal year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report on the deter-
minations made under paragraph (1) during
the previous fiscal year.
‘‘(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under clause (i) shall include, for the period
covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(I) The number of cases and reasons for
determinations made under paragraph (1),
disaggregated by agency.
‘‘(II) Such other matters as the Security
Executive Agent considers appropriate.
‘‘(f) DENIALS AND REVOCATIONS UNDER
OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.—
‘‘(1) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to limit or af-
fect the responsibility and power of the head
of an agency to deny or revoke eligibility for
access to classified information in the inter-
est of national security.
‘‘(2) DENIALS AND REVOCATION.—The power
and responsibility to deny or revoke eligi-
bility for access to classified information
pursuant to any other provision of law or Ex-
ecutive order may be exercised only when
the head of an agency determines that an ap-
plicable process established under this sec-
tion cannot be invoked in a manner that is
consistent with national security.
‘‘(3) FINALITY.—A determination under
paragraph (2) shall be final and conclusive
and may not be reviewed by any other offi-
cial or by any court.
‘‘(4) REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) CASE-BY-CASE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In each case in which the
head of an agency determines under para-
graph (2) that determination relating to a
denial or revocation of eligibility for access
to classified information could not be made
pursuant to a process established under this
section, the head shall, not later than 30
days after the date on which the head makes
such determination under paragraph (2), sub-
mit to the Security Executive Agent and to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report stating the reasons for the determina-
tion.
‘‘(ii) FORM.—A report submitted under
clause (i) may be submitted in classified
form as necessary.
‘‘(B) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each fiscal year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report on the deter-
minations made under paragraph (2) during
the previous fiscal year.
‘‘(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under clause (i) shall include, for the period
covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(I) The number of cases and reasons for
determinations made under paragraph (2),
disaggregated by agency.
‘‘(II) Such other matters as the Security
Executive Agent considers appropriate.
‘‘(g) RELATIONSHIP TO SUITABILITY.—No
person may use a determination of suit-
ability under part 731 of title 5, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, or successor regulation, for
the purpose of denying a covered person the
review proceedings of this section where
there has been a denial or revocation of eli-
gibility for access to classified information.
‘‘(h) PRESERVATION OF ROLES AND RESPON-
SIBILITIES UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 10865 AND
OF THE DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND AP-
PEALS.—Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to diminish or otherwise affect the
procedures in effect on the day before the
date of the enactment of this Act for denial
and revocation procedures provided to indi-
viduals by Executive Order 10865 (50 U.S.C.
3161 note; relating to safeguarding classified
information within industry), or successor
order, including those administered through
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals of
the Department of Defense under Depart-
ment of Defense Directive 5220.6, or successor
directive.
‘‘(i) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION RELATING TO
CERTAIN OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.—This
section and the processes and procedures es-
tablished under this section shall not be con-
strued to apply to paragraphs (6) and (7) of
section 3001(j) of the Intelligence Reform and
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C.
3341(j)).’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3002), as amended by subsection (c), is fur-
ther amended by inserting after the item re-
lating to section 801A the following:
‘‘Sec. 801B. Right to appeal.’’.
SEC. 312. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY.
(a) LIMITATION.—Neither the Secretary of
Defense nor the Director of National Intel-
ligence may commence any activity to
transfer the National Intelligence University
out of the Defense Intelligence Agency until
the Secretary and the Director jointly cer-
tify each of the following:
(1) The National Intelligence University
has positively adjudicated its warning from
the Middle States Commission on Higher
Education and had its regional accreditation
fully restored.
(2) The National Intelligence University
will serve as the exclusive means by which
advanced intelligence education is provided
to personnel of the Department of Defense.
(3) Military personnel will receive joint
professional military education from a Na-
tional Intelligence University location at a
non-Department of Defense agency.
(4) The Department of Education will allow
the Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence to grant advanced educational de-
grees.
(5) A governance model jointly led by the
Director and the Secretary of Defense is in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3726 June 18, 2019
place for the National Intelligence Univer-
sity.
(b) COST ESTIMATES.—
(1) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES
OF CONGRESS.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives.
(2) IN GENERAL.—Before commencing any
activity to transfer the National Intelligence
University out of the Defense Intelligence
Agency, the Secretary of Defense and the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall jointly
submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress an estimate of the direct and indi-
rect costs of operating the National Intel-
ligence University and the costs of transfer-
ring the National Intelligence University to
another agency.
(3) CONTENTS.—The estimate submitted
under paragraph (2) shall include all indirect
costs, including with respect to human re-
sources, security, facilities, and information
technology.
SEC. 313. IMPROVING VISIBILITY INTO THE SECU-
RITY CLEARANCE PROCESS.
(a) DEFINITION OF SECURITY EXECUTIVE
AGENT.—In this section, the term ‘‘Security
Executive Agent’’ means the officer serving
as the Security Executive Agent pursuant to
section 803 of the National Security Act of
1947, as added by section 605 of division B.
(b) POLICY REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall
issue a policy that requires the head of each
Federal agency to create, not later than De-
cember 31, 2023, an electronic portal that can
be used by human resources personnel and
applicants for security clearances to view in-
formation about the status of an application
for a security clearance and the average time
required for each phase of the security clear-
ance process.
SEC. 314. MAKING CERTAIN POLICIES AND EXE-
CUTION PLANS RELATING TO PER-
SONNEL CLEARANCES AVAILABLE
TO INDUSTRY PARTNERS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE INDUSTRY PARTNER.—The
term ‘‘appropriate industry partner’’ means
a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined
in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to National Indus-
trial Security Program), as in effect on the
day before the date of the enactment of this
Act) that is participating in the National In-
dustrial Security Program established by
such Executive Order.
(2) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘‘Security Executive Agent’’ means the offi-
cer serving as the Security Executive Agent
pursuant to section 803 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947, as added by section 605 of di-
vision B.
(b) SHARING OF POLICIES AND PLANS RE-
QUIRED.—Each head of a Federal agency shall
share policies and plans relating to security
clearances with appropriate industry part-
ners directly affected by such policies and
plans in a manner consistent with the pro-
tection of national security as well as the
goals and objectives of the National Indus-
trial Security Program administered pursu-
ant to Executive Order 12829 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to the National Industrial Se-
curity Program).
(c) DEVELOPMENT OF POLICIES AND PROCE-
DURES REQUIRED.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Direc-
tor of the National Industrial Security Pro-
gram shall jointly develop policies and pro-
cedures by which appropriate industry part-
ners with proper security clearances and a
need to know can have appropriate access to
the policies and plans shared pursuant to
subsection (b) that directly affect those in-
dustry partners.
Subtitle C—Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community
SEC. 321. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) WHISTLEBLOWER.—The term ‘‘whistle-
blower’’ means a person who makes a whis-
tleblower disclosure.
(2) WHISTLEBLOWER DISCLOSURE.—The term
‘‘whistleblower disclosure’’ means a disclo-
sure that is protected under section 1104 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3234) or section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence
Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
(50 U.S.C. 3341(j)).
SEC. 322. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL RE-
VIEW PANEL.
(a) AUTHORITY TO CONVENE EXTERNAL RE-
VIEW PANELS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title XI of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 1105. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL RE-
VIEW PANEL.
‘‘(a) REQUEST FOR REVIEW.—An individual
with a claim described in subsection (b) may
submit to the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community a request for a review of
such claim by an external review panel con-
vened under subsection (c).
‘‘(b) CLAIMS AND INDIVIDUALS DESCRIBED.—
A claim described in this subsection is any—
‘‘(1) claim by an individual—
‘‘(A) that the individual has been subjected
to a personnel action that is prohibited
under section 1104; and
‘‘(B) who has exhausted the applicable re-
view process for the claim pursuant to en-
forcement of such section; or
‘‘(2) claim by an individual—
‘‘(A) that he or she has been subjected to a
reprisal prohibited by paragraph (1) of sec-
tion 3001(j) of the Intelligence Reform and
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C.
3341(j)); and
‘‘(B) who received a decision on an appeal
regarding that claim under paragraph (4) of
such section.
‘‘(c) EXTERNAL REVIEW PANEL CONVENED.—
‘‘(1) DISCRETION TO CONVENE.—Upon receipt
of a request under subsection (a) regarding a
claim, the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community may, at the discretion of
the Inspector General, convene an external
review panel under this subsection to review
the claim.
‘‘(2) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(A) COMPOSITION.—An external review
panel convened under this subsection shall
be composed of three members as follows:
‘‘(i) The Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community.
‘‘(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), two members selected by the Inspector
General as the Inspector General considers
appropriate on a case-by-case basis from
among inspectors general of the following:
‘‘(I) The Department of Defense.
‘‘(II) The Department of Energy.
‘‘(III) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
‘‘(IV) The Department of Justice.
‘‘(V) The Department of State.
‘‘(VI) The Department of the Treasury.
‘‘(VII) The Central Intelligence Agency.
‘‘(VIII) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
‘‘(IX) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
‘‘(X) The National Reconnaissance Office.
‘‘(XI) The National Security Agency.
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—An inspector general of
an agency may not be selected to sit on the
panel under subparagraph (A)(ii) to review
any matter relating to a decision made by
such agency.
‘‘(C) CHAIRPERSON.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the chairperson of any panel con-
vened under this subsection shall be the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
‘‘(ii) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—If the Inspec-
tor General of the Intelligence Community
finds cause to recuse himself or herself from
a panel convened under this subsection, the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity shall—
‘‘(I) select a chairperson from inspectors
general of the elements listed under subpara-
graph (A)(ii) whom the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community considers appro-
priate; and
‘‘(II) notify the congressional intelligence
committees of such selection.
‘‘(3) PERIOD OF REVIEW.—Each external re-
view panel convened under this subsection to
review a claim shall complete review of the
claim no later than 270 days after the date
on which the Inspector General convenes the
external review panel.
‘‘(d) REMEDIES.—
‘‘(1) PANEL RECOMMENDATIONS.—If an exter-
nal review panel convened under subsection
(c) determines, pursuant to a review of a
claim submitted by an individual under sub-
section (a), that the individual was the sub-
ject of a personnel action prohibited under
section 1104 or was subjected to a reprisal
prohibited by section 3001(j)(1) of the Intel-
ligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention
Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)), the panel
may recommend that the agency head take
corrective action—
‘‘(A) in the case of an employee or former
employee—
‘‘(i) to return the employee or former em-
ployee, as nearly as practicable and reason-
able, to the position such employee or
former employee would have held had the re-
prisal not occurred; or
‘‘(ii) reconsider the employee’s or former
employee’s eligibility for access to classified
information consistent with national secu-
rity; or
‘‘(B) in any other case, such other action as
the external review panel considers appro-
priate.
‘‘(2) AGENCY ACTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date on which the head of an agen-
cy receives a recommendation from an exter-
nal review panel under paragraph (1), the
head shall—
‘‘(i) give full consideration to such rec-
ommendation; and
‘‘(ii) inform the panel and the Director of
National Intelligence of what action the
head has taken with respect to the rec-
ommendation.
‘‘(B) FAILURE TO INFORM.—The Director
shall notify the President of any failures to
comply with subparagraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(e) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each year, the Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees and
the Director of National Intelligence a re-
port on the activities under this section dur-
ing the previous year.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Subject to such limita-
tions as the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community considers necessary to
protect the privacy of an individual who has
made a claim described in subsection (b),
each report submitted under paragraph (1)
shall include, for the period covered by the
report, the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3727
June 18, 2019
‘‘(A) The determinations and recommenda-
tions made by the external review panels
convened under this section.
‘‘(B) The responses of the heads of agencies
that received recommendations from the ex-
ternal review panels.’’.
(2) TABLE OF CONTENTS AMENDMENT.—The
table of contents in the first section of the
National Security Act of 1947 is amended by
adding at the end the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 1105. Inspector General external re-
view panel.’’.
(b) RECOMMENDATION ON ADDRESSING WHIS-
TLEBLOWER APPEALS RELATING TO REPRISAL
COMPLAINTS AGAINST INSPECTORS GENERAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a rec-
ommendation on how to ensure that—
(A) a whistleblower in the intelligence
community who has a complaint against an
inspector general in the intelligence commu-
nity and who alleges a reprisal, has available
the agency adjudication and appellate review
provided under section 1104 of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3234); and
(B) any such whistleblower who has ex-
hausted the applicable review process may
request an external review panel and receive
one, at the discretion of the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Intelligence Community.
(2) CONTENTS.—The recommendation sub-
mitted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall in-
clude the following:
(A) A discussion of whether and to what de-
gree section 1105 of the National Security
Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a)(1),
provides appropriate authorities and mecha-
nisms to provide an external review panel as
described in paragraph (1) of this subsection
and for the purposes described in such para-
graph.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Inspector
General may have with respect to providing
an external review panel as described in
paragraph (1) and for the purposes described
in such paragraph.
SEC. 323. HARMONIZATION OF WHISTLEBLOWER
PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community, in coordination with the Intel-
ligence Community Inspectors General
Forum, shall develop recommendations, ap-
plicable to all inspectors general of elements
of the intelligence community, regarding the
harmonization of instructions, policies, and
directives relating to processes, procedures,
and timelines for claims and appeals relating
to allegations of personnel actions prohib-
ited under section 1104 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 or reprisals prohibited by
section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50
U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).
(b) TRANSPARENCY AND PROTECTION.—In de-
veloping recommendations under subsection
(a), the Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community shall make efforts to maximize
transparency and protect whistleblowers.
SEC. 324. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY OVER-
SIGHT OF AGENCY WHISTLEBLOWER
ACTIONS.
(a) FEASIBILITY STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity, in consultation with the Intelligence
Community Inspectors General Forum, shall
complete a feasibility study on establishing
a hotline whereby all complaints of whistle-
blowers relating to the intelligence commu-
nity are automatically referred to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The feasibility study con-
ducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall in-
clude the following:
(A) The anticipated number of annual
whistleblower complaints received by all ele-
ments of the intelligence community.
(B) The additional resources required to
implement the hotline, including personnel
and technology.
(C) The resulting budgetary effects.
(D) Findings from the system established
pursuant to subsection (b).
(b) OVERSIGHT SYSTEM REQUIRED.—Not
later than 180 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community shall establish a
system whereby the Inspector General is pro-
vided, in near real time, the following:
(1) All information relating to complaints
by whistleblowers relating to the programs
and activities under the jurisdiction of the
Director of National Intelligence.
(2) Any inspector general actions relating
to such complaints.
(c) PRIVACY PROTECTIONS.—
(1) POLICIES AND PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—
Before establishing the system required by
subsection (b), the Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community shall establish poli-
cies and procedures to protect the privacy of
whistleblowers and protect against further
dissemination of whistleblower information
without consent of the whistleblower.
(2) CONTROL OF DISTRIBUTION.—The system
established under subsection (b) shall pro-
vide whistleblowers the option of prohibiting
distribution of their complaints to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
SEC. 325. REPORT ON CLEARED WHISTLEBLOWER
ATTORNEYS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a report
on access to cleared attorneys by whistle-
blowers in the intelligence community.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report submitted pur-
suant to subsection (a) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(1) The number of whistleblowers in the in-
telligence community who sought to retain a
cleared attorney and at what stage they
sought such an attorney.
(2) For the 3-year period preceding the re-
port, the following:
(A) The number of limited security agree-
ments (LSAs).
(B) The scope and clearance levels of such
limited security agreements.
(C) The number of whistleblowers rep-
resented by cleared counsel.
(3) Recommendations for legislative or ad-
ministrative action to ensure that whistle-
blowers in the intelligence community have
access to cleared attorneys, including im-
provements to the limited security agree-
ment process and such other options as the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity considers appropriate.
(c) SURVEY.—The Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community shall ensure that
the report submitted under subsection (a) is
based on—
(1) data from a survey of whistleblowers
whose claims are reported to the Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community by
means of the oversight system established
pursuant to section 324;
(2) information obtained from the inspec-
tors general of the intelligence community;
or
(3) information from such other sources as
may be identified by the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community.
TITLE IV—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
SEC. 401. STUDY ON FOREIGN EMPLOYMENT OF
FORMER PERSONNEL OF INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) STUDY.—The Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Secretary
of Defense and the Secretary of State, shall
conduct a study of matters relating to the
foreign employment of former personnel of
the intelligence community.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study conducted pur-
suant to subsection (a) shall address the fol-
lowing:
(1) Issues that pertain to former employees
of the intelligence community working with,
or in support of, foreign governments, and
the nature and scope of those concerns.
(2) Such legislative or administrative ac-
tion as may be necessary for both front-end
screening and in-progress oversight by the
Director of Defense Trade Controls of li-
censes issued by the Director for former em-
ployees of the intelligence community work-
ing for foreign governments.
(3) How increased requirements could be
imposed for periodic compliance reporting
when licenses are granted for companies or
organizations that employ former personnel
of the intelligence community to execute
contracts with foreign governments.
(c) REPORT AND PLAN.—
(1) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES
OF CONGRESS.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
(2) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress—
(A) a report on the findings of the Director
with respect to the study conducted pursu-
ant to subsection (a); and
(B) a plan to carry out such administrative
actions as the Director considers appropriate
pursuant to the findings described in sub-
paragraph (A).
SEC. 402. COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC ASSESS-
MENT OF INVESTMENT IN KEY
UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGIES BY
COMPANIES OR ORGANIZATIONS
LINKED TO CHINA.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Director of
the National Counterintelligence and Secu-
rity Center, the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, the Director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, the Secretary
of the Treasury, and the heads of such other
Federal agencies as the Director of National
Intelligence considers appropriate, shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a comprehensive economic assess-
ment of investment in key United States
technologies, including emerging tech-
nologies, by companies or organizations
linked to China, including the implications
of these investments for the national secu-
rity of the United States.
(b) FORM OF ASSESSMENT.—The assessment
submitted under subsection (a) shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3728 June 18, 2019
SEC. 403. ANALYSIS OF AND PERIODIC BRIEFINGS
ON MAJOR INITIATIVES OF INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY IN ARTIFI-
CIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE
LEARNING.
(a) ANALYSIS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall,
in coordination with the heads of such ele-
ments of the intelligence community as the
Director considers appropriate—
(A) complete a comprehensive analysis of
the major initiatives of the intelligence com-
munity in artificial intelligence and ma-
chine learning; and
(B) submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the findings
of the Director with respect to the analysis
conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A).
(2) ELEMENTS.—The analysis conducted
under paragraph (1)(A) shall include analyses
of how the initiatives described in such para-
graph—
(A) correspond with the strategy of the in-
telligence community entitled ‘‘Augmenting
Intelligence Using Machines’’;
(B) complement each other and avoid un-
necessary duplication;
(C) are coordinated with the efforts of the
Defense Department on artificial intel-
ligence, including efforts at the Joint Artifi-
cial Intelligence Center (JAIC) and Project
Maven; and
(D) leverage advances in artificial intel-
ligence and machine learning in the private
sector.
(b) PERIODIC BRIEFINGS.—Not later than 30
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, not less frequently than twice each year
thereafter until the date that is 2 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
not less frequently than once each year
thereafter until the date that is 7 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director and the Chief Information Officer of
the Department of Defense shall jointly pro-
vide to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees and congressional defense commit-
tees (as defined in section 101 of title 10,
United States Code) briefings with updates
on activities relating to, and the progress of,
their respective artificial intelligence and
machine learning initiatives, particularly
the Augmenting Intelligence Using Machines
initiative and the Joint Artificial Intel-
ligence Center.
SEC. 404. ENCOURAGING COOPERATIVE ACTIONS
TO DETECT AND COUNTER FOREIGN
INFLUENCE OPERATIONS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The Russian Federation, through mili-
tary intelligence units, also known as the
‘‘GRU’’, and Kremlin-linked troll organiza-
tions often referred to as the ‘‘Internet Re-
search Agency’’, deploy information warfare
operations against the United States, its al-
lies and partners, with the goal of advancing
the strategic interests of the Russian Fed-
eration.
(2) One line of effort deployed as part of
these information warfare operations is the
weaponization of social media platforms
with the goals of intensifying societal ten-
sions, undermining trust in governmental in-
stitutions within the United States, its allies
and partners in the West, and generally sow-
ing division, fear, and confusion.
(3) These information warfare operations
are a threat to the national security of the
United States and that of the allies and part-
ners of the United States. As Director of Na-
tional Intelligence Dan Coats stated, ‘‘These
actions are persistent, they are pervasive
and they are meant to undermine America’s
democracy.’’.
(4) These information warfare operations
continue to evolve and increase in sophis-
tication.
(5) Other foreign adversaries and hostile
non-state actors will increasingly adopt
similar tactics of deploying information war-
fare operations against the West.
(6) Technological advances, including arti-
ficial intelligence, will only make it more
difficult in the future to detect fraudulent
accounts, deceptive material posted on so-
cial media, and malign behavior on social
media platforms.
(7) Because these information warfare op-
erations are deployed within and across pri-
vate social media platforms, the companies
that own these platforms have a responsi-
bility to detect and remove foreign adver-
sary networks operating clandestinely on
their platforms.
(8) The social media companies are inher-
ently technologically sophisticated and
adept at rapidly analyzing large amounts of
data and developing software-based solutions
to diverse and ever-changing challenges on
their platforms, which makes them well-
equipped to address the threat occurring on
their platforms.
(9) Independent analyses confirmed Krem-
lin-linked threat networks, based on data
provided by several social media companies
to the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate, thereby demonstrating that it is
possible to discern both broad patterns of
cross-platform information warfare oper-
ations and specific fraudulent behavior on
social media platforms.
(10) General Paul Nakasone, Director of
the National Security Agency, emphasized
the importance of these independent anal-
yses to the planning and conduct of military
cyber operations to frustrate Kremlin-linked
information warfare operations against the
2018 mid-term elections. General Nakasone
stated that the reports ‘‘were very, very
helpful in terms of being able to understand
exactly what our adversary was trying to do
to build dissent within our nation.’’.
(11) Institutionalizing ongoing robust,
independent, and vigorous analysis of data
related to foreign threat networks within
and across social media platforms will help
counter ongoing information warfare oper-
ations against the United States, its allies,
and its partners.
(12) Archiving and disclosing to the public
the results of these analyses by the social
media companies and trusted third-party ex-
perts in a transparent manner will serve to
demonstrate that the social media compa-
nies are detecting and removing foreign ma-
lign activities from their platforms while
protecting the privacy of the people of the
United States and will build public under-
standing of the scale and scope of these for-
eign threats to our democracy, since expo-
sure is one of the most effective means to
build resilience.
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense
of the Senate that—
(1) the social media companies should co-
operate among themselves and with inde-
pendent organizations and researchers on a
sustained and regular basis to share and ana-
lyze data and indicators relevant to foreign
information warfare operations within and
across their platforms in order to detect and
counter foreign information warfare oper-
ations that threaten the national security of
the United States and its allies and partners;
(2) these analytic efforts should be orga-
nized in such a fashion as to meet the high-
est standards of ethics, confidentiality, and
privacy protection of the people of the
United States;
(3) these analytic efforts should be under-
taken as soon as possible to facilitate coun-
tering ongoing Kremlin, Kremlin-linked, and
other foreign information warfare operations
and to aid in preparations for the United
States presidential and congressional elec-
tions in 2020 and beyond;
(4) the structure and operations of social
media companies make them well positioned
to address foreign adversary threat networks
within and across their platforms, and these
efforts could be conducted without direct
Government involvement, direction, or regu-
lation; and
(5) if the social media industry fails to
take sufficient action to address foreign ad-
versary threat networks operating within or
across their platforms, Congress would have
to consider additional safeguards for ensur-
ing that this threat is effectively mitigated.
(c) AUTHORITY TO FACILITATE ESTABLISH-
MENT OF SOCIAL MEDIA DATA ANALYSIS CEN-
TER.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—The Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of Defense, may facilitate, by grant or
contract or under an existing authority of
the Director, the establishment of a Social
Media Data Analysis Center with the func-
tions described in paragraph (2) at an inde-
pendent, nonprofit organization.
(2) FUNCTIONS.—The functions described in
this paragraph are the following:
(A) Acting as a convening and sponsoring
authority for cooperative social media data
analysis of foreign threat networks involving
social media companies and third-party ex-
perts, nongovernmental organizations, data
journalists, federally funded research and de-
velopment centers, and academic research-
ers.
(B) Facilitating analysis within and across
the individual social media platforms for the
purpose of detecting, exposing, and coun-
tering clandestine foreign influence oper-
ations and related unlawful activities that
fund or subsidize such operations.
(C) Developing processes to share informa-
tion from government entities on foreign in-
fluence operations with the individual social
media companies to inform threat analysis,
and working with the Office of the Director
of National Intelligence as appropriate.
(D) Determining and making public cri-
teria for identifying which companies, orga-
nizations, or researchers qualify for inclu-
sion in the activities of the Center, and in-
viting entities that fit the criteria to join.
(E) Determining jointly with the social
media companies what data and metadata
related to indicators of foreign adversary
threat networks from their platforms and
business operations will be made available
for access and analysis.
(F) Developing and making public the cri-
teria and standards that must be met for
companies, other organizations, and indi-
vidual researchers to access and analyze data
relating to foreign adversary threat net-
works within and across social media plat-
forms and publish or otherwise use the re-
sults.
(G) Developing and making public the eth-
ical standards for investigation of foreign
threat networks and use of analytic results
and for protection of the privacy of the cus-
tomers and users of the social media plat-
forms and of the proprietary information of
the social media companies.
(H) Developing technical, contractual, and
procedural controls to prevent misuse of
data, including any necessary auditing pro-
cedures, compliance checks, and review
mechanisms.
(I) Developing and making public criteria
and conditions under which the Center shall
share information with the appropriate Gov-
ernment agencies regarding threats to na-
tional security from, or violations of the law
involving, foreign activities on social media
platforms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3729
June 18, 2019
(J) Developing a searchable, public archive
aggregating information related to foreign
influence and disinformation operations to
build a collective understanding of the
threats and facilitate future examination
consistent with privacy protections.
(d) REPORTING AND NOTIFICATIONS.—If the
Director of National Intelligence chooses to
use funds under subsection (c)(1) to facilitate
the establishment of the Center, the Director
of the Center shall—
(1) not later than March 1, 2020, submit to
Congress a report on—
(A) the estimated funding needs of the Cen-
ter for fiscal year 2021 and for subsequent
years;
(B) such statutory protections from liabil-
ity as the Director considers necessary for
the Center, participating social media com-
panies, and participating third-party analyt-
ical participants;
(C) such statutory penalties as the Direc-
tor considers necessary to ensure against
misuse of data by researchers; and
(D) such changes to the Center’s mission to
fully capture broader unlawful activities
that intersect with, complement, or support
information warfare tactics; and
(2) not less frequently than once each year,
submit to the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the ap-
propriate congressional committees a re-
port—
(A) that assesses—
(i) degree of cooperation and commitment
from the social media companies to the mis-
sion of the Center; and
(ii) effectiveness of the Center in detecting
and removing clandestine foreign informa-
tion warfare operations from social media
platforms; and
(B) includes such recommendations for leg-
islative or administrative action as the Cen-
ter considers appropriate to carry out the
functions of the Center.
(e) PERIODIC REPORTING TO THE PUBLIC.—
The Director of the Center shall—
(1) once each quarter, make available to
the public a report on key trends in foreign
influence and disinformation operations, in-
cluding any threats to campaigns and elec-
tions, to inform the public of the United
States; and
(2) as the Director considers necessary,
provide more timely assessments relating to
ongoing disinformation campaigns.
(f) FUNDING.—Of the amounts appropriated
or otherwise made available to the National
Intelligence Program (as defined in section 3
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3003)) in fiscal year 2020 and 2021, the
Director of National Intelligence may use up
to $30,000,000 to carry out this section.
(g) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE CONGRES-
SIONAL COMMITTEES.—In this section, the
term ‘‘appropriate congressional commit-
tees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(4) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate;
(5) the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate;
(6) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(7) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(8) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives;
(9) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives; and
(10) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 405. OVERSIGHT OF FOREIGN INFLUENCE IN
ACADEMIA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDU-
CATION.—The term ‘‘covered institution of
higher education’’ means an institution de-
scribed in section 102 of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002) that re-
ceives Federal funds in any amount and for
any purpose.
(2) SENSITIVE RESEARCH SUBJECT.—The
term ‘‘sensitive research subject’’ means a
subject of research that is carried out at a
covered institution of higher education that
receives funds that were appropriated for—
(A) the National Intelligence Program; or
(B) any Federal agency the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence deems appropriate.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once each
year thereafter, the Director of National In-
telligence, in consultation with such ele-
ments of the intelligence community as the
Director considers appropriate and con-
sistent with the privacy protections afforded
to United States persons, shall submit to
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on risks to sensitive research subjects
posed by foreign entities in order to provide
Congress and covered institutions of higher
education with more complete information
on these risks and to help ensure academic
freedom.
(c) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A list of sensitive research subjects that
could affect national security.
(2) A list of foreign entities, including gov-
ernments, corporations, nonprofit organiza-
tions and for-profit organizations, and any
subsidiary or affiliate of such an entity, that
the Director determines pose a counterintel-
ligence, espionage (including economic espi-
onage), or other national security threats
with respect to sensitive research subjects.
(3) A list of any known or suspected at-
tempts by foreign entities to exert pressure
on covered institutions of higher education,
including attempts to limit freedom of
speech, propagate misinformation or
disinformation, or to influence professors,
researchers, or students.
(4) Recommendations for collaboration be-
tween covered institutions of higher edu-
cation and the intelligence community to
mitigate threats to sensitive research sub-
jects associated with foreign influence in
academia, including any necessary legisla-
tive or administrative action.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATIONS RE-
QUIRED.—Not later than 30 days after the
date on which the Director identifies a
change to either list described in paragraph
(1) or (2) of subsection (c), the Director shall
notify the congressional intelligence com-
mittees of the change.
SEC. 406. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE REPORT ON FIFTH-GEN-
ERATION WIRELESS NETWORK
TECHNOLOGY.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on—
(1) the threat to United States national se-
curity posed by the global and regional adop-
tion of fifth-generation (5G) wireless net-
work technology built by foreign companies;
and
(2) the effect of possible efforts to mitigate
the threat.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include:
(1) The timeline and scale of global and re-
gional adoption of foreign fifth-generation
wireless network technology.
(2) The implications of such global and re-
gional adoption on the cyber and espionage
threat to the United States and United
States interests as well as to United States
cyber and collection capabilities.
(3) The effect of possible mitigation efforts,
including:
(A) United States Government policy pro-
moting the use of strong, end-to-end
encryption for data transmitted over fifth-
generation wireless networks.
(B) United States Government policy pro-
moting or funding free, open-source imple-
mentation of fifth-generation wireless net-
work technology.
(C) United States Government subsidies or
incentives that could be used to promote the
adoption of secure fifth-generation wireless
network technology developed by companies
of the United States or companies of allies of
the United States.
(D) United States Government strategy to
reduce foreign influence and political pres-
sure in international standard-setting bod-
ies.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form to the greatest extent practicable,
but may include a classified appendix if nec-
essary.
SEC. 407. ANNUAL REPORT BY COMPTROLLER
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES
ON CYBERSECURITY AND SURVEIL-
LANCE THREATS TO CONGRESS.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on cybersecurity and surveillance
threats to Congress.
(b) STATISTICS.—Each report submitted
under subsection (a) shall include statistics
on cyber attacks and other incidents of espi-
onage or surveillance targeted against Sen-
ators or the immediate families or staff of
the Senators, in which the nonpublic com-
munications and other private information
of such targeted individuals were lost, sto-
len, or otherwise subject to unauthorized ac-
cess by criminals or a foreign government.
(c) CONSULTATION.—In preparing a report
to be submitted under subsection (a), the
Comptroller General shall consult with the
Director of National Intelligence, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and the Ser-
geant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.
SEC. 408. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE ASSESSMENTS OF FOR-
EIGN INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS.
(a) ASSESSMENTS REQUIRED.—Not later
than 45 days after the conclusion of a United
States election, the Director of National In-
telligence, in consultation with the heads of
such other executive departments and agen-
cies as the Director considers appropriate,
shall—
(1) conduct an assessment of any informa-
tion indicating that a foreign government, or
any person acting as an agent of or on behalf
of a foreign government, has acted with the
intent or purpose of interfering in that elec-
tion; and
(2) transmit the findings of the Director
with respect to the assessment conducted
under paragraph (1), along with such sup-
porting information as the Director con-
siders appropriate, to the following:
(A) The President.
(B) The Secretary of State.
(C) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(D) The Secretary of Defense.
(E) The Attorney General.
(F) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
(G) Congress.
(b) ELEMENTS.—An assessment conducted
under subsection (a)(1), with respect to an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3730 June 18, 2019
act described in such subsection, shall iden-
tify, to the maximum extent ascertainable,
the following:
(1) The nature of any foreign interference
and any methods employed to execute the
act.
(2) The persons involved.
(3) The foreign government or governments
that authorized, directed, sponsored, or sup-
ported the act.
(c) PUBLICATION.—In a case in which the
Director conducts an assessment under sub-
section (a)(1) with respect to an election, the
Director shall, as soon as practicable after
the date of the conclusion of such election
and not later than 60 days after the date of
such conclusion, make available to the pub-
lic, to the greatest extent possible consistent
with the protection of sources and methods,
the findings transmitted under subsection
(a)(2).
SEC. 409. STUDY ON FEASIBILITY AND ADVIS-
ABILITY OF ESTABLISHING
GEOSPATIAL-INTELLIGENCE MU-
SEUM AND LEARNING CENTER.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency shall complete a study
on the feasibility and advisability of estab-
lishing a Geospatial-Intelligence Museum
and learning center.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) Identifying the costs, opportunities, and
challenges of establishing the museum and
learning center as described in such sub-
section.
(2) Developing recommendations con-
cerning such establishment.
(3) Identifying and reviewing lessons
learned from the establishment of the Cyber
Center for Education and Innovation-Home
of the National Cryptologic Museum under
section 7781(a) of title 10, United States
Code.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees and the congres-
sional defense committees (as defined in sec-
tion 101 of title 10, United States Code) a re-
port on the findings of the Director with re-
spect to the study completed under sub-
section (a).
SEC. 410. REPORT ON DEATH OF JAMAL
KHASHOGGI.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to Congress a report on the death of
Jamal Khashoggi, consistent with protecting
sources and methods. Such report shall in-
clude identification of those who carried out,
participated in, ordered, or were otherwise
complicit in or responsible for the death of
Jamal Khashoggi.
(b) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form.
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE AUTHOR-
IZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND
2019
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This division may be
cited as the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Mat-
thew Young Pollard Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this division is as follows:
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE AUTHOR-
IZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND
2019
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authoriza-
tions.
Sec. 103. Intelligence Community Manage-
ment Account.
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DIS-
ABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 202. Computation of annuities for em-
ployees of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
Sec. 301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Sec. 302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 303. Modification of special pay author-
ity for science, technology, en-
gineering, or mathematics posi-
tions and addition of special
pay authority for cyber posi-
tions.
Sec. 304. Modification of appointment of
Chief Information Officer of the
Intelligence Community.
Sec. 305. Director of National Intelligence
review of placement of posi-
tions within the intelligence
community on the Executive
Schedule.
Sec. 306. Supply Chain and Counterintel-
ligence Risk Management Task
Force.
Sec. 307. Consideration of adversarial tele-
communications and cybersecu-
rity infrastructure when shar-
ing intelligence with foreign
governments and entities.
Sec. 308. Cyber protection support for the
personnel of the intelligence
community in positions highly
vulnerable to cyber attack.
Sec. 309. Modification of authority relating
to management of supply-chain
risk.
Sec. 310. Limitations on determinations re-
garding certain security classi-
fications.
Sec. 311. Joint Intelligence Community
Council.
Sec. 312. Intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment.
Sec. 313. Report on development of secure
mobile voice solution for intel-
ligence community.
Sec. 314. Policy on minimum insider threat
standards.
Sec. 315. Submission of intelligence commu-
nity policies.
Sec. 316. Expansion of intelligence commu-
nity recruitment efforts.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Sec. 401. Authority for protection of current
and former employees of the Of-
fice of the Director of National
Intelligence.
Sec. 402. Designation of the program man-
ager-information sharing envi-
ronment.
Sec. 403. Technical modification to the exec-
utive schedule.
Sec. 404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intel-
ligence Community.
Sec. 405. Chief Information Officer of the In-
telligence Community.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
Sec. 411. Central Intelligence Agency sub-
sistence for personnel assigned
to austere locations.
Sec. 412. Expansion of security protective
service jurisdiction of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 413. Repeal of foreign language pro-
ficiency requirement for cer-
tain senior level positions in
the Central Intelligence Agen-
cy.
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and Coun-
terintelligence of Department of Energy
Sec. 421. Consolidation of Department of En-
ergy Offices of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence.
Sec. 422. Repeal of Department of Energy In-
telligence Executive Com-
mittee and budget reporting re-
quirement.
Subtitle D—Other Elements
Sec. 431. Plan for designation of counter-
intelligence component of De-
fense Security Service as an
element of intelligence commu-
nity.
Sec. 432. Notice not required for private en-
tities.
Sec. 433. Framework for roles, missions, and
functions of Defense Intel-
ligence Agency.
Sec. 434. Establishment of advisory board
for National Reconnaissance
Office.
Sec. 435. Collocation of certain Department
of Homeland Security personnel
at field locations.
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
Sec. 501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign
governments against United
States election infrastructure.
Sec. 502. Review of intelligence commu-
nity’s posture to collect against
and analyze Russian efforts to
influence the Presidential elec-
tion.
Sec. 503. Assessment of foreign intelligence
threats to Federal elections.
Sec. 504. Strategy for countering Russian
cyber threats to United States
elections.
Sec. 505. Assessment of significant Russian
influence campaigns directed at
foreign elections and referenda.
Sec. 506. Foreign counterintelligence and
cybersecurity threats to Fed-
eral election campaigns.
Sec. 507. Information sharing with State
election officials.
Sec. 508. Notification of significant foreign
cyber intrusions and active
measures campaigns directed at
elections for Federal offices.
Sec. 509. Designation of counterintelligence
officer to lead election security
matters.
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Reports and plans relating to secu-
rity clearances and background
investigations.
Sec. 603. Improving the process for security
clearances.
Sec. 604. Goals for promptness of determina-
tions regarding security clear-
ances.
Sec. 605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 606. Report on unified, simplified, Gov-
ernmentwide standards for po-
sitions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 607. Report on clearance in person con-
cept.
Sec. 608. Budget request documentation on
funding for background inves-
tigations.
Sec. 609. Reports on reciprocity for security
clearances inside of depart-
ments and agencies.
Sec. 610. Intelligence community reports on
security clearances.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3731
June 18, 2019
Sec. 611. Periodic report on positions in the
intelligence community that
can be conducted without ac-
cess to classified information,
networks, or facilities.
Sec. 612. Information sharing program for
positions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 613. Report on protections for confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related
communications.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
Sec. 701. Limitation relating to establish-
ment or support of cybersecu-
rity unit with the Russian Fed-
eration.
Sec. 702. Report on returning Russian com-
pounds.
Sec. 703. Assessment of threat finance relat-
ing to Russia.
Sec. 704. Notification of an active measures
campaign.
Sec. 705. Notification of travel by accredited
diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federa-
tion in the United States.
Sec. 706. Report on outreach strategy ad-
dressing threats from United
States adversaries to the
United States technology sec-
tor.
Sec. 707. Report on Iranian support of proxy
forces in Syria and Lebanon.
Sec. 708. Annual report on Iranian expendi-
tures supporting foreign mili-
tary and terrorist activities.
Sec. 709. Expansion of scope of committee to
counter active measures and re-
port on establishment of For-
eign Malign Influence Center.
Subtitle B—Reports
Sec. 711. Technical correction to Inspector
General study.
Sec. 712. Reports on authorities of the Chief
Intelligence Officer of the De-
partment of Homeland Secu-
rity.
Sec. 713. Report on cyber exchange program.
Sec. 714. Review of intelligence community
whistleblower matters.
Sec. 715. Report on role of Director of Na-
tional Intelligence with respect
to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 716. Report on surveillance by foreign
governments against United
States telecommunications net-
works.
Sec. 717. Biennial report on foreign invest-
ment risks.
Sec. 718. Modification of certain reporting
requirement on travel of for-
eign diplomats.
Sec. 719. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified information.
Sec. 720. Congressional notification of des-
ignation of covered intelligence
officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 721. Reports on intelligence community
participation in vulnerabilities
equities process of Federal Gov-
ernment.
Sec. 722. Inspectors General reports on clas-
sification.
Sec. 723. Reports on global water insecurity
and national security implica-
tions and briefing on emerging
infectious disease and
pandemics.
Sec. 724. Annual report on memoranda of
understanding between ele-
ments of intelligence commu-
nity and other entities of the
United States Government re-
garding significant operational
activities or policy.
Sec. 725. Study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline
and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 726. Modification of requirement for an-
nual report on hiring and reten-
tion of minority employees.
Sec. 727. Reports on intelligence community
loan repayment and related
programs.
Sec. 728. Repeal of certain reporting require-
ments.
Sec. 729. Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community report on
senior executives of the Office
of the Director of National In-
telligence.
Sec. 730. Briefing on Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation offering permanent
residence to sources and co-
operators.
Sec. 731. Intelligence assessment of North
Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 732. Report on possible exploitation of
virtual currencies by terrorist
actors.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 741. Public Interest Declassification
Board.
Sec. 742. Securing energy infrastructure.
Sec. 743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 744. Modification of authorities relating
to the National Intelligence
University.
Sec. 745. Technical and clerical amendments
to the National Security Act of
1947.
Sec. 746. Technical amendments related to
the Department of Energy.
Sec. 747. Sense of Congress on notification of
certain disclosures of classified
information.
Sec. 748. Sense of Congress on consideration
of espionage activities when
considering whether or not to
provide visas to foreign individ-
uals to be accredited to a
United Nations mission in the
United States.
Sec. 749. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in such section.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year
2019 for the conduct of the intelligence and
intelligence-related activities of the fol-
lowing elements of the United States Gov-
ernment:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5) The National Security Agency.
(6) The Department of the Army, the De-
partment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force.
(7) The Coast Guard.
(8) The Department of State.
(9) The Department of the Treasury.
(10) The Department of Energy.
(11) The Department of Justice.
(12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13) The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
(14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(16) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(b) FISCAL YEAR 2018.—Funds that were ap-
propriated for fiscal year 2018 for the conduct
of the intelligence and intelligence-related
activities of the elements of the United
States set forth in subsection (a) are hereby
authorized.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.
(a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS.—The
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
section 101 for the conduct of the intel-
ligence activities of the elements listed in
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are
those specified in the classified Schedule of
Authorizations prepared to accompany this
division.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE
OF AUTHORIZATIONS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY.—The classified Schedule
of Authorizations referred to in subsection
(a) shall be made available to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives, and to the President.
(2) DISTRIBUTION BY THE PRESIDENT.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (3), the President shall pro-
vide for suitable distribution of the classified
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in
subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of
such Schedule, within the executive branch.
(3) LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE.—The President
shall not publicly disclose the classified
Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of
such Schedule except—
(A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Im-
plementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
(B) to the extent necessary to implement
the budget; or
(C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGE-
MENT ACCOUNT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account of the Director of National Intel-
ligence for fiscal year 2019 the sum of
$522,424,000.
(b) CLASSIFIED AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
Community Management Account by sub-
section (a), there are authorized to be appro-
priated for the Intelligence Community Man-
agement Account for fiscal year 2019 such ad-
ditional amounts as are specified in the clas-
sified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
in section 102(a).
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-
TEM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal
year 2019.
SEC. 202. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR EM-
PLOYEES OF THE CENTRAL INTEL-
LIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 221 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2031) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(3)(B), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘, as deter-
mined by using the annual rate of basic pay
that would be payable for full-time service in
that position.’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3732 June 18, 2019
(B) in subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), by striking
‘‘12-month’’ and inserting ‘‘2-year’’;
(C) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’;
(D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ each place such term appears and in-
serting ‘‘two years’’;
(E) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), (j),
(k), and (l) as subsections (i), (j), (k), (l), and
(m), respectively; and
(F) by inserting after subsection (g) the
following:
‘‘(h) CONDITIONAL ELECTION OF INSURABLE
INTEREST SURVIVOR ANNUITY BY PARTICI-
PANTS MARRIED AT THE TIME OF RETIRE-
MENT.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORITY TO MAKE DESIGNATION.—
Subject to the rights of former spouses under
subsection (b) and section 222, at the time of
retirement a married participant found by
the Director to be in good health may elect
to receive an annuity reduced in accordance
with subsection (f)(1)(B) and designate in
writing an individual having an insurable in-
terest in the participant to receive an annu-
ity under the system after the participant’s
death, except that any such election to pro-
vide an insurable interest survivor annuity
to the participant’s spouse shall only be ef-
fective if the participant’s spouse waives the
spousal right to a survivor annuity under
this Act. The amount of the annuity shall be
equal to 55 percent of the participant’s re-
duced annuity.
‘‘(2) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT’S ANNUITY.—
The annuity payable to the participant mak-
ing such election shall be reduced by 10 per-
cent of an annuity computed under sub-
section (a) and by an additional 5 percent for
each full 5 years the designated individual is
younger than the participant. The total re-
duction under this subparagraph may not ex-
ceed 40 percent.
‘‘(3) COMMENCEMENT OF SURVIVOR ANNU-
ITY.—The annuity payable to the designated
individual shall begin on the day after the
retired participant dies and terminate on the
last day of the month before the designated
individual dies.
‘‘(4) RECOMPUTATION OF PARTICIPANT’S AN-
NUITY ON DEATH OF DESIGNATED INDIVIDUAL.—
An annuity that is reduced under this sub-
section shall, effective the first day of the
month following the death of the designated
individual, be recomputed and paid as if the
annuity had not been so reduced.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIRE-
MENT ACT.—The Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) is
amended—
(i) in section 232(b)(1) (50 U.S.C. 2052(b)(1)),
by striking ‘‘221(h),’’ and inserting ‘‘221(i),’’;
and
(ii) in section 252(h)(4) (50 U.S.C. 2082(h)(4)),
by striking ‘‘221(k)’’ and inserting ‘‘221(l)’’.
(B) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF
1949.—Subsection (a) of section 14 of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50
U.S.C. 3514(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘221(h)(2), 221(i), 221(l),’’ and inserting
‘‘221(i)(2), 221(j), 221(m),’’.
(b) ANNUITIES FOR FORMER SPOUSES.—Sub-
paragraph (B) of section 222(b)(5) of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2032(b)(5)(B)) is amended by striking
‘‘one year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’.
(c) PRIOR SERVICE CREDIT.—Subparagraph
(A) of section 252(b)(3) of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C.
2082(b)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘Octo-
ber 1, 1990’’ both places that term appears
and inserting ‘‘March 31, 1991’’.
(d) REEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.—Sec-
tion 273 of the Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2113) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) PART-TIME REEMPLOYED ANNU-
ITANTS.—The Director shall have the author-
ity to reemploy an annuitant on a part-time
basis in accordance with section 8344(l) of
title 5, United States Code.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICATION.—The
amendments made by subsection (a)(1)(A)
and subsection (c) shall take effect as if en-
acted on October 28, 2009, and shall apply to
computations or participants, respectively,
as of such date.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
SEC. 301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTEL-
LIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
The authorization of appropriations by
this division shall not be deemed to con-
stitute authority for the conduct of any in-
telligence activity which is not otherwise
authorized by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States.
SEC. 302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSA-
TION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED
BY LAW.
Appropriations authorized by this division
for salary, pay, retirement, and other bene-
fits for Federal employees may be increased
by such additional or supplemental amounts
as may be necessary for increases in such
compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 303. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL PAY AU-
THORITY FOR SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHE-
MATICS POSITIONS AND ADDITION
OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR
CYBER POSITIONS.
Section 113B of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3049a) is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as
follows:
‘‘(a) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR POSITIONS
REQUIRING EXPERTISE IN SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHEMATICS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding part III
of title 5, United States Code, the head of
each element of the intelligence community
may, for 1 or more categories of positions in
such element that require expertise in
science, technology, engineering, or mathe-
matics—
‘‘(A) establish higher minimum rates of
pay; and
‘‘(B) make corresponding increases in all
rates of pay of the pay range for each grade
or level, subject to subsection (b) or (c), as
applicable.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT.—The special rate supple-
ments resulting from the establishment of
higher rates under paragraph (1) shall be
basic pay for the same or similar purposes as
those specified in section 5305(j) of title 5,
United States Code.’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b)
through (f) as subsections (c) through (g), re-
spectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR CYBER PO-
SITIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (c), the Director of the National Se-
curity Agency may establish a special rate of
pay—
‘‘(A) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for level II of the Executive Sched-
ule under section 5313 of title 5, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence,
in consultation with the Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Readiness, that
the rate of pay is for positions that perform
functions that execute the cyber mission of
the Agency; or
‘‘(B) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for the Vice President of the United
States under section 104 of title 3, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Secretary of Defense, by name, individuals
that have advanced skills and competencies
and that perform critical functions that exe-
cute the cyber mission of the Agency.
‘‘(2) PAY LIMITATION.—Employees receiving
a special rate under paragraph (1) shall be
subject to an aggregate pay limitation that
parallels the limitation established in sec-
tion 5307 of title 5, United States Code, ex-
cept that—
‘‘(A) any allowance, differential, bonus,
award, or other similar cash payment in ad-
dition to basic pay that is authorized under
title 10, United States Code, (or any other
applicable law in addition to title 5 of such
Code, excluding the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.)) shall also
be counted as part of aggregate compensa-
tion; and
‘‘(B) aggregate compensation may not ex-
ceed the rate established for the Vice Presi-
dent of the United States under section 104
of title 3, United States Code.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF RECIPI-
ENTS.—The number of individuals who re-
ceive basic pay established under paragraph
(1)(B) may not exceed 100 at any time.
‘‘(4) LIMITATION ON USE AS COMPARATIVE
REFERENCE.—Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, special rates of pay and the
limitation established under paragraph (1)(B)
may not be used as comparative references
for the purpose of fixing the rates of basic
pay or maximum pay limitations of qualified
positions under section 1599f of title 10,
United States Code, or section 226 of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
147).’’;
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘A minimum’’ and
inserting ‘‘Except as provided in subsection
(b), a minimum’’;
(5) in subsection (d), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or (b)’’ after ‘‘by
subsection (a)’’; and
(6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
paragraph (2)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2017’’ and inserting ‘‘Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ‘‘or
(b)’’ after ‘‘subsection (a)’’.
SEC. 304. MODIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
striking ‘‘President’’ and inserting ‘‘Direc-
tor’’.
SEC. 305. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE REVIEW OF PLACEMENT
OF POSITIONS WITHIN THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY ON THE EXEC-
UTIVE SCHEDULE.
(a) REVIEW.—The Director of National In-
telligence, in coordination with the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, shall
conduct a review of positions within the in-
telligence community regarding the place-
ment of such positions on the Executive
Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of
title 5, United States Code. In carrying out
such review, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management, shall
determine—
(1) the standards under which such review
will be conducted;
(2) which positions should or should not be
on the Executive Schedule; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3733
June 18, 2019
(3) for those positions that should be on the
Executive Schedule, the level of the Execu-
tive Schedule at which such positions should
be placed.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the date on which the review under sub-
section (a) is completed, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform of the House
of Representatives an unredacted report de-
scribing the standards by which the review
was conducted and the outcome of the re-
view.
SEC. 306. SUPPLY CHAIN AND COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE RISK MANAGEMENT TASK
FORCE.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Reform of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall estab-
lish a Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force to standardize
information sharing between the intelligence
community and the acquisition community
of the United States Government with re-
spect to the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks.
(c) MEMBERS.—The Supply Chain and
Counterintelligence Risk Management Task
Force established under subsection (b) shall
be composed of—
(1) a representative of the Defense Security
Service of the Department of Defense;
(2) a representative of the General Services
Administration;
(3) a representative of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget;
(4) a representative of the Department of
Homeland Security;
(5) a representative of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation;
(6) the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center; and
(7) any other members the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence determines appropriate.
(d) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—Each member
of the Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force established
under subsection (b) shall have a security
clearance at the top secret level and be able
to access sensitive compartmented informa-
tion.
(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Supply Chain
and Counterintelligence Risk Management
Task Force established under subsection (b)
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an annual report that de-
scribes the activities of the Task Force dur-
ing the previous year, including identifica-
tion of the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks shared with the acquisition
community of the United States Government
by the intelligence community.
SEC. 307. CONSIDERATION OF ADVERSARIAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND CYBER-
SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE WHEN
SHARING INTELLIGENCE WITH FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AND ENTITIES.
Whenever the head of an element of the in-
telligence community enters into an intel-
ligence sharing agreement with a foreign
government or any other foreign entity, the
head of the element shall consider the perva-
siveness of telecommunications and cyberse-
curity infrastructure, equipment, and serv-
ices provided by adversaries of the United
States, particularly China and Russia, or en-
tities of such adversaries in the country or
region of the foreign government or other
foreign entity entering into the agreement.
SEC. 308. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR THE
PERSONNEL OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY IN POSITIONS HIGHLY
VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PERSONAL ACCOUNTS.—The term ‘‘per-
sonal accounts’’ means accounts for online
and telecommunications services, including
telephone, residential Internet access, email,
text and multimedia messaging, cloud com-
puting, social media, health care, and finan-
cial services, used by personnel of the intel-
ligence community outside of the scope of
their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community.
(2) PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY DEVICES.—The
term ‘‘personal technology devices’’ means
technology devices used by personnel of the
intelligence community outside of the scope
of their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community, including networks to
which such devices connect.
(b) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE CYBER PROTEC-
TION SUPPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to a determina-
tion by the Director of National Intelligence,
the Director may provide cyber protection
support for the personal technology devices
and personal accounts of the personnel de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(2) AT-RISK PERSONNEL.—The personnel de-
scribed in this paragraph are personnel of
the intelligence community—
(A) who the Director determines to be
highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and hos-
tile information collection activities because
of the positions occupied by such personnel
in the intelligence community; and
(B) whose personal technology devices or
personal accounts are highly vulnerable to
cyber attacks and hostile information collec-
tion activities.
(c) NATURE OF CYBER PROTECTION SUP-
PORT.—Subject to the availability of re-
sources, the cyber protection support pro-
vided to personnel under subsection (b) may
include training, advice, assistance, and
other services relating to cyber attacks and
hostile information collection activities.
(d) LIMITATION ON SUPPORT.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed—
(1) to encourage personnel of the intel-
ligence community to use personal tech-
nology devices for official business; or
(2) to authorize cyber protection support
for senior intelligence community personnel
using personal devices, networks, and per-
sonal accounts in an official capacity.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the pro-
vision of cyber protection support under sub-
section (b). The report shall include—
(1) a description of the methodology used
to make the determination under subsection
(b)(2); and
(2) guidance for the use of cyber protection
support and tracking of support requests for
personnel receiving cyber protection support
under subsection (b).
SEC. 309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY RELAT-
ING TO MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLY-
CHAIN RISK.
(a) MODIFICATION OF EFFECTIVE DATE.—
Subsection (f) of section 309 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2012 (Public Law 112–87; 50 U.S.C. 3329 note) is
amended by striking ‘‘the date that is 180
days after’’.
(b) REPEAL OF SUNSET.—Such section is
amended by striking subsection (g).
(c) REPORTS.—Such section, as amended by
subsection (b), is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (f), as
amended by subsection (a), as subsection (g);
and
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of the Damon Paul
Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years
2018 and 2019 and not less frequently than
once each calendar year thereafter, the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall, in con-
sultation with each head of a covered agen-
cy, submit to the congressional intelligence
committees (as defined in section 3 of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003)), a report that details the determina-
tions and notifications made under sub-
section (c) during the most recently com-
pleted calendar year.
‘‘(2) INITIAL REPORT.—The first report sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall detail all
the determinations and notifications made
under subsection (c) before the date of the
submittal of the report.’’.
SEC. 310. LIMITATIONS ON DETERMINATIONS RE-
GARDING CERTAIN SECURITY CLAS-
SIFICATIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—An officer of an element
of the intelligence community who has been
nominated by the President for a position
that requires the advice and consent of the
Senate may not make a classification deci-
sion with respect to information related to
such officer’s nomination.
(b) CLASSIFICATION DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), in a case in which an officer
described in subsection (a) has been nomi-
nated as described in such subsection and
classification authority rests with the officer
or another officer who reports directly to
such officer, a classification decision with
respect to information relating to the officer
shall be made by the Director of National In-
telligence.
(2) NOMINATIONS OF DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE.—In a case described in para-
graph (1) in which the officer nominated is
the Director of National Intelligence, the
classification decision shall be made by the
Principal Deputy Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) REPORTS.—Whenever the Director or
the Principal Deputy Director makes a deci-
sion under subsection (b), the Director or the
Principal Deputy Director, as the case may
be, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report detailing the
reasons for the decision.
SEC. 311. JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
COUNCIL.
(a) MEETINGS.—Section 101A(d) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3022(d))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘regular’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘as the Director considers
appropriate’’ after ‘‘Council’’.
(b) REPORT ON FUNCTION AND UTILITY OF
THE JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY COUN-
CIL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Executive Office of the
President and members of the Joint Intel-
ligence Community Council, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the function and utility of the
Joint Intelligence Community Council.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The number of physical or virtual
meetings held by the Council per year since
the Council’s inception.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3734 June 18, 2019
(B) A description of the effect and accom-
plishments of the Council.
(C) An explanation of the unique role of
the Council relative to other entities, includ-
ing with respect to the National Security
Council and the Executive Committee of the
intelligence community.
(D) Recommendations for the future role
and operation of the Council.
(E) Such other matters relating to the
function and utility of the Council as the Di-
rector considers appropriate.
(3) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 312. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMA-
TION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CORE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘core service’’
means a capability that is available to mul-
tiple elements of the intelligence community
and required for consistent operation of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment.
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.—The term ‘‘intel-
ligence community information technology
environment’’ means all of the information
technology services across the intelligence
community, including the data sharing and
protection environment across multiple clas-
sification domains.
(b) ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(1) DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.—
The Director of National Intelligence shall
be responsible for coordinating the perform-
ance by elements of the intelligence commu-
nity of the intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment, including each
of the following:
(A) Ensuring compliance with all applica-
ble environment rules and regulations of
such environment.
(B) Ensuring measurable performance
goals exist for such environment.
(C) Documenting standards and practices
of such environment.
(D) Acting as an arbiter among elements of
the intelligence community related to any
disagreements arising out of the implemen-
tation of such environment.
(E) Delegating responsibilities to the ele-
ments of the intelligence community and
carrying out such other responsibilities as
are necessary for the effective implementa-
tion of such environment.
(2) CORE SERVICE PROVIDERS.—Providers of
core services shall be responsible for—
(A) providing core services, in coordination
with the Director of National Intelligence;
and
(B) providing the Director with informa-
tion requested and required to fulfill the re-
sponsibilities of the Director under para-
graph (1).
(3) USE OF CORE SERVICES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), each element of the intel-
ligence community shall use core services
when such services are available.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The Director of National
Intelligence may provide for a written excep-
tion to the requirement under subparagraph
(A) if the Director determines there is a com-
pelling financial or mission need for such ex-
ception.
(c) MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTABILITY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence shall designate and maintain
one or more accountable executives of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment to be responsible for—
(1) management, financial control, and in-
tegration of such environment;
(2) overseeing the performance of each core
service, including establishing measurable
service requirements and schedules;
(3) to the degree feasible, ensuring testing
of each core service of such environment, in-
cluding testing by the intended users, to
evaluate performance against measurable
service requirements and to ensure the capa-
bility meets user requirements; and
(4) coordinate transition or restructuring
efforts of such environment, including phase-
out of legacy systems.
(d) SECURITY PLAN.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall develop and maintain a security plan
for the intelligence community information
technology environment.
(e) LONG-TERM ROADMAP.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and during each of the second and
fourth fiscal quarters thereafter, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
long-term roadmap that shall include each of
the following:
(1) A description of the minimum required
and desired core service requirements, in-
cluding—
(A) key performance parameters; and
(B) an assessment of current, measured
performance.
(2) implementation milestones for the in-
telligence community information tech-
nology environment, including each of the
following:
(A) A schedule for expected deliveries of
core service capabilities during each of the
following phases:
(i) Concept refinement and technology ma-
turity demonstration.
(ii) Development, integration, and dem-
onstration.
(iii) Production, deployment, and
sustainment.
(iv) System retirement.
(B) Dependencies of such core service capa-
bilities.
(C) Plans for the transition or restruc-
turing necessary to incorporate core service
capabilities.
(D) A description of any legacy systems
and discontinued capabilities to be phased
out.
(3) Such other matters as the Director de-
termines appropriate.
(f) BUSINESS PLAN.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and during each of the second and fourth fis-
cal quarters thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a busi-
ness plan that includes each of the following:
(1) A systematic approach to identify core
service funding requests for the intelligence
community information technology environ-
ment within the proposed budget, including
multiyear plans to implement the long-term
roadmap required by subsection (e).
(2) A uniform approach by which each ele-
ment of the intelligence community shall
identify the cost of legacy information tech-
nology or alternative capabilities where
services of the intelligence community infor-
mation technology environment will also be
available.
(3) A uniform effort by which each element
of the intelligence community shall identify
transition and restructuring costs for new,
existing, and retiring services of the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, as well as services of such en-
vironment that have changed designations as
a core service.
(g) QUARTERLY PRESENTATIONS.—Beginning
not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the con-
gressional intelligence committees quarterly
updates regarding ongoing implementation
of the intelligence community information
technology environment as compared to the
requirements in the most recently submitted
security plan required by subsection (d),
long-term roadmap required by subsection
(e), and business plan required by subsection
(f).
(h) ADDITIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall provide
timely notification to the congressional in-
telligence committees regarding any policy
changes related to or affecting the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, new initiatives or strategies
related to or impacting such environment,
and changes or deficiencies in the execution
of the security plan required by subsection
(d), long-term roadmap required by sub-
section (e), and business plan required by
subsection (f)
(i) SUNSET.—The section shall have no ef-
fect on or after September 30, 2024.
SEC. 313. REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF SECURE
MOBILE VOICE SOLUTION FOR IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Director of the
National Security Agency, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
classified report on the feasibility, desir-
ability, cost, and required schedule associ-
ated with the implementation of a secure
mobile voice solution for the intelligence
community.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
(1) The benefits and disadvantages of a se-
cure mobile voice solution.
(2) Whether the intelligence community
could leverage commercially available tech-
nology for classified voice communications
that operates on commercial mobile net-
works in a secure manner and identifying
the accompanying security risks to such net-
works.
(3) A description of any policies or commu-
nity guidance that would be necessary to
govern the potential solution, such as a proc-
ess for determining the appropriate use of a
secure mobile telephone and any limitations
associated with such use.
SEC. 314. POLICY ON MINIMUM INSIDER THREAT
STANDARDS.
(a) POLICY REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall establish a policy for minimum insider
threat standards that is consistent with the
National Insider Threat Policy and Min-
imum Standards for Executive Branch In-
sider Threat Programs.
(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the head of each element of the intel-
ligence community shall implement the pol-
icy established under subsection (a).
SEC. 315. SUBMISSION OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY POLICIES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELECTRONIC REPOSITORY.—The term
‘‘electronic repository’’ means the electronic
distribution mechanism, in use as of the date
of the enactment of this Act, or any suc-
cessor electronic distribution mechanism, by
which the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the congressional intelligence
committees information.
(2) POLICY.—The term ‘‘policy’’, with re-
spect to the intelligence community, in-
cludes unclassified or classified—
(A) directives, policy guidance, and policy
memoranda of the intelligence community;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3735
June 18, 2019
(B) executive correspondence of the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence; and
(C) any equivalent successor policy instru-
ments.
(b) SUBMISSION OF POLICIES.—
(1) CURRENT POLICY.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees using the electronic re-
pository all nonpublicly available policies
issued by the Director of National Intel-
ligence for the intelligence community that
are in effect as of the date of the submission.
(2) CONTINUOUS UPDATES.—Not later than 15
days after the date on which the Director of
National Intelligence issues, modifies, or re-
scinds a policy of the intelligence commu-
nity, the Director shall—
(A) notify the congressional intelligence
committees of such addition, modification,
or removal; and
(B) update the electronic repository with
respect to such addition, modification, or re-
moval.
SEC. 316. EXPANSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY RECRUITMENT EFFORTS.
In order to further increase the diversity of
the intelligence community workforce, not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in consultation with heads of
elements of the Intelligence Community,
shall create, implement, and submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a
written plan to ensure that rural and under-
represented regions are more fully and con-
sistently represented in such elements’ em-
ployment recruitment efforts. Upon receipt
of the plan, the congressional committees
shall have 60 days to submit comments to
the Director of National Intelligence before
such plan shall be implemented.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of National
Intelligence
SEC. 401. AUTHORITY FOR PROTECTION OF CUR-
RENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF
THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
Section 5(a)(4) of the Central Intelligence
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3506(a)(4)) is
amended by striking ‘‘such personnel of the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence as the Director of National Intel-
ligence may designate;’’ and inserting ‘‘cur-
rent and former personnel of the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence and their
immediate families as the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may designate;’’.
SEC. 402. DESIGNATION OF THE PROGRAM MAN-
AGER-INFORMATION SHARING ENVI-
RONMENT.
(a) INFORMATION SHARING ENVIRONMENT.—
Section 1016(b) of the Intelligence Reform
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6
U.S.C. 485(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ and inserting ‘‘Director of National In-
telligence’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ both places that term appears and in-
serting ‘‘Director of National Intelligence’’.
(b) PROGRAM MANAGER.—Section 1016(f)(1)
of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism
Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(f)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘The individual des-
ignated as the program manager shall serve
as program manager until removed from
service or replaced by the President (at the
President’s sole discretion).’’ and inserting
‘‘Beginning on the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019, each individual
designated as the program manager shall be
appointed by the Director of National Intel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 403. TECHNICAL MODIFICATION TO THE EX-
ECUTIVE SCHEDULE.
Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Director of the National Counterintel-
ligence and Security Center.’’.
SEC. 404. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103I(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3034(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Financial Officer shall re-
port directly to the Director of National In-
telligence.’’.
SEC. 405. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Information Officer shall
report directly to the Director of National
Intelligence.’’.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
SEC. 411. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY SUB-
SISTENCE FOR PERSONNEL AS-
SIGNED TO AUSTERE LOCATIONS.
Subsection (a) of section 5 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C.
3506) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(50 U.S.C.
403–4a).,’’ and inserting ‘‘(50 U.S.C. 403–4a),’’;
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (7), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph (8):
‘‘(8) Upon the approval of the Director, pro-
vide, during any fiscal year, with or without
reimbursement, subsistence to any personnel
assigned to an overseas location designated
by the Agency as an austere location.’’.
SEC. 412. EXPANSION OF SECURITY PROTECTIVE
SERVICE JURISDICTION OF THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
Subsection (a) of section 15 of the Central
Intelligence Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3515(a)) is
amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘POLICEMEN’’ and inserting ‘‘POLICE OFFI-
CERS’’; and
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘500
feet;’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards;’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘500
feet.’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards.’’.
SEC. 413. REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT FOR CER-
TAIN SENIOR LEVEL POSITIONS IN
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY.
(a) REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT.—Section 104A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3036)
is amended by striking subsection (g).
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL OF REPORT RE-
QUIREMENT.—Section 611 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Pub-
lic Law 108–487) is amended by striking sub-
section (c).
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence of Department of Energy
SEC. 421. CONSOLIDATION OF DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY OFFICES OF INTELLIGENCE
AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 215 of the Depart-
ment of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C.
7144b) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE AND
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
‘‘SEC. 215. (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section,
the terms ‘intelligence community’ and ‘Na-
tional Intelligence Program’ have the mean-
ings given such terms in section 3 of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
‘‘(b) IN GENERAL.—There is in the Depart-
ment an Office of Intelligence and Counter-
intelligence. Such office shall be under the
National Intelligence Program.
‘‘(c) DIRECTOR.—(1) The head of the Office
shall be the Director of the Office of Intel-
ligence and Counterintelligence, who shall
be an employee in the Senior Executive
Service, the Senior Intelligence Service, the
Senior National Intelligence Service, or any
other Service that the Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the Director of National Intel-
ligence, considers appropriate. The Director
of the Office shall report directly to the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall select an indi-
vidual to serve as the Director from among
individuals who have substantial expertise in
matters relating to the intelligence commu-
nity, including foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence.
‘‘(d) DUTIES.—(1) Subject to the authority,
direction, and control of the Secretary, the
Director shall perform such duties and exer-
cise such powers as the Secretary may pre-
scribe.
‘‘(2) The Director shall be responsible for
establishing policy for intelligence and coun-
terintelligence programs and activities at
the Department.’’.
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL.—Section 216 of
the Department of Energy Organization Act
(42 U.S.C. 7144c) is hereby repealed.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents at the beginning of the Department
of Energy Organization Act is amended by
striking the items relating to sections 215
and 216 and inserting the following new item:
‘‘215. Office of Intelligence and Counterintel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 422. REPEAL OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
INTELLIGENCE EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE AND BUDGET REPORTING
REQUIREMENT.
Section 214 of the Department of Energy
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144a) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘(a) DUTY OF SECRETARY.—
’’; and
(2) by striking subsections (b) and (c).
Subtitle D—Other Elements
SEC. 431. PLAN FOR DESIGNATION OF COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE COMPONENT OF DE-
FENSE SECURITY SERVICE AS AN
ELEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence and Under Secretary of
Defense for Intelligence, in coordination
with the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center, shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees, the Committee on Armed Services
of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives a
plan to designate the counterintelligence
component of the Defense Security Service
of the Department of Defense as an element
of the intelligence community by not later
than January 1, 2019. Such plan shall—
(1) address the implications of such des-
ignation on the authorities, governance, per-
sonnel, resources, information technology,
collection, analytic products, information
sharing, and business processes of the De-
fense Security Service and the intelligence
community; and
(2) not address the personnel security func-
tions of the Defense Security Service.
SEC. 432. NOTICE NOT REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE
ENTITIES.
Section 3553 of title 44, United States Code,
is amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3736 June 18, 2019
(1) by redesignating subsection (j) as sub-
section (k); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to require the
Secretary to provide notice to any private
entity before the Secretary issues a binding
operational directive under subsection
(b)(2).’’.
SEC. 433. FRAMEWORK FOR ROLES, MISSIONS,
AND FUNCTIONS OF DEFENSE IN-
TELLIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense
shall jointly establish a framework to ensure
the appropriate balance of resources for the
roles, missions, and functions of the Defense
Intelligence Agency in its capacity as an ele-
ment of the intelligence community and as a
combat support agency. The framework shall
include supporting processes to provide for
the consistent and regular reevaluation of
the responsibilities and resources of the De-
fense Intelligence Agency to prevent imbal-
anced priorities, insufficient or misaligned
resources, and the unauthorized expansion of
mission parameters.
(b) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The frame-
work required under subsection (a) shall in-
clude each of the following:
(1) A lexicon providing for consistent defi-
nitions of relevant terms used by both the
intelligence community and the Department
of Defense, including each of the following:
(A) Defense intelligence enterprise.
(B) Enterprise manager.
(C) Executive agent.
(D) Function.
(E) Functional manager.
(F) Mission.
(G) Mission manager.
(H) Responsibility.
(I) Role.
(J) Service of common concern.
(2) An assessment of the necessity of main-
taining separate designations for the intel-
ligence community and the Department of
Defense for intelligence functional or enter-
prise management constructs.
(3) A repeatable process for evaluating the
addition, transfer, or elimination of defense
intelligence missions, roles, and functions,
currently performed or to be performed in
the future by the Defense Intelligence Agen-
cy, which includes each of the following:
(A) A justification for the addition, trans-
fer, or elimination of a mission, role, or func-
tion.
(B) The identification of which, if any, ele-
ment of the Federal Government performs
the considered mission, role, or function.
(C) In the case of any new mission, role, or
function—
(i) an assessment of the most appropriate
agency or element to perform such mission,
role, or function, taking into account the re-
source profiles, scope of responsibilities, pri-
mary customers, and existing infrastructure
necessary to support such mission, role, or
function; and
(ii) a determination of the appropriate re-
source profile and an identification of the
projected resources needed and the proposed
source of such resources over the future-
years defense program, to be provided in
writing to any elements of the intelligence
community or the Department of Defense af-
fected by the assumption, transfer, or elimi-
nation of any mission, role, or function.
(D) In the case of any mission, role, or
function proposed to be assumed, trans-
ferred, or eliminated, an assessment, which
shall be completed jointly by the heads of
each element affected by such assumption,
transfer, or elimination, of the risks that
would be assumed by the intelligence com-
munity and the Department if such mission,
role, or function is assumed, transferred, or
eliminated.
(E) A description of how determinations
are made regarding the funding of programs
and activities under the National Intel-
ligence Program and the Military Intel-
ligence Program, including—
(i) which programs or activities are funded
under each such Program;
(ii) which programs or activities should be
jointly funded under both such Programs and
how determinations are made with respect to
funding allocations for such programs and
activities; and
(iii) the thresholds and process for chang-
ing a program or activity from being funded
under one such Program to being funded
under the other such Program.
SEC. 434. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY BOARD
FOR NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE
OFFICE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 106A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3041a) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(d) ADVISORY BOARD.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the National Reconnaissance Office an ad-
visory board (in this section referred to as
the ‘Board’).
‘‘(2) DUTIES.—The Board shall—
‘‘(A) study matters relating to the mission
of the National Reconnaissance Office, in-
cluding with respect to promoting innova-
tion, competition, and resilience in space,
overhead reconnaissance, acquisition, and
other matters; and
‘‘(B) advise and report directly to the Di-
rector with respect to such matters.
‘‘(3) MEMBERS.—
‘‘(A) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall be com-
posed of 5 members appointed by the Direc-
tor from among individuals with dem-
onstrated academic, government, business,
or other expertise relevant to the mission
and functions of the National Reconnais-
sance Office.
‘‘(ii) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Director ap-
points a member to the Board, the Director
shall notify the congressional intelligence
committees and the congressional defense
committees (as defined in section 101(a) of
title 10, United States Code) of such appoint-
ment.
‘‘(B) TERMS.—Each member shall be ap-
pointed for a term of 2 years. Except as pro-
vided by subparagraph (C), a member may
not serve more than 3 terms.
‘‘(C) VACANCY.—Any member appointed to
fill a vacancy occurring before the expira-
tion of the term for which the member’s
predecessor was appointed shall be appointed
only for the remainder of that term. A mem-
ber may serve after the expiration of that
member’s term until a successor has taken
office.
‘‘(D) CHAIR.—The Board shall have a Chair,
who shall be appointed by the Director from
among the members.
‘‘(E) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Each member
shall receive travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance
with applicable provisions under subchapter
I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(F) EXECUTIVE SECRETARY.—The Director
may appoint an executive secretary, who
shall be an employee of the National Recon-
naissance Office, to support the Board.
‘‘(4) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet not
less than quarterly, but may meet more fre-
quently at the call of the Director.
‘‘(5) REPORTS.—Not later than March 31 of
each year, the Board shall submit to the Di-
rector and to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the activities and
significant findings of the Board during the
preceding year.
‘‘(6) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the
Board.
‘‘(7) TERMINATION.—The Board shall termi-
nate on the date that is 3 years after the
date of the first meeting of the Board.’’.
(b) INITIAL APPOINTMENTS.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of the National Recon-
naissance Office shall appoint the initial 5
members to the advisory board under sub-
section (d) of section 106A of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a), as
added by subsection (a).
SEC. 435. COLLOCATION OF CERTAIN DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
PERSONNEL AT FIELD LOCATIONS.
(a) IDENTIFICATION OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
COLLOCATION.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis shall identify, in
consultation with the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, the Admin-
istrator of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, the Director of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, and the
heads of such other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security as the Under
Secretary considers appropriate, opportuni-
ties for collocation of officers of the Office of
Intelligence and Analysis in the field outside
of the greater Washington, District of Co-
lumbia, area in order to support operational
units from U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration, U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, and other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
(b) PLAN FOR COLLOCATION.—Not later than
120 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit
to the congressional intelligence committees
a report that includes a plan for collocation
as described in subsection (a).
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
SEC. 501. REPORT ON CYBER ATTACKS BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES ELECTION INFRA-
STRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(D) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate; and
(E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means any
State of the United States, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity for Intelligence and Analysis shall sub-
mit to congressional leadership and the ap-
propriate congressional committees a report
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3737
June 18, 2019
on cyber attacks and attempted cyber at-
tacks by foreign governments on United
States election infrastructure in States and
localities in connection with the 2016 Presi-
dential election in the United States and
such cyber attacks or attempted cyber at-
tacks as the Under Secretary anticipates
against such infrastructure. Such report
shall identify the States and localities af-
fected and shall include cyber attacks and
attempted cyber attacks against voter reg-
istration databases, voting machines, voting-
related computer networks, and the net-
works of Secretaries of State and other elec-
tion officials of the various States.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 502. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY’S POSTURE TO COLLECT
AGAINST AND ANALYZE RUSSIAN EF-
FORTS TO INFLUENCE THE PRESI-
DENTIAL ELECTION.
(a) REVIEW REQUIRED.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall—
(1) complete an after action review of the
posture of the intelligence community to
collect against and analyze efforts of the
Government of Russia to interfere in the 2016
Presidential election in the United States;
and
(2) submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the findings of the
Director with respect to such review.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The review required by
subsection (a) shall include, with respect to
the posture and efforts described in para-
graph (1) of such subsection, the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the resources
of the intelligence community were properly
aligned to detect and respond to the efforts
described in subsection (a)(1).
(2) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred within elements of the in-
telligence community.
(3) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred between elements of the
intelligence community.
(4) An assessment of applicable authorities
necessary to collect on any such efforts and
any deficiencies in those authorities.
(5) A review of the use of open source mate-
rial to inform analysis and warning of such
efforts.
(6) A review of the use of alternative and
predictive analysis.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (a)(2) shall be submitted to the
congressional intelligence committees in a
classified form.
SEC. 503. ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN INTEL-
LIGENCE THREATS TO FEDERAL
ELECTIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 102 of the Cyber-
security Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6
U.S.C. 1501).
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Direc-
tor of the Central Intelligence Agency, the
Director of the National Security Agency,
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, and the heads of other relevant ele-
ments of the intelligence community, shall—
(1) commence not later than 1 year before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, and com-
plete not later than 180 days before such
election, an assessment of security
vulnerabilities of State election systems;
and
(2) not later than 180 days before any regu-
larly scheduled Federal election occurring
after December 31, 2018, submit a report on
such security vulnerabilities and an assess-
ment of foreign intelligence threats to the
election to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
(c) UPDATE.—Not later than 90 days before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, the Director
of National Intelligence shall—
(1) update the assessment of foreign intel-
ligence threats to that election; and
(2) submit the updated assessment to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
SEC. 504. STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING RUSSIAN
CYBER THREATS TO UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(4) The Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
(5) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR A STRATEGY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Di-
rector of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of De-
fense, and the Secretary of the Treasury,
shall develop a whole-of-government strat-
egy for countering the threat of Russian
cyber attacks and attempted cyber attacks
against electoral systems and processes in
the United States, including Federal, State,
and local election systems, voter registra-
tion databases, voting tabulation equipment,
and equipment and processes for the secure
transmission of election results.
(c) ELEMENTS OF THE STRATEGY.—The
strategy required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude the following elements:
(1) A whole-of-government approach to pro-
tecting United States electoral systems and
processes that includes the agencies and de-
partments indicated in subsection (b) as well
as any other agencies and departments of the
United States, as determined appropriate by
the Director of National Intelligence and the
Secretary of Homeland Security.
(2) Input solicited from Secretaries of
State of the various States and the chief
election officials of the States.
(3) Technical security measures, including
auditable paper trails for voting machines,
securing wireless and Internet connections,
and other technical safeguards.
(4) Detection of cyber threats, including
attacks and attempted attacks by Russian
government or nongovernment cyber threat
actors.
(5) Improvements in the identification and
attribution of Russian government or non-
government cyber threat actors.
(6) Deterrence, including actions and meas-
ures that could or should be undertaken
against or communicated to the Government
of Russia or other entities to deter attacks
against, or interference with, United States
election systems and processes.
(7) Improvements in Federal Government
communications with State and local elec-
tion officials.
(8) Public education and communication
efforts.
(9) Benchmarks and milestones to enable
the measurement of concrete steps taken
and progress made in the implementation of
the strategy.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence and the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity shall jointly brief the appropriate con-
gressional committees on the strategy devel-
oped under subsection (b).
SEC. 505. ASSESSMENT OF SIGNIFICANT RUSSIAN
INFLUENCE CAMPAIGNS DIRECTED
AT FOREIGN ELECTIONS AND
REFERENDA.
(a) RUSSIAN INFLUENCE CAMPAIGN DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Russian
influence campaign’’ means any effort, cov-
ert or overt, and by any means, attributable
to the Russian Federation directed at an
election, referendum, or similar process in a
country other than the Russian Federation
or the United States.
(b) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
60 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report containing an
analytical assessment of the most signifi-
cant Russian influence campaigns, if any,
conducted during the 3-year period preceding
the date of the enactment of this Act, as well
as the most significant current or planned
such Russian influence campaigns, if any.
Such assessment shall include—
(1) a summary of such significant Russian
influence campaigns, including, at a min-
imum, the specific means by which such
campaigns were conducted, are being con-
ducted, or likely will be conducted, as appro-
priate, and the specific goal of each such
campaign;
(2) a summary of any defenses against or
responses to such Russian influence cam-
paigns by the foreign state holding the elec-
tions or referenda;
(3) a summary of any relevant activities by
elements of the intelligence community un-
dertaken for the purpose of assisting the
government of such foreign state in defend-
ing against or responding to such Russian in-
fluence campaigns; and
(4) an assessment of the effectiveness of
such defenses and responses described in
paragraphs (2) and (3).
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) may be submitted in classified
form, but if so submitted, shall contain an
unclassified summary.
SEC. 506. FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND
CYBERSECURITY THREATS TO FED-
ERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As provided in paragraph
(2), for each Federal election, the Director of
National Intelligence, in coordination with
the Under Secretary of Homeland Security
for Intelligence and Analysis and the Direc-
tor of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3738 June 18, 2019
shall make publicly available on an Internet
website an advisory report on foreign coun-
terintelligence and cybersecurity threats to
election campaigns for Federal offices. Each
such report shall include, consistent with
the protection of sources and methods, each
of the following:
(A) A description of foreign counterintel-
ligence and cybersecurity threats to election
campaigns for Federal offices.
(B) A summary of best practices that elec-
tion campaigns for Federal offices can em-
ploy in seeking to counter such threats.
(C) An identification of any publicly avail-
able resources, including United States Gov-
ernment resources, for countering such
threats.
(2) SCHEDULE FOR SUBMITTAL.—A report
under this subsection shall be made avail-
able as follows:
(A) In the case of a report regarding an
election held for the office of Senator or
Member of the House of Representatives dur-
ing 2018, not later than the date that is 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(B) In the case of a report regarding an
election for a Federal office during any sub-
sequent year, not later than the date that is
1 year before the date of the election.
(3) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED.—A report
under this subsection shall reflect the most
current information available to the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence regarding for-
eign counterintelligence and cybersecurity
threats.
(b) TREATMENT OF CAMPAIGNS SUBJECT TO
HEIGHTENED THREATS.—If the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis jointly determine
that an election campaign for Federal office
is subject to a heightened foreign counter-
intelligence or cybersecurity threat, the Di-
rector and the Under Secretary, consistent
with the protection of sources and methods,
may make available additional information
to the appropriate representatives of such
campaign.
SEC. 507. INFORMATION SHARING WITH STATE
ELECTION OFFICIALS.
(a) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ means any State of the United
States, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory
or possession of the United States.
(b) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
support the Under Secretary of Homeland
Security for Intelligence and Analysis, and
any other official of the Department of
Homeland Security designated by the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, in sponsoring a
security clearance up to the top secret level
for each eligible chief election official of a
State or the District of Columbia, and addi-
tional eligible designees of such election offi-
cial as appropriate, at the time that such
election official assumes such position.
(2) INTERIM CLEARANCES.—Consistent with
applicable policies and directives, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence may issue in-
terim clearances, for a period to be deter-
mined by the Director, to a chief election of-
ficial as described in paragraph (1) and up to
1 designee of such official under such para-
graph.
(c) INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall assist the Under Secretary
of Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis and the Under Secretary respon-
sible for overseeing critical infrastructure
protection, cybersecurity, and other related
programs of the Department (as specified in
section 103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 113(a)(1)(H))) with shar-
ing any appropriate classified information
related to threats to election systems and to
the integrity of the election process with
chief election officials and such designees
who have received a security clearance under
subsection (b).
(2) COORDINATION.—The Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis shall coordinate with the Director
of National Intelligence and the Under Sec-
retary responsible for overseeing critical in-
frastructure protection, cybersecurity, and
other related programs of the Department
(as specified in section 103(a)(1)(H) of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
113(a)(1)(H))) to facilitate the sharing of in-
formation to the affected Secretaries of
State or States.
SEC. 508. NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND AC-
TIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGNS DI-
RECTED AT ELECTIONS FOR FED-
ERAL OFFICES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGN.—The term
‘‘active measures campaign’’ means a foreign
semi-covert or covert intelligence operation.
(2) CANDIDATE, ELECTION, AND POLITICAL
PARTY.—The terms ‘‘candidate’’, ‘‘election’’,
and ‘‘political party’’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 301 of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101).
(3) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(4) CYBER INTRUSION.—The term ‘‘cyber in-
trusion’’ means an electronic occurrence
that actually or imminently jeopardizes,
without lawful authority, electronic election
infrastructure, or the integrity, confiden-
tiality, or availability of information within
such infrastructure.
(5) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUC-
TURE.—The term ‘‘electronic election infra-
structure’’ means an electronic information
system of any of the following that is related
to an election for Federal office:
(A) The Federal Government.
(B) A State or local government.
(C) A political party.
(D) The election campaign of a candidate.
(6) FEDERAL OFFICE.—The term ‘‘Federal
office’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
(7) HIGH CONFIDENCE.—The term ‘‘high con-
fidence’’, with respect to a determination,
means that the determination is based on
high-quality information from multiple
sources.
(8) MODERATE CONFIDENCE.—The term
‘‘moderate confidence’’, with respect to a de-
termination, means that a determination is
credibly sourced and plausible but not of suf-
ficient quality or corroborated sufficiently
to warrant a higher level of confidence.
(9) OTHER APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL
COMMITTEES.—The term ‘‘other appropriate
congressional committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
(b) DETERMINATIONS OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGNS.—The Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall jointly carry out
subsection (c) if such Directors and the Sec-
retary jointly determine—
(1) that on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, a significant foreign cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign in-
tended to influence an upcoming election for
any Federal office has occurred or is occur-
ring; and
(2) with moderate or high confidence, that
such intrusion or campaign can be attributed
to a foreign state or to a foreign nonstate
person, group, or other entity.
(c) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 14 days
after making a determination under sub-
section (b), the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall jointly provide a briefing
to the congressional leadership, the congres-
sional intelligence committees and, con-
sistent with the protection of sources and
methods, the other appropriate congres-
sional committees. The briefing shall be
classified and address, at a minimum, the
following:
(A) A description of the significant foreign
cyber intrusion or active measures cam-
paign, as the case may be, covered by the de-
termination.
(B) An identification of the foreign state or
foreign nonstate person, group, or other enti-
ty, to which such intrusion or campaign has
been attributed.
(C) The desirability and feasibility of the
public release of information about the cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign.
(D) Any other information such Directors
and the Secretary jointly determine appro-
priate.
(2) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
BRIEFINGS.—With respect to a significant for-
eign cyber intrusion covered by a determina-
tion under subsection (b), the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Director of National Intelligence and the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall offer to the owner or operator of
any electronic election infrastructure di-
rectly affected by such intrusion, a briefing
on such intrusion, including steps that may
be taken to mitigate such intrusion. Such
briefing may be classified and made avail-
able only to individuals with appropriate se-
curity clearances.
(3) PROTECTION OF SOURCES AND METHODS.—
This subsection shall be carried out in a
manner that is consistent with the protec-
tion of sources and methods.
SEC. 509. DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER TO LEAD ELEC-
TION SECURITY MATTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall designate a national coun-
terintelligence officer within the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center to
lead, manage, and coordinate counterintel-
ligence matters relating to election security.
(b) ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.—The per-
son designated under subsection (a) shall
also lead, manage, and coordinate counter-
intelligence matters relating to risks posed
by interference from foreign powers (as de-
fined in section 101 of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C.
1801)) to the following:
(1) The Federal Government election secu-
rity supply chain.
(2) Election voting systems and software.
(3) Voter registration databases.
(4) Critical infrastructure related to elec-
tions.
(5) Such other Government goods and serv-
ices as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3739
June 18, 2019
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(E) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(F) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives;
(G) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives; and
(H) the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form of the House of Representatives.
(2) APPROPRIATE INDUSTRY PARTNERS.—The
term ‘‘appropriate industry partner’’ means
a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined
in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to National Indus-
trial Security Program)) that is partici-
pating in the National Industrial Security
Program established by such Executive
Order.
(3) CONTINUOUS VETTING.—The term ‘‘con-
tinuous vetting’’ has the meaning given such
term in Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information).
(4) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing
Performance Accountability Council estab-
lished pursuant to such Executive Order, or
any successor entity.
(5) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘‘Security Executive Agent’’ means the offi-
cer serving as the Security Executive Agent
pursuant to section 803 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947, as added by section 605.
(6) SUITABILITY AND CREDENTIALING EXECU-
TIVE AGENT.—The term ‘‘Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent’’ means the
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment acting as the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent in accordance
with Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information), or any successor entity.
SEC. 602. REPORTS AND PLANS RELATING TO SE-
CURITY CLEARANCES AND BACK-
GROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) ensuring the trustworthiness and secu-
rity of the workforce, facilities, and informa-
tion of the Federal Government is of the
highest priority to national security and
public safety;
(2) the President and Congress should
prioritize the modernization of the personnel
security framework to improve its effi-
ciency, effectiveness, and accountability;
(3) the current system for security clear-
ance, suitability and fitness for employment,
and credentialing lacks efficiencies and ca-
pabilities to meet the current threat envi-
ronment, recruit and retain a trusted work-
force, and capitalize on modern technologies;
and
(4) changes to policies or processes to im-
prove this system should be vetted through
the Council to ensure standardization, port-
ability, and reciprocity in security clear-
ances across the Federal Government.
(b) ACCOUNTABILITY PLANS AND REPORTS.—
(1) PLANS.—Not later than 90 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners the following:
(A) A plan, with milestones, to reduce the
background investigation inventory to
200,000, or an otherwise sustainable steady-
level, by the end of year 2020. Such plan shall
include notes of any required changes in in-
vestigative and adjudicative standards or re-
sources.
(B) A plan to consolidate the conduct of
background investigations associated with
the processing for security clearances in the
most effective and efficient manner between
the National Background Investigation Bu-
reau and the Defense Security Service, or a
successor organization. Such plan shall ad-
dress required funding, personnel, contracts,
information technology, field office struc-
ture, policy, governance, schedule, transition
costs, and effects on stakeholders.
(2) REPORT ON THE FUTURE OF PERSONNEL
SECURITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chairman of the Council, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report on the future of
personnel security to reflect changes in
threats, the workforce, and technology.
(B) CONTENTS.—The report submitted
under subparagraph (A) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(i) A risk framework for granting and re-
newing access to classified information.
(ii) A discussion of the use of technologies
to prevent, detect, and monitor threats.
(iii) A discussion of efforts to address reci-
procity and portability.
(iv) A discussion of the characteristics of
effective insider threat programs.
(v) An analysis of how to integrate data
from continuous evaluation, insider threat
programs, and human resources data.
(vi) Recommendations on interagency gov-
ernance.
(3) PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Chairman of the Council, in
coordination with the members of the Coun-
cil, shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to imple-
ment the report’s framework and rec-
ommendations submitted under paragraph
(2)(A).
(4) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—Not less
frequently than quarterly, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall make available to the
public a report regarding the status of the
disposition of requests received from depart-
ments and agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment for a change to, or approval under, the
Federal investigative standards, the national
adjudicative guidelines, continuous evalua-
tion, or other national policy regarding per-
sonnel security.
SEC. 603. IMPROVING THE PROCESS FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES.
(a) REVIEWS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that includes the
following:
(1) A review of whether the information re-
quested on the Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (Standard Form 86) and
by the Federal Investigative Standards pre-
scribed by the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment and the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence appropriately supports
the adjudicative guidelines under Security
Executive Agent Directive 4 (known as the
‘‘National Security Adjudicative Guide-
lines’’). Such review shall include identifica-
tion of whether any such information cur-
rently collected is unnecessary to support
the adjudicative guidelines.
(2) An assessment of whether such Ques-
tionnaire, Standards, and guidelines should
be revised to account for the prospect of a
holder of a security clearance becoming an
insider threat.
(3) Recommendations to improve the back-
ground investigation process by—
(A) simplifying the Questionnaire for Na-
tional Security Positions (Standard Form 86)
and increasing customer support to appli-
cants completing such Questionnaire;
(B) using remote techniques and central-
ized locations to support or replace field in-
vestigation work;
(C) using secure and reliable digitization of
information obtained during the clearance
process;
(D) building the capacity of the back-
ground investigation labor sector; and
(E) replacing periodic reinvestigations
with continuous evaluation techniques in all
appropriate circumstances.
(b) POLICY, STRATEGY, AND IMPLEMENTA-
TION.—Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Security
Executive Agent shall, in coordination with
the members of the Council, establish the
following:
(1) A policy and implementation plan for
the issuance of interim security clearances.
(2) A policy and implementation plan to
ensure contractors are treated consistently
in the security clearance process across
agencies and departments of the United
States as compared to employees of such
agencies and departments. Such policy shall
address—
(A) prioritization of processing security
clearances based on the mission the contrac-
tors will be performing;
(B) standardization in the forms that agen-
cies issue to initiate the process for a secu-
rity clearance;
(C) digitization of background investiga-
tion-related forms;
(D) use of the polygraph;
(E) the application of the adjudicative
guidelines under Security Executive Agent
Directive 4 (known as the ‘‘National Secu-
rity Adjudicative Guidelines’’);
(F) reciprocal recognition of clearances
across agencies and departments of the
United States, regardless of status of peri-
odic reinvestigation;
(G) tracking of clearance files as individ-
uals move from employment with an agency
or department of the United States to em-
ployment in the private sector;
(H) collection of timelines for movement of
contractors across agencies and depart-
ments;
(I) reporting on security incidents and job
performance, consistent with section 552a of
title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Privacy Act of 1974’’), that
may affect the ability to hold a security
clearance;
(J) any recommended changes to the Fed-
eral Acquisition Regulations (FAR) nec-
essary to ensure that information affecting
contractor clearances or suitability is appro-
priately and expeditiously shared between
and among agencies and contractors; and
(K) portability of contractor security
clearances between or among contracts at
the same agency and between or among con-
tracts at different agencies that require the
same level of clearance.
(3) A strategy and implementation plan
that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3740 June 18, 2019
(A) provides for periodic reinvestigations
as part of a security clearance determination
only on an as-needed, risk-based basis;
(B) includes actions to assess the extent to
which automated records checks and other
continuous evaluation methods may be used
to expedite or focus reinvestigations; and
(C) provides an exception for certain popu-
lations if the Security Executive Agent—
(i) determines such populations require re-
investigations at regular intervals; and
(ii) provides written justification to the
appropriate congressional committees for
any such determination.
(4) A policy and implementation plan for
agencies and departments of the United
States, as a part of the security clearance
process, to accept automated records checks
generated pursuant to a security clearance
applicant’s employment with a prior em-
ployer.
(5) A policy for the use of certain back-
ground materials on individuals collected by
the private sector for background investiga-
tion purposes.
(6) Uniform standards for agency contin-
uous evaluation programs to ensure quality
and reciprocity in accepting enrollment in a
continuous vetting program as a substitute
for a periodic investigation for continued ac-
cess to classified information.
SEC. 604. GOALS FOR PROMPTNESS OF DETER-
MINATIONS REGARDING SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) RECIPROCITY DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘reciprocity’’ means reciprocal rec-
ognition by Federal departments and agen-
cies of eligibility for access to classified in-
formation.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Council shall reform
the security clearance process with the ob-
jective that, by December 31, 2021, 90 percent
of all determinations, other than determina-
tions regarding populations identified under
section 603(b)(3)(C), regarding—
(1) security clearances—
(A) at the secret level are issued in 30 days
or fewer; and
(B) at the top secret level are issued in 90
days or fewer; and
(2) reciprocity of security clearances at the
same level are recognized in 2 weeks or
fewer.
(c) CERTAIN REINVESTIGATIONS.—The Coun-
cil shall reform the security clearance proc-
ess with the goal that by December 31, 2021,
reinvestigation on a set periodicity is not re-
quired for more than 10 percent of the popu-
lation that holds a security clearance.
(d) EQUIVALENT METRICS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Council develops a
set of performance metrics that it certifies
to the appropriate congressional committees
should achieve substantially equivalent out-
comes as those outlined in subsections (b)
and (c), the Council may use those metrics
for purposes of compliance within this provi-
sion.
(2) NOTICE.—If the Council uses the author-
ity provided by paragraph (1) to use metrics
as described in such paragraph, the Council
shall, not later than 30 days after commu-
nicating such metrics to departments and
agencies, notify the appropriate congres-
sional committees that it is using such au-
thority.
(e) PLAN.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to carry
out this section. Such plan shall include rec-
ommended interim milestones for the goals
set forth in subsections (b) and (c) for 2019,
2020, and 2021.
SEC. 605. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VIII of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 803 and 804 as
sections 804 and 805, respectively; and
(2) by inserting after section 802 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 803. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, or such other officer of the
United States as the President may des-
ignate, shall serve as the Security Executive
Agent for all departments and agencies of
the United States.
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The duties of the Security
Executive Agent are as follows:
‘‘(1) To direct the oversight of investiga-
tions, reinvestigations, adjudications, and,
as applicable, polygraphs for eligibility for
access to classified information or eligibility
to hold a sensitive position made by any
Federal agency.
‘‘(2) To review the national security back-
ground investigation and adjudication pro-
grams of Federal agencies to determine
whether such programs are being imple-
mented in accordance with this section.
‘‘(3) To develop and issue uniform and con-
sistent policies and procedures to ensure the
effective, efficient, timely, and secure com-
pletion of investigations, polygraphs, and ad-
judications relating to determinations of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position.
‘‘(4) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to conduct inves-
tigations of persons who are proposed for ac-
cess to classified information or for eligi-
bility to hold a sensitive position to ascer-
tain whether such persons satisfy the cri-
teria for obtaining and retaining access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, as applicable.
‘‘(5) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to determine eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position in
accordance with Executive Order 12968 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to access to classi-
fied information).
‘‘(6) To ensure reciprocal recognition of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position
among Federal agencies, including acting as
the final authority to arbitrate and resolve
disputes among such agencies involving the
reciprocity of investigations and adjudica-
tions of eligibility.
‘‘(7) To execute all other duties assigned to
the Security Executive Agent by law.
‘‘(c) AUTHORITIES.—The Security Executive
Agent shall—
‘‘(1) issue guidelines and instructions to
the heads of Federal agencies to ensure ap-
propriate uniformity, centralization, effi-
ciency, effectiveness, timeliness, and secu-
rity in processes relating to determinations
by such agencies of eligibility for access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, including such matters as
investigations, polygraphs, adjudications,
and reciprocity;
‘‘(2) have the authority to grant exceptions
to, or waivers of, national security investiga-
tive requirements, including issuing imple-
menting or clarifying guidance, as necessary;
‘‘(3) have the authority to assign, in whole
or in part, to the head of any Federal agency
(solely or jointly) any of the duties of the Se-
curity Executive Agent described in sub-
section (b) or the authorities described in
paragraphs (1) and (2), provided that the ex-
ercise of such assigned duties or authorities
is subject to the oversight of the Security
Executive Agent, including such terms and
conditions (including approval by the Secu-
rity Executive Agent) as the Security Execu-
tive Agent determines appropriate; and
‘‘(4) define and set standards for contin-
uous evaluation for continued access to clas-
sified information and for eligibility to hold
a sensitive position.’’.
(b) REPORT ON RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RE-
VISING AUTHORITIES.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Chairman of the
Council submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees the report required by
section 602(b)(2)(A), the Chairman shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees such recommendations as the Chair-
man may have for revising the authorities of
the Security Executive Agent.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
103H(j)(4)(A) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
3033(j)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘in sec-
tion 804’’ and inserting ‘‘in section 805’’.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
such Act (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by strik-
ing the items relating to sections 803 and 804
and inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 803. Security Executive Agent.
‘‘Sec. 804. Exceptions.
‘‘Sec. 805. Definitions.’’.
SEC. 606. REPORT ON UNIFIED, SIMPLIFIED, GOV-
ERNMENTWIDE STANDARDS FOR PO-
SITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Security Execu-
tive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent, in coordina-
tion with the other members of the Council,
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a report re-
garding the advisability and the risks, bene-
fits, and costs to the Government and to in-
dustry of consolidating to not more than 3
tiers for positions of trust and security
clearances.
SEC. 607. REPORT ON CLEARANCE IN PERSON
CONCEPT.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that to reflect the greater mobility
of the modern workforce, alternative meth-
odologies merit analysis to allow greater
flexibility for individuals moving in and out
of positions that require access to classified
information, while still preserving security.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that describes the
requirements, feasibility, and advisability of
implementing a clearance in person concept
described in subsection (c).
(c) CLEARANCE IN PERSON CONCEPT.—The
clearance in person concept—
(1) permits an individual who once held a
security clearance to maintain his or her eli-
gibility for access to classified information,
networks, and facilities for up to 3 years
after the individual’s eligibility for access to
classified information would otherwise lapse;
and
(2) recognizes, unless otherwise directed by
the Security Executive Agent, an individ-
ual’s security clearance and background in-
vestigation as current, regardless of employ-
ment status, contingent on enrollment in a
continuous vetting program.
(d) CONTENTS.—The report required under
subsection (b) shall address—
(1) requirements for an individual to volun-
tarily remain in a continuous evaluation
program validated by the Security Executive
Agent even if the individual is not in a posi-
tion requiring access to classified informa-
tion;
(2) appropriate safeguards for privacy;
(3) advantages to government and indus-
try;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3741
June 18, 2019
(4) the costs and savings associated with
implementation;
(5) the risks of such implementation, in-
cluding security and counterintelligence
risks;
(6) an appropriate funding model; and
(7) fairness to small companies and inde-
pendent contractors.
SEC. 608. BUDGET REQUEST DOCUMENTATION
ON FUNDING FOR BACKGROUND IN-
VESTIGATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—As part of the fiscal year
2020 budget request submitted to Congress
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United
States Code, the President shall include ex-
hibits that identify the resources expended
by each agency during the prior fiscal year
for processing background investigations and
continuous evaluation programs,
disaggregated by tier and whether the indi-
vidual was a Government employee or con-
tractor.
(b) CONTENTS.—Each exhibit submitted
under subsection (a) shall include details
on—
(1) the costs of background investigations
or reinvestigations;
(2) the costs associated with background
investigations for Government or contract
personnel;
(3) costs associated with continuous eval-
uation initiatives monitoring for each person
for whom a background investigation or re-
investigation was conducted, other than
costs associated with adjudication;
(4) the average per person cost for each
type of background investigation; and
(5) a summary of transfers and
reprogrammings that were executed in the
previous year to support the processing of se-
curity clearances.
SEC. 609. REPORTS ON RECIPROCITY FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES INSIDE OF DE-
PARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.
(a) RECIPROCALLY RECOGNIZED DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘reciprocally recog-
nized’’ means reciprocal recognition by Fed-
eral departments and agencies of eligibility
for access to classified information.
(b) REPORTS TO SECURITY EXECUTIVE
AGENT.—The head of each Federal depart-
ment or agency shall submit an annual re-
port to the Security Executive Agent that—
(1) identifies the number of individuals
whose security clearances take more than 2
weeks to be reciprocally recognized after
such individuals move to another part of
such department or agency; and
(2) breaks out the information described in
paragraph (1) by type of clearance and the
reasons for any delays.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not less frequently
than once each year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
industry partners an annual report that sum-
marizes the information received pursuant
to subsection (b) during the period covered
by such report.
SEC. 610. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS
ON SECURITY CLEARANCES.
Section 506H of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3104) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by adding
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a period; and
(C) by striking subparagraph (C);
(2) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c);
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS.—
(1)(A) Not later than March 1 of each year,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit a report to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate, the Committee on Home-
land Security of the House of Representa-
tives, and the Committee on Oversight and
Reform of the House of Representatives re-
garding the security clearances processed by
each element of the intelligence community
during the preceding fiscal year.
‘‘(B) The Director shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives such portions of
the report submitted under subparagraph (A)
as the Director determines address elements
of the intelligence community that are with-
in the Department of Defense.
‘‘(C) Each report submitted under this
paragraph shall separately identify security
clearances processed for Federal employees
and contractor employees sponsored by each
such element.
‘‘(2) Each report submitted under para-
graph (1)(A) shall include, for each element
of the intelligence community for the fiscal
year covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(A) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations spon-
sored for new applicants.
‘‘(B) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic reinvestigations sponsored for
existing employees.
‘‘(C) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations for new
applicants that were adjudicated with notice
of a determination provided to the prospec-
tive applicant, including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably and granted
access to classified information; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(D) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic background investigations
that were adjudicated with notice of a deter-
mination provided to the existing employee,
including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(E) The total number of pending security
clearance background investigations, includ-
ing initial applicant investigations and peri-
odic reinvestigations, that were not adju-
dicated as of the last day of such year and
that remained pending, categorized as fol-
lows:
‘‘(i) For 180 days or shorter.
‘‘(ii) For longer than 180 days, but shorter
than 12 months.
‘‘(iii) For 12 months or longer, but shorter
than 18 months.
‘‘(iv) For 18 months or longer, but shorter
than 24 months.
‘‘(v) For 24 months or longer.
‘‘(F) For any security clearance determina-
tions completed or pending during the year
preceding the year for which the report is
submitted that have taken longer than 12
months to complete—
‘‘(i) an explanation of the causes for the
delays incurred during the period covered by
the report; and
‘‘(ii) the number of such delays involving a
polygraph requirement.
‘‘(G) The percentage of security clearance
investigations, including initial and periodic
reinvestigations, that resulted in a denial or
revocation of a security clearance.
‘‘(H) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that resulted in incomplete
information.
‘‘(I) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that did not result in enough
information to make a decision on poten-
tially adverse information.
‘‘(3) The report required under this sub-
section shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.’’;
and
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by
striking ‘‘subsection (a)(1)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsections (a)(1) and (b)’’.
SEC. 611. PERIODIC REPORT ON POSITIONS IN
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
THAT CAN BE CONDUCTED WITHOUT
ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION, NETWORKS, OR FACILITIES.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act and not less fre-
quently than once every 5 years thereafter,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report that reviews the intel-
ligence community for which positions can
be conducted without access to classified in-
formation, networks, or facilities, or may
only require a security clearance at the se-
cret level.
SEC. 612. INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM FOR
POSITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall establish and implement a program to
share between and among agencies of the
Federal Government and industry partners
of the Federal Government relevant back-
ground information regarding individuals ap-
plying for and currently occupying national
security positions and positions of trust, in
order to ensure the Federal Government
maintains a trusted workforce.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The program established
under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
‘‘Trusted Information Provider Program’’ (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Program’’).
(b) PRIVACY SAFEGUARDS.—The Security
Executive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent shall ensure
that the Program includes such safeguards
for privacy as the Security Executive Agent
and the Suitability and Credentialing Execu-
tive Agent consider appropriate.
(c) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO THE FED-
ERAL GOVERNMENT.—The Program shall in-
clude requirements that enable investigative
service providers and agencies of the Federal
Government to leverage certain pre-employ-
ment information gathered during the em-
ployment or military recruiting process, and
other relevant security or human resources
information obtained during employment
with or for the Federal Government, that
satisfy Federal investigative standards,
while safeguarding personnel privacy.
(d) INFORMATION AND RECORDS.—The infor-
mation and records considered under the
Program shall include the following:
(1) Date and place of birth.
(2) Citizenship or immigration and natu-
ralization information.
(3) Education records.
(4) Employment records.
(5) Employment or social references.
(6) Military service records.
(7) State and local law enforcement
checks.
(8) Criminal history checks.
(9) Financial records or information.
(10) Foreign travel, relatives, or associa-
tions.
(11) Social media checks.
(12) Such other information or records as
may be relevant to obtaining or maintaining
national security, suitability, fitness, or
credentialing eligibility.
(e) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3742 June 18, 2019
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of the Program.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the Pro-
gram.
(f) PLAN FOR PILOT PROGRAM ON TWO-WAY
INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of a pilot program to assess
the feasibility and advisability of expanding
the Program to include the sharing of infor-
mation held by the Federal Government re-
lated to contract personnel with the security
office of the employers of those contractor
personnel.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the pilot
program.
(g) REVIEW.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a review of the
plans submitted under subsections (e)(1) and
(f)(1) and utility and effectiveness of the pro-
grams described in such plans.
SEC. 613. REPORT ON PROTECTIONS FOR CON-
FIDENTIALITY OF WHISTLEBLOWER-
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall, in coordination with the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity, submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report detailing the
controls employed by the intelligence com-
munity to ensure that continuous vetting
programs, including those involving user ac-
tivity monitoring, protect the confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related communica-
tions.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
SEC. 701. LIMITATION RELATING TO ESTABLISH-
MENT OR SUPPORT OF CYBERSECU-
RITY UNIT WITH THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(b) LIMITATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No amount may be ex-
pended by the Federal Government, other
than the Department of Defense, to enter
into or implement any bilateral agreement
between the United States and the Russian
Federation regarding cybersecurity, includ-
ing the establishment or support of any cy-
bersecurity unit, unless, at least 30 days
prior to the conclusion of any such agree-
ment, the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on such agreement that
includes the elements required by subsection
(c).
(2) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AGREEMENTS.—
Any agreement between the Department of
Defense and the Russian Federation regard-
ing cybersecurity shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 1232 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 114–328), as amended by sec-
tion 1231 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91).
(c) ELEMENTS.—If the Director submits a
report under subsection (b) with respect to
an agreement, such report shall include a de-
scription of each of the following:
(1) The purpose of the agreement.
(2) The nature of any intelligence to be
shared pursuant to the agreement.
(3) The expected value to national security
resulting from the implementation of the
agreement.
(4) Such counterintelligence concerns asso-
ciated with the agreement as the Director
may have and such measures as the Director
expects to be taken to mitigate such con-
cerns.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This section
shall not be construed to affect any existing
authority of the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, or another head of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community, to
share or receive foreign intelligence on a
case-by-case basis.
SEC. 702. REPORT ON RETURNING RUSSIAN COM-
POUNDS.
(a) COVERED COMPOUNDS DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘covered compounds’’
means the real property in New York, the
real property in Maryland, and the real prop-
erty in San Francisco, California, that were
under the control of the Government of Rus-
sia in 2016 and were removed from such con-
trol in response to various transgressions by
the Government of Russia, including the in-
terference by the Government of Russia in
the 2016 election in the United States.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees, and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
of Representatives (only with respect to the
unclassified report), a report on the intel-
ligence risks of returning the covered com-
pounds to Russian control.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by this section shall be submitted in classi-
fied and unclassified forms.
SEC. 703. ASSESSMENT OF THREAT FINANCE RE-
LATING TO RUSSIA.
(a) THREAT FINANCE DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘threat finance’’ means—
(1) the financing of cyber operations, glob-
al influence campaigns, intelligence service
activities, proliferation, terrorism, or
transnational crime and drug organizations;
(2) the methods and entities used to spend,
store, move, raise, conceal, or launder money
or value, on behalf of threat actors;
(3) sanctions evasion; and
(4) other forms of threat finance activity
domestically or internationally, as defined
by the President.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis,
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report containing an
assessment of Russian threat finance. The
assessment shall be based on intelligence
from all sources, including from the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence of the
Department of the Treasury.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) A summary of leading examples from
the 3-year period preceding the date of the
submittal of the report of threat finance ac-
tivities conducted by, for the benefit of, or at
the behest of—
(A) officials of the Government of Russia;
(B) persons subject to sanctions under any
provision of law imposing sanctions with re-
spect to Russia;
(C) Russian nationals subject to sanctions
under any other provision of law; or
(D) Russian oligarchs or organized crimi-
nals.
(2) An assessment with respect to any
trends or patterns in threat finance activi-
ties relating to Russia, including common
methods of conducting such activities and
global nodes of money laundering used by
Russian threat actors described in paragraph
(1) and associated entities.
(3) An assessment of any connections be-
tween Russian individuals involved in money
laundering and the Government of Russia.
(4) A summary of engagement and coordi-
nation with international partners on threat
finance relating to Russia, especially in Eu-
rope, including examples of such engagement
and coordination.
(5) An identification of any resource and
collection gaps.
(6) An identification of—
(A) entry points of money laundering by
Russian and associated entities into the
United States;
(B) any vulnerabilities within the United
States legal and financial system, including
specific sectors, which have been or could be
exploited in connection with Russian threat
finance activities; and
(C) the counterintelligence threat posed by
Russian money laundering and other forms
of threat finance, as well as the threat to the
United States financial system and United
States efforts to enforce sanctions and com-
bat organized crime.
(7) Any other matters the Director deter-
mines appropriate.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) may be submitted in
classified form.
SEC. 704. NOTIFICATION OF AN ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGN.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3743
June 18, 2019
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR NOTIFICATION.—The
Director of National Intelligence, in coopera-
tion with the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the head of any other
relevant agency, shall notify the congres-
sional leadership and the Chairman and Vice
Chairman or Ranking Member of each of the
appropriate congressional committees, and
of other relevant committees of jurisdiction,
each time the Director of National Intel-
ligence determines there is credible informa-
tion that a foreign power has, is, or will at-
tempt to employ a covert influence or active
measures campaign with regard to the mod-
ernization, employment, doctrine, or force
posture of the nuclear deterrent or missile
defense.
(c) CONTENT OF NOTIFICATION.—Each notifi-
cation required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude information concerning actions taken
by the United States to expose or halt an at-
tempt referred to in subsection (b).
SEC. 705. NOTIFICATION OF TRAVEL BY ACCRED-
ITED DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR
PERSONNEL OF THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION IN THE UNITED STATES.
In carrying out the advance notification
requirements set out in section 502 of the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (division N of Public Law 115–31; 131
Stat. 825; 22 U.S.C. 254a note), the Secretary
of State shall—
(1) ensure that the Russian Federation pro-
vides notification to the Secretary of State
at least 2 business days in advance of all
travel that is subject to such requirements
by accredited diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federation in the
United States, and take necessary action to
secure full compliance by Russian personnel
and address any noncompliance; and
(2) provide notice of travel described in
paragraph (1) to the Director of National In-
telligence and the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation within 1 hour of re-
ceiving notice of such travel.
SEC. 706. REPORT ON OUTREACH STRATEGY AD-
DRESSING THREATS FROM UNITED
STATES ADVERSARIES TO THE
UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGY SEC-
TOR.
(a) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(3) the Committee on Armed Services,
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Reform of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report detailing outreach by
the intelligence community and the Defense
Intelligence Enterprise to United States in-
dustrial, commercial, scientific, technical,
and academic communities on matters relat-
ing to the efforts of adversaries of the United
States to acquire critical United States
technology, intellectual property, and re-
search and development information.
(c) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A review of the current outreach efforts
of the intelligence community and the De-
fense Intelligence Enterprise described in
subsection (b), including the type of informa-
tion conveyed in the outreach.
(2) A determination of the appropriate ele-
ment of the intelligence community to lead
such outreach efforts.
(3) An assessment of potential methods for
improving the effectiveness of such out-
reach, including an assessment of the fol-
lowing:
(A) Those critical technologies, infrastruc-
ture, or related supply chains that are at
risk from the efforts of adversaries described
in subsection (b).
(B) The necessity and advisability of grant-
ing security clearances to company or com-
munity leadership, when necessary and ap-
propriate, to allow for tailored classified
briefings on specific targeted threats.
(C) The advisability of partnering with en-
tities of the Federal Government that are
not elements of the intelligence community
and relevant regulatory and industry groups
described in subsection (b), to convey key
messages across sectors targeted by United
States adversaries.
(D) Strategies to assist affected elements
of the communities described in subpara-
graph (C) in mitigating, deterring, and pro-
tecting against the broad range of threats
from the efforts of adversaries described in
subsection (b), with focus on producing infor-
mation that enables private entities to jus-
tify business decisions related to national se-
curity concerns.
(E) The advisability of the establishment
of a United States Government-wide task
force to coordinate outreach and activities
to combat the threats from efforts of adver-
saries described in subsection (b).
(F) Such other matters as the Director of
National Intelligence may consider nec-
essary.
(d) CONSULTATION ENCOURAGED.—In pre-
paring the report required by subsection (b),
the Director is encouraged to consult with
other government agencies, think tanks,
academia, representatives of the financial
industry, or such other entities as the Direc-
tor considers appropriate.
(e) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex as
necessary.
SEC. 707. REPORT ON IRANIAN SUPPORT OF
PROXY FORCES IN SYRIA AND LEB-
ANON.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
(2) ARMS OR RELATED MATERIAL.—The term
‘‘arms or related material’’ means—
(A) nuclear, biological, chemical, or radio-
logical weapons or materials or components
of such weapons;
(B) ballistic or cruise missile weapons or
materials or components of such weapons;
(C) destabilizing numbers and types of ad-
vanced conventional weapons;
(D) defense articles or defense services, as
those terms are defined in paragraphs (3) and
(4), respectively, of section 47 of the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794);
(E) defense information, as that term is de-
fined in section 644 of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403); or
(F) items designated by the President for
purposes of the United States Munitions List
under section 38(a)(1) of the Arms Export
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on Iranian support of
proxy forces in Syria and Lebanon and the
threat posed to Israel, other United States
regional allies, and other specified interests
of the United States as a result of such sup-
port.
(c) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The report
required under subsection (b) shall include
information relating to the following mat-
ters with respect to both the strategic and
tactical implications for the United States
and its allies:
(1) A description of arms or related mate-
riel transferred by Iran to Hizballah since
March 2011, including the number of such
arms or related materiel and whether such
transfer was by land, sea, or air, as well as fi-
nancial and additional technological capa-
bilities transferred by Iran to Hizballah.
(2) A description of Iranian and Iranian-
controlled personnel, including Hizballah,
Shiite militias, and Iran’s Revolutionary
Guard Corps forces, operating within Syria,
including the number and geographic dis-
tribution of such personnel operating within
30 kilometers of the Israeli borders with
Syria and Lebanon.
(3) An assessment of Hizballah’s oper-
ational lessons learned based on its recent
experiences in Syria.
(4) A description of any rocket-producing
facilities in Lebanon for nonstate actors, in-
cluding whether such facilities were assessed
to be built at the direction of Hizballah lead-
ership, Iranian leadership, or in consultation
between Iranian leadership and Hizballah
leadership.
(5) An analysis of the foreign and domestic
supply chains that significantly facilitate,
support, or otherwise aid Hizballah’s acquisi-
tion or development of missile production fa-
cilities, including the geographic distribu-
tion of such foreign and domestic supply
chains.
(6) An assessment of the provision of goods,
services, or technology transferred by Iran
or its affiliates to Hizballah to indigenously
manufacture or otherwise produce missiles.
(7) An identification of foreign persons
that are based on credible information, fa-
cilitating the transfer of significant finan-
cial support or arms or related materiel to
Hizballah.
(8) A description of the threat posed to
Israel and other United States allies in the
Middle East by the transfer of arms or re-
lated material or other support offered to
Hizballah and other proxies from Iran.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) shall be submitted in
unclassified form, but may include a classi-
fied annex.
SEC. 708. ANNUAL REPORT ON IRANIAN EXPENDI-
TURES SUPPORTING FOREIGN MILI-
TARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to Congress
a report describing Iranian expenditures in
the previous calendar year on military and
terrorist activities outside the country, in-
cluding each of the following:
(1) The amount spent in such calendar year
on activities by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, including activities providing
support for—
(A) Hizballah;
(B) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
(C) Hamas;
(D) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3744 June 18, 2019
(E) any other entity or country the Direc-
tor determines to be relevant.
(2) The amount spent in such calendar year
for ballistic missile research and testing or
other activities that the Director determines
are destabilizing to the Middle East region.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 709. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF COMMITTEE
TO COUNTER ACTIVE MEASURES
AND REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT
OF FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE
CENTER.
(a) SCOPE OF COMMITTEE TO COUNTER AC-
TIVE MEASURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 501 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 115–31; 50 U.S.C. 3001 note) is
amended—
(A) in subsections (a) through (h)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, the People’s Republic of
China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or
other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russian Federa-
tion’’ each place it appears; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, China, Iran, North
Korea, or other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russia’’
each place it appears; and
(B) in the section heading, by inserting ‘‘,
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, THE ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF IRAN, THE DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S
REPUBLIC OF KOREA, OR OTHER NATION STATE’’
after ‘‘RUSSIAN FEDERATION’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of such Act is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 501 and inserting the following new
item:
‘‘Sec. 501. Committee to counter active
measures by the Russian Fed-
eration, the People’s Republic
of China, the Islamic Republic
of Iran, the Democratic Peo-
ple’s Republic of Korea, and
other nation states to exert
covert influence over peoples
and governments.’’.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with such elements of the intel-
ligence community as the Director considers
relevant, shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the fea-
sibility and advisability of establishing a
center, to be known as the ‘‘Foreign Malign
Influence Response Center’’, that—
(A) is comprised of analysts from all appro-
priate elements of the intelligence commu-
nity, including elements with related diplo-
matic and law enforcement functions;
(B) has access to all intelligence and other
reporting acquired by the United States Gov-
ernment on foreign efforts to influence,
through overt and covert malign activities,
United States political processes and elec-
tions;
(C) provides comprehensive assessment,
and indications and warning, of such activi-
ties; and
(D) provides for enhanced dissemination of
such assessment to United States policy
makers.
(2) CONTENTS.—The Report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A discussion of the desirability of the
establishment of such center and any bar-
riers to such establishment.
(B) Such recommendations and other mat-
ters as the Director considers appropriate.
Subtitle B—Reports
SEC. 711. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO INSPEC-
TOR GENERAL STUDY.
Section 11001(d) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘AUDIT’’ and inserting ‘‘REVIEW’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’.
SEC. 712. REPORTS ON AUTHORITIES OF THE
CHIEF INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) HOMELAND SECURITY INTELLIGENCE EN-
TERPRISE.—The term ‘‘Homeland Security
Intelligence Enterprise’’ has the meaning
given such term in Department of Homeland
Security Instruction Number 264–01–001, or
successor authority.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis, shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the au-
thorities of the Under Secretary.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) An analysis of whether the Under Sec-
retary has the legal and policy authority
necessary to organize and lead the Homeland
Security Intelligence Enterprise, with re-
spect to intelligence, and, if not, a descrip-
tion of—
(A) the obstacles to exercising the authori-
ties of the Chief Intelligence Officer of the
Department and the Homeland Security In-
telligence Council, of which the Chief Intel-
ligence Officer is the chair; and
(B) the legal and policy changes necessary
to effectively coordinate, organize, and lead
intelligence activities of the Department of
Homeland Security.
(2) A description of the actions that the
Secretary has taken to address the inability
of the Under Secretary to require compo-
nents of the Department, other than the Of-
fice of Intelligence and Analysis of the De-
partment to—
(A) coordinate intelligence programs; and
(B) integrate and standardize intelligence
products produced by such other compo-
nents.
SEC. 713. REPORT ON CYBER EXCHANGE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a report on the potential establish-
ment of a fully voluntary exchange program
between elements of the intelligence commu-
nity and private technology companies under
which—
(1) an employee of an element of the intel-
ligence community with demonstrated ex-
pertise and work experience in cybersecurity
or related disciplines may elect to be tempo-
rarily detailed to a private technology com-
pany that has elected to receive the detailee;
and
(2) an employee of a private technology
company with demonstrated expertise and
work experience in cybersecurity or related
disciplines may elect to be temporarily de-
tailed to an element of the intelligence com-
munity that has elected to receive the
detailee.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the feasibility of es-
tablishing the exchange program described
in such subsection.
(2) Identification of any challenges in es-
tablishing the exchange program.
(3) An evaluation of the benefits to the in-
telligence community that would result
from the exchange program.
SEC. 714. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.
(a) REVIEW OF WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.—
The Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community, in consultation with the inspec-
tors general for the Central Intelligence
Agency, the National Security Agency, the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the
Defense Intelligence Agency, and the Na-
tional Reconnaissance Office, shall conduct a
review of the authorities, policies, investiga-
tory standards, and other practices and pro-
cedures relating to intelligence community
whistleblower matters, with respect to such
inspectors general.
(b) OBJECTIVE OF REVIEW.—The objective of
the review required under subsection (a) is to
identify any discrepancies, inconsistencies,
or other issues, which frustrate the timely
and effective reporting of intelligence com-
munity whistleblower matters to appro-
priate inspectors general and to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, and the fair
and expeditious investigation and resolution
of such matters.
(c) CONDUCT OF REVIEW.—The Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community shall
take such measures as the Inspector General
determines necessary in order to ensure that
the review required by subsection (a) is con-
ducted in an independent and objective fash-
ion.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a written report con-
taining the results of the review required
under subsection (a), along with rec-
ommendations to improve the timely and ef-
fective reporting of intelligence community
whistleblower matters to inspectors general
and to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees and the fair and expeditious inves-
tigation and resolution of such matters.
SEC. 715. REPORT ON ROLE OF DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE WITH RE-
SPECT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENTS.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community determined ap-
propriate by the Director, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the role of the Director in pre-
paring analytic materials in connection with
the evaluation by the Federal Government of
national security risks associated with po-
tential foreign investments into the United
States.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of the current process for
the provision of the analytic materials de-
scribed in subsection (a);
(2) an identification of the most significant
benefits and drawbacks of such process with
respect to the role of the Director, including
the sufficiency of resources and personnel to
prepare such materials; and
(3) recommendations to improve such proc-
ess.
SEC. 716. REPORT ON SURVEILLANCE BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS NETWORKS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3745
June 18, 2019
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, the Director of the Na-
tional Security Agency, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
report describing—
(1) any attempts known to the intelligence
community by foreign governments to ex-
ploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities in United
States telecommunications networks (in-
cluding Signaling System No. 7) to target for
surveillance United States persons, includ-
ing employees of the Federal Government;
and
(2) any actions, as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, taken by the intelligence
community to protect agencies and per-
sonnel of the United States Government
from surveillance conducted by foreign gov-
ernments.
SEC. 717. BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENT RISKS.
(a) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INTERAGENCY
WORKING GROUP.—
(1) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall establish
an intelligence community interagency
working group to prepare the biennial re-
ports required by subsection (b).
(2) CHAIRPERSON.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall serve as the chairperson of
such interagency working group.
(3) MEMBERSHIP.—Such interagency work-
ing group shall be composed of representa-
tives of each element of the intelligence
community that the Director of National In-
telligence determines appropriate.
(b) BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN INVEST-
MENT RISKS.—
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
2 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives a report on foreign invest-
ment risks prepared by the interagency
working group established under subsection
(a).
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include identification,
analysis, and explanation of the following:
(A) Any current or projected major threats
to the national security of the United States
with respect to foreign investment.
(B) Any strategy used by a foreign country
that such interagency working group has
identified to be a country of special concern
to use foreign investment to target the ac-
quisition of critical technologies, critical
materials, or critical infrastructure.
(C) Any economic espionage efforts di-
rected at the United States by a foreign
country, particularly such a country of spe-
cial concern.
SEC. 718. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORT-
ING REQUIREMENT ON TRAVEL OF
FOREIGN DIPLOMATS.
Section 502(d)(2) of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 115–31) is amended by striking ‘‘the
number’’ and inserting ‘‘a best estimate’’.
SEC. 719. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGA-
TIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DISCLO-
SURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title XI of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 1105. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVES-
TIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DIS-
CLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFOR-
MATION.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED OFFICIAL.—The term ‘covered
official’ means—
‘‘(A) the heads of each element of the intel-
ligence community; and
‘‘(B) the inspectors general with oversight
responsibility for an element of the intel-
ligence community.
‘‘(2) INVESTIGATION.—The term ‘investiga-
tion’ means any inquiry, whether formal or
informal, into the existence of an unauthor-
ized public disclosure of classified informa-
tion.
‘‘(3) UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF CLASSI-
FIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unauthorized
disclosure of classified information’ means
any unauthorized disclosure of classified in-
formation to any recipient.
‘‘(4) UNAUTHORIZED PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation’ means the unauthorized disclosure
of classified information to a journalist or
media organization.
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT-
ING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, each covered official
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on investiga-
tions of unauthorized public disclosures of
classified information.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, with re-
spect to the preceding 6-month period, the
following:
‘‘(A) The number of investigations opened
by the covered official regarding an unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation.
‘‘(B) The number of investigations com-
pleted by the covered official regarding an
unauthorized public disclosure of classified
information.
‘‘(C) Of the number of such completed in-
vestigations identified under subparagraph
(B), the number referred to the Attorney
General for criminal investigation.
‘‘(c) DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REPORTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, the Assistant Attorney
General for National Security of the Depart-
ment of Justice, in consultation with the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on the
Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee
on the Judiciary of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the status of each referral
made to the Department of Justice from any
element of the intelligence community re-
garding an unauthorized disclosure of classi-
fied information made during the most re-
cent 365-day period or any referral that has
not yet been closed, regardless of the date
the referral was made.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, for each
referral covered by the report, at a min-
imum, the following:
‘‘(A) The date the referral was received.
‘‘(B) A statement indicating whether the
alleged unauthorized disclosure described in
the referral was substantiated by the Depart-
ment of Justice.
‘‘(C) A statement indicating the highest
level of classification of the information
that was revealed in the unauthorized disclo-
sure.
‘‘(D) A statement indicating whether an
open criminal investigation related to the
referral is active.
‘‘(E) A statement indicating whether any
criminal charges have been filed related to
the referral.
‘‘(F) A statement indicating whether the
Department of Justice has been able to at-
tribute the unauthorized disclosure to a par-
ticular entity or individual.
‘‘(d) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this section shall be submitted
in unclassified form, but may have a classi-
fied annex.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the first section of the National
Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 1104 the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 1105. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified informa-
tion.’’.
SEC. 720. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF
DESIGNATION OF COVERED INTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER AS PERSONA NON
GRATA.
(a) COVERED INTELLIGENCE OFFICER DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘covered
intelligence officer’’ means—
(1) a United States intelligence officer
serving in a post in a foreign country; or
(2) a known or suspected foreign intel-
ligence officer serving in a United States
post.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS.—Not later
than 72 hours after a covered intelligence of-
ficer is designated as a persona non grata,
the Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees, the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations of the Senate, and the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives a notification of that designation. Each
such notification shall include—
(1) the date of the designation;
(2) the basis for the designation; and
(3) a justification for the expulsion.
SEC. 721. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY PARTICIPATION IN
VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROC-
ESS OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS DOCUMENT.—The term
‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document’’ means the executive branch doc-
ument entitled ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities
Policy and Process’’ dated November 15, 2017.
(2) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROCESS.—
The term ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Process’’
means the interagency review of
vulnerabilities, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document or any successor document.
(3) VULNERABILITY.—The term ‘‘vulner-
ability’’ means a weakness in an information
system or its components (for example, sys-
tem security procedures, hardware design,
and internal controls) that could be ex-
ploited or could affect confidentiality, integ-
rity, or availability of information.
(b) REPORTS ON PROCESS AND CRITERIA
UNDER VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a written report describing—
(A) with respect to each element of the in-
telligence community—
(i) the title of the official or officials re-
sponsible for determining whether, pursuant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3746 June 18, 2019
to criteria contained in the Vulnerabilities
Equities Policy and Process document or any
successor document, a vulnerability must be
submitted for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(ii) the process used by such element to
make such determination; and
(B) the roles or responsibilities of that ele-
ment during a review of a vulnerability sub-
mitted to the Vulnerabilities Equities Proc-
ess.
(2) CHANGES TO PROCESS OR CRITERIA.—Not
later than 30 days after any significant
change is made to the process and criteria
used by any element of the intelligence com-
munity for determining whether to submit a
vulnerability for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process, such ele-
ment shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report describing such
change.
(3) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this subsection shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each calendar year, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a classi-
fied report containing, with respect to the
previous year—
(A) the number of vulnerabilities sub-
mitted for review under the Vulnerabilities
Equities Process;
(B) the number of vulnerabilities described
in subparagraph (A) disclosed to each vendor
responsible for correcting the vulnerability,
or to the public, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(C) the aggregate number, by category, of
the vulnerabilities excluded from review
under the Vulnerabilities Equities Process,
as described in paragraph 5.4 of the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document.
(2) UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an unclassified appendix that con-
tains—
(A) the aggregate number of
vulnerabilities disclosed to vendors or the
public pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equi-
ties Process; and
(B) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities
disclosed to vendors or the public pursuant
to the Vulnerabilities Equities Process
known to have been patched.
(3) NON-DUPLICATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may forgo submission of
an annual report required under this sub-
section for a calendar year, if the Director
notifies the intelligence committees in writ-
ing that, with respect to the same calendar
year, an annual report required by paragraph
4.3 of the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and
Process document already has been sub-
mitted to Congress, and such annual report
contains the information that would other-
wise be required to be included in an annual
report under this subsection.
SEC. 722. INSPECTORS GENERAL REPORTS ON
CLASSIFICATION.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than Oc-
tober 1, 2019, each Inspector General listed in
subsection (b) shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report that
includes, with respect to the department or
agency of the Inspector General, analyses of
the following:
(1) The accuracy of the application of clas-
sification and handling markers on a rep-
resentative sample of finished reports, in-
cluding such reports that are compart-
mented.
(2) Compliance with declassification proce-
dures.
(3) The effectiveness of processes for iden-
tifying topics of public or historical impor-
tance that merit prioritization for a declas-
sification review.
(b) INSPECTORS GENERAL LISTED.—The In-
spectors General listed in this subsection are
as follows:
(1) The Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community.
(2) The Inspector General of the Central In-
telligence Agency.
(3) The Inspector General of the National
Security Agency.
(4) The Inspector General of the Defense
Intelligence Agency.
(5) The Inspector General of the National
Reconnaissance Office.
(6) The Inspector General of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
SEC. 723. REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECU-
RITY AND NATIONAL SECURITY IM-
PLICATIONS AND BRIEFING ON
EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASE
AND PANDEMICS.
(a) REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECURITY
AND NATIONAL SECURITY IMPLICATIONS.—
(1) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
5 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report on
the implications of water insecurity on the
national security interest of the United
States, including consideration of social,
economic, agricultural, and environmental
factors.
(2) ASSESSMENT SCOPE AND FOCUS.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an assessment of water insecurity de-
scribed in such subsection with a global
scope, but focus on areas of the world—
(A) of strategic, economic, or humani-
tarian interest to the United States—
(i) that are, as of the date of the report, at
the greatest risk of instability, conflict,
human insecurity, or mass displacement; or
(ii) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to emerge and become
significant during the 5-year or the 20-year
period beginning on the date of the report;
and
(B) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to imperil the national
security interests of the United States or al-
lies of the United States.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In researching a report
required by paragraph (1), the Director shall
consult with—
(A) such stakeholders within the intel-
ligence community, the Department of De-
fense, and the Department of State as the
Director considers appropriate; and
(B) such additional Federal agencies and
persons in the private sector as the Director
considers appropriate.
(4) FORM.—Each report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(b) BRIEFING ON EMERGING INFECTIOUS DIS-
EASE AND PANDEMICS.—
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives; and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 120 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall pro-
vide to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a briefing on the anticipated geo-
political effects of emerging infectious dis-
ease (including deliberate, accidental, and
naturally occurring infectious disease
threats) and pandemics, and their implica-
tions on the national security of the United
States.
(3) CONTENT.—The briefing under para-
graph (2) shall include an assessment of—
(A) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of emerging
infectious diseases on the United States and
the international political and economic sys-
tem;
(B) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of a major
transnational pandemic on the United States
and the international political and economic
system; and
(C) contributing trends and factors to the
matters assessed under subparagraphs (A)
and (B).
(4) EXAMINATION OF RESPONSE CAPACITY.—In
examining the risks, costs, and impacts of
emerging infectious disease and a possible
transnational pandemic under paragraph (3),
the Director of National Intelligence shall
also examine in the briefing under paragraph
(2) the response capacity within affected
countries and the international system. In
considering response capacity, the Director
shall include—
(A) the ability of affected nations to effec-
tively detect and manage emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic;
(B) the role and capacity of international
organizations and nongovernmental organi-
zations to respond to emerging infectious
disease and a possible pandemic, and their
ability to coordinate with affected and donor
nations; and
(C) the effectiveness of current inter-
national frameworks, agreements, and
health systems to respond to emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic.
(5) FORM.—The briefing under paragraph (2)
may be classified.
SEC. 724. ANNUAL REPORT ON MEMORANDA OF
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN ELE-
MENTS OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY AND OTHER ENTITIES OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT RE-
GARDING SIGNIFICANT OPER-
ATIONAL ACTIVITIES OR POLICY.
Section 311 of the Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (50 U.S.C. 3313)
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Each year, concurrent
with the annual budget request submitted by
the President to Congress under section 1105
of title 31, United States Code, each head of
an element of the intelligence community
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report that lists each
memorandum of understanding or other
agreement regarding significant operational
activities or policy entered into during the
most recently completed fiscal year between
or among such element and any other entity
of the United States Government.
‘‘(b) PROVISION OF DOCUMENTS.—Each head
of an element of an intelligence community
who receives a request from the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate or the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives for a copy of
a memorandum of understanding or other
document listed in a report submitted by the
head under subsection (a) shall submit to
such committee the requested copy as soon
as practicable after receiving such request.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3747
June 18, 2019
SEC. 725. STUDY ON THE FEASIBILITY OF
ENCRYPTING UNCLASSIFIED
WIRELINE AND WIRELESS TELE-
PHONE CALLS.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall complete a study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline and wireless
telephone calls between personnel in the in-
telligence community.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date on which the Director completes the
study required by subsection (a), the Direc-
tor shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the Direc-
tor’s findings with respect to such study.
SEC. 726. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR
ANNUAL REPORT ON HIRING AND
RETENTION OF MINORITY EMPLOY-
EES.
(a) EXPANSION OF PERIOD OF REPORT.—Sub-
section (a) of section 114 of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3050) is amended
by inserting ‘‘and the preceding 5 fiscal
years’’ after ‘‘fiscal year’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION ON DISAGGREGATION OF
DATA.—Subsection (b) of such section is
amended, in the matter before paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘disaggregated data by category
of covered person from each element of the
intelligence community’’ and inserting
‘‘data, disaggregated by category of covered
person and by element of the intelligence
community,’’.
SEC. 727. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY LOAN REPAYMENT AND RE-
LATED PROGRAMS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) there should be established, through the
issuing of an Intelligence Community Direc-
tive or otherwise, an intelligence commu-
nity-wide program for student loan repay-
ment, student loan forgiveness, financial
counseling, and related matters, for employ-
ees of the intelligence community;
(2) creating such a program would enhance
the ability of the elements of the intel-
ligence community to recruit, hire, and re-
tain highly qualified personnel, including
with respect to mission-critical and hard-to-
fill positions;
(3) such a program, including with respect
to eligibility requirements, should be de-
signed so as to maximize the ability of the
elements of the intelligence community to
recruit, hire, and retain highly qualified per-
sonnel, including with respect to mission-
critical and hard-to-fill positions; and
(4) to the extent possible, such a program
should be uniform throughout the intel-
ligence community and publicly promoted
by each element of the intelligence commu-
nity to both current employees of the ele-
ment as well as to prospective employees of
the element.
(b) REPORT ON POTENTIAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY-WIDE PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
operation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community and the heads of
any other appropriate department or agency
of the Federal Government, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on potentially establishing and car-
rying out an intelligence community-wide
program for student loan repayment, student
loan forgiveness, financial counseling, and
related matters, as described in subsection
(a).
(2) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
(A) A description of the financial resources
that the elements of the intelligence com-
munity would require to establish and ini-
tially carry out the program specified in
paragraph (1).
(B) A description of the practical steps to
establish and carry out such a program.
(C) The identification of any legislative ac-
tion the Director determines necessary to es-
tablish and carry out such a program.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ESTABLISHED PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) COVERED PROGRAMS DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘covered programs’’
means any loan repayment program, loan
forgiveness program, financial counseling
program, or similar program, established
pursuant to title X of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) or any
other provision of law that may be adminis-
tered or used by an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(2) ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not less
frequently than once each year, the Director
of National Intelligence shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on the covered programs. Each such re-
port shall include, with respect to the period
covered by the report, the following:
(A) The number of personnel from each ele-
ment of the intelligence community who
used each covered program.
(B) The total amount of funds each ele-
ment expended for each such program.
(C) A description of the efforts made by
each element to promote each covered pro-
gram pursuant to both the personnel of the
element of the intelligence community and
to prospective personnel.
SEC. 728. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.
(a) CORRECTING LONG-STANDING MATERIAL
WEAKNESSES.—Section 368 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub-
lic Law 110–259; 50 U.S.C. 3051 note) is hereby
repealed.
(b) INTERAGENCY THREAT ASSESSMENT AND
COORDINATION GROUP.—Section 210D of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k)
is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (c); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (d)
through (i) as subsections (c) through (h), re-
spectively; and
(3) in subsection (c), as so redesignated—
(A) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a period; and
(B) by striking paragraph (9).
(c) INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.—Section
8H of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (g); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i)
as subsections (g) and (h), respectively.
SEC. 729. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT ON
SENIOR EXECUTIVES OF THE OF-
FICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
(a) SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE POSITION
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Senior
Executive Service position’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 3132(a)(2) of title
5, United States Code, and includes any posi-
tion above the GS–15, step 10, level of the
General Schedule under section 5332 of such
title.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the number
of Senior Executive Service positions in the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
subsection (b) shall include the following:
(1) The number of required Senior Execu-
tive Service positions for the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence.
(2) Whether such requirements are reason-
ably based on the mission of the Office.
(3) A discussion of how the number of the
Senior Executive Service positions in the Of-
fice compare to the number of senior posi-
tions at comparable organizations.
(d) COOPERATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity any information requested by the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity that is necessary to carry out this sec-
tion by not later than 14 calendar days after
the date on which the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community makes such re-
quest.
SEC. 730. BRIEFING ON FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN-
VESTIGATION OFFERING PERMA-
NENT RESIDENCE TO SOURCES AND
COOPERATORS.
Not later than 30 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation shall pro-
vide to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a briefing on the ability of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation to offer, as an
inducement to assisting the Bureau, perma-
nent residence within the United States to
foreign individuals who are sources or co-
operators in counterintelligence or other na-
tional security-related investigations. The
briefing shall address the following:
(1) The extent to which the Bureau may
make such offers, whether independently or
in conjunction with other agencies and de-
partments of the United States Government,
including a discussion of the authorities pro-
vided by section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(S)), section 7 of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Act (50 U.S.C. 3508), and any
other provision of law under which the Bu-
reau may make such offers.
(2) An overview of the policies and oper-
ational practices of the Bureau with respect
to making such offers.
(3) The sufficiency of such policies and
practices with respect to inducing individ-
uals to cooperate with, serve as sources for
such investigations, or both.
(4) Whether the Director recommends any
legislative actions to improve such policies
and practices, particularly with respect to
the counterintelligence efforts of the Bu-
reau.
SEC. 731. INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF NORTH
KOREA REVENUE SOURCES.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Assistant
Secretary of State for Intelligence and Re-
search and the Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis, shall
produce an intelligence assessment of the
revenue sources of the North Korean regime.
Such assessment shall include revenue from
the following sources:
(1) Trade in coal, iron, and iron ore.
(2) The provision of fishing rights to North
Korean territorial waters.
(3) Trade in gold, titanium ore, vanadium
ore, copper, silver, nickel, zinc, or rare earth
minerals, and other stores of value.
(4) Trade in textiles.
(5) Sales of conventional defense articles
and services.
(6) Sales of controlled goods, ballistic mis-
siles, and other associated items.
(7) Other types of manufacturing for ex-
port, as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
(8) The exportation of workers from North
Korea in a manner intended to generate sig-
nificant revenue, directly or indirectly, for
use by the government of North Korea.
(9) The provision of nonhumanitarian
goods (such as food, medicine, and medical
devices) and services by other countries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3748 June 18, 2019
(10) The provision of services, including
banking and other support, including by en-
tities located in the Russian Federation,
China, and Iran.
(11) Online commercial activities of the
Government of North Korea, including on-
line gambling.
(12) Criminal activities, including cyber-
enabled crime and counterfeit goods.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
under subsection (a) shall include an identi-
fication of each of the following:
(1) The sources of North Korea’s funding.
(2) Financial and non-financial networks,
including supply chain management, trans-
portation, and facilitation, through which
North Korea accesses the United States and
international financial systems and repatri-
ates and exports capital, goods, and services;
and
(3) the global financial institutions, money
services business, and payment systems that
assist North Korea with financial trans-
actions.
(c) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Upon com-
pletion of the assessment required under sub-
section (a), the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a copy of such assess-
ment.
SEC. 732. REPORT ON POSSIBLE EXPLOITATION
OF VIRTUAL CURRENCIES BY TER-
RORIST ACTORS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Stop Terrorist Use of Virtual
Currencies Act’’.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, shall submit to Congress a report on the
possible exploitation of virtual currencies by
terrorist actors. Such report shall include
the following elements:
(1) An assessment of the means and meth-
ods by which international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism use
virtual currencies.
(2) An assessment of the use by terrorist
organizations and State sponsors of ter-
rorism of virtual currencies compared to the
use by such organizations and States of
other forms of financing to support oper-
ations, including an assessment of the collec-
tion posture of the intelligence community
on the use of virtual currencies by such orga-
nizations and States.
(3) A description of any existing legal im-
pediments that inhibit or prevent the intel-
ligence community from collecting informa-
tion on or helping prevent the use of virtual
currencies by international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism and
an identification of any gaps in existing law
that could be exploited for illicit funding by
such organizations and States.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (b) shall be submitted in un-
classified form, but may include a classified
annex.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
SEC. 741. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION
BOARD.
Section 710(b) of the Public Interest De-
classification Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–567;
50 U.S.C. 3161 note) is amended by striking
‘‘December 31, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2028’’.
SEC. 742. SECURING ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources of
the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives.
(2) COVERED ENTITY.—The term ‘‘covered
entity’’ means an entity identified pursuant
to section 9(a) of Executive Order 13636 of
February 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 11742), relat-
ing to identification of critical infrastruc-
ture where a cybersecurity incident could
reasonably result in catastrophic regional or
national effects on public health or safety,
economic security, or national security.
(3) EXPLOIT.—The term ‘‘exploit’’ means a
software tool designed to take advantage of
a security vulnerability.
(4) INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEM.—The term
‘‘industrial control system’’ means an oper-
ational technology used to measure, control,
or manage industrial functions, and includes
supervisory control and data acquisition sys-
tems, distributed control systems, and pro-
grammable logic or embedded controllers.
(5) NATIONAL LABORATORY.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Laboratory’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
(6) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the pilot program established under sub-
section (b).
(7) SECRETARY.—Except as otherwise spe-
cifically provided, the term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Energy.
(8) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ means any at-
tribute of hardware, software, process, or
procedure that could enable or facilitate the
defeat of a security control.
(b) PILOT PROGRAM FOR SECURING ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish a 2-year control
systems implementation pilot program with-
in the National Laboratories for the pur-
poses of—
(1) partnering with covered entities in the
energy sector (including critical component
manufacturers in the supply chain) that vol-
untarily participate in the Program to iden-
tify new classes of security vulnerabilities of
the covered entities; and
(2) evaluating technology and standards, in
partnership with covered entities, to isolate
and defend industrial control systems of cov-
ered entities from security vulnerabilities
and exploits in the most critical systems of
the covered entities, including—
(A) analog and nondigital control systems;
(B) purpose-built control systems; and
(C) physical controls.
(c) WORKING GROUP TO EVALUATE PROGRAM
STANDARDS AND DEVELOP STRATEGY.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish a working group—
(A) to evaluate the technology and stand-
ards used in the Program under subsection
(b)(2); and
(B) to develop a national cyber-informed
engineering strategy to isolate and defend
covered entities from security
vulnerabilities and exploits in the most crit-
ical systems of the covered entities.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The working group es-
tablished under paragraph (1) shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 10 members, to be ap-
pointed by the Secretary, at least 1 member
of which shall represent each of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The Department of Energy.
(B) The energy industry, including electric
utilities and manufacturers recommended by
the Energy Sector coordinating councils.
(C)(i) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity; or
(ii) the Industrial Control Systems Cyber
Emergency Response Team.
(D) The North American Electric Reli-
ability Corporation.
(E) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(F)(i) The Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence; or
(ii) the intelligence community (as defined
in section 3 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)).
(G)(i) The Department of Defense; or
(ii) the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Homeland Security and America’s Security
Affairs.
(H) A State or regional energy agency.
(I) A national research body or academic
institution.
(J) The National Laboratories.
(d) REPORTS ON THE PROGRAM.—
(1) INTERIM REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date on which funds are first
disbursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an interim report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 2 years
after the date on which funds are first dis-
bursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a final report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(e) EXEMPTION FROM DISCLOSURE.—Infor-
mation shared by or with the Federal Gov-
ernment or a State, Tribal, or local govern-
ment under this section—
(1) shall be deemed to be voluntarily
shared information;
(2) shall be exempt from disclosure under
section 552 of title 5, United States Code, or
any provision of any State, Tribal, or local
freedom of information law, open govern-
ment law, open meetings law, open records
law, sunshine law, or similar law requiring
the disclosure of information or records; and
(3) shall be withheld from the public, with-
out discretion, under section 552(b)(3) of title
5, United States Code, and any provision of
any State, Tribal, or local law requiring the
disclosure of information or records.
(f) PROTECTION FROM LIABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A cause of action against
a covered entity for engaging in the vol-
untary activities authorized under sub-
section (b)—
(A) shall not lie or be maintained in any
court; and
(B) shall be promptly dismissed by the ap-
plicable court.
(2) VOLUNTARY ACTIVITIES.—Nothing in this
section subjects any covered entity to liabil-
ity for not engaging in the voluntary activi-
ties authorized under subsection (b).
(g) NO NEW REGULATORY AUTHORITY FOR
FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Nothing in this section
authorizes the Secretary or the head of any
other department or agency of the Federal
Government to issue new regulations.
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM.—There is authorized to
be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out sub-
section (b).
(2) WORKING GROUP AND REPORT.—There is
authorized to be appropriated $1,500,000 to
carry out subsections (c) and (d).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall re-
main available until expended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3749
June 18, 2019
SEC. 743. BUG BOUNTY PROGRAMS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(2) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘bug
bounty program’’ means a program under
which an approved computer security spe-
cialist or security researcher is temporarily
authorized to identify and report
vulnerabilities within the information sys-
tem of an agency or department of the
United States in exchange for compensation.
(3) INFORMATION SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘infor-
mation system’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 3502 of title 44, United States
Code.
(b) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM PLAN.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit to appropriate committees of
Congress a strategic plan for appropriate
agencies and departments of the United
States to implement bug bounty programs.
(2) CONTENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment of—
(i) the ‘‘Hack the Pentagon’’ pilot program
carried out by the Department of Defense in
2016 and subsequent bug bounty programs in
identifying and reporting vulnerabilities
within the information systems of the De-
partment of Defense; and
(ii) private sector bug bounty programs, in-
cluding such programs implemented by lead-
ing technology companies in the United
States; and
(B) recommendations on the feasibility of
initiating bug bounty programs at appro-
priate agencies and departments of the
United States.
SEC. 744. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RE-
LATING TO THE NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE UNIVERSITY.
(a) CIVILIAN FACULTY MEMBERS; EMPLOY-
MENT AND COMPENSATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1595(c) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(5) The National Intelligence Univer-
sity.’’.
(2) COMPENSATION PLAN.—The Secretary of
Defense shall provide each person employed
as a full-time professor, instructor, or lec-
turer at the National Intelligence University
on the date of the enactment of this Act an
opportunity to elect to be paid under the
compensation plan in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act
(with no reduction in pay) or under the au-
thority of section 1595 of title 10, United
States Code, as amended by paragraph (1).
(b) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—Section 2161 of such title is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—The Secretary of Defense may au-
thorize the President of the National Intel-
ligence University to accept qualifying re-
search grants in the same manner and to the
same degree as the President of the National
Defense University under section 2165(e) of
this title.’’.
(c) PILOT PROGRAM ON ADMISSION OF PRI-
VATE SECTOR CIVILIANS TO RECEIVE INSTRUC-
TION.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall commence
carrying out a pilot program to assess the
feasability and advisability of permitting el-
igible private sector employees who work in
organizations relevant to national security
to receive instruction at the National Intel-
ligence University.
(B) DURATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the pilot program during the 3-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the commence-
ment of the pilot program.
(C) EXISTING PROGRAM.—The Secretary
shall carry out the pilot program in a man-
ner that is consistent with section 2167 of
title 10, United States Code.
(D) NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS.—No more
than the equivalent of 35 full-time student
positions may be filled at any one time by
private sector employees enrolled under the
pilot program.
(E) DIPLOMAS AND DEGREES.—Upon success-
ful completion of the course of instruction in
which enrolled, any such private sector em-
ployee may be awarded an appropriate di-
ploma or degree under section 2161 of title 10,
United States Code.
(2) ELIGIBLE PRIVATE SECTOR EMPLOYEES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, an eligible private sector employee
is an individual employed by a private firm
that is engaged in providing to the Depart-
ment of Defense, the intelligence commu-
nity, or other Government departments or
agencies significant and substantial intel-
ligence or defense-related systems, products,
or services or whose work product is relevant
to national security policy or strategy.
(B) LIMITATION.—Under this subsection, a
private sector employee admitted for in-
struction at the National Intelligence Uni-
versity remains eligible for such instruction
only so long as that person remains em-
ployed by the same firm, holds appropriate
security clearances, and complies with any
other applicable security protocols.
(3) ANNUAL CERTIFICATION BY SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.—Under the pilot program, private
sector employees may receive instruction at
the National Intelligence University during
any academic year only if, before the start of
that academic year, the Secretary of Defense
determines, and certifies to the Committee
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
Committee on Armed Services of the House
of Representatives, that providing instruc-
tion to private sector employees under this
section during that year will further the na-
tional security interests of the United
States.
(4) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—The
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—
(A) the curriculum in which private sector
employees may be enrolled under the pilot
program is not readily available through
other schools and concentrates on national
security-relevant issues; and
(B) the course offerings at the National In-
telligence University are determined by the
needs of the Department of Defense and the
intelligence community.
(5) TUITION.—The President of the National
Intelligence University shall charge students
enrolled under the pilot program a rate
that—
(A) is at least the rate charged for employ-
ees of the United States outside the Depart-
ment of Defense, less infrastructure costs;
and
(B) considers the value to the school and
course of the private sector student.
(6) STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.—While receiv-
ing instruction at the National Intelligence
University, students enrolled under the pilot
program, to the extent practicable, are sub-
ject to the same regulations governing aca-
demic performance, attendance, norms of be-
havior, and enrollment as apply to Govern-
ment civilian employees receiving instruc-
tion at the university.
(7) USE OF FUNDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts received by the
National Intelligence University for instruc-
tion of students enrolled under the pilot pro-
gram shall be retained by the university to
defray the costs of such instruction.
(B) RECORDS.—The source, and the disposi-
tion, of such funds shall be specifically iden-
tified in records of the university.
(8) REPORTS.—
(A) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Each academic year
in which the pilot program is carried out,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate, and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
number of eligible private sector employees
participating in the pilot program.
(B) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the conclusion of the pilot
program, the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees, the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate,
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
findings of the Secretary with respect to the
pilot program. Such report shall include—
(i) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the feasability and advisability of
permitting eligible private sector employees
who work in organizations relevant to na-
tional security to receive instruction at the
National Intelligence University; and
(ii) a recommendation as to whether the
pilot program should be extended.
SEC. 745. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMEND-
MENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ACT OF 1947.
(a) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents at the beginning of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by inserting after the item relating to
section 2 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 3. Definitions.’’;
(2) by striking the item relating to section
107;
(3) by striking the item relating to section
113B and inserting the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 113B. Special pay authority for
science, technology, engineer-
ing, or mathematics posi-
tions.’’;
(4) by striking the items relating to sec-
tions 202, 203, 204, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213,
and 214; and
(5) by inserting after the item relating to
section 311 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 312. Repealing and saving provisions.’’.
(b) OTHER TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Such
Act is further amended—
(1) in section 102A—
(A) in subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) of
subsection (g), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (3) of subsection (v), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left;
(2) in section 106—
(A) by inserting ‘‘SEC. 106’’ before ‘‘(a)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of
subsection (b), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left;
(3) by striking section 107;
(4) in section 108(c), by striking ‘‘in both a
classified and an unclassified form’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to Congress in classified form, but
may include an unclassified summary’’;
(5) in section 112(c)(1), by striking ‘‘section
103(c)(7)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 102A(i)’’;
(6) by amending section 201 to read as fol-
lows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3750 June 18, 2019
‘‘SEC. 201. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
‘‘Except to the extent inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or other provisions
of law, the provisions of title 5, United
States Code, shall be applicable to the De-
partment of Defense.’’;
(7) in section 205, by redesignating sub-
sections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b),
respectively;
(8) in section 206, by striking ‘‘(a)’’;
(9) in section 207, by striking ‘‘(c)’’;
(10) in section 308(a), by striking ‘‘this
Act’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 2, 101, 102, 103,
and 303 of this Act’’;
(11) by redesignating section 411 as section
312;
(12) in section 503—
(A) in paragraph (5) of subsection (c)—
(i) by moving the margins of such para-
graph 2 ems to the left; and
(ii) by moving the margins of subparagraph
(B) of such paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left; and
(13) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) of section 504, by moving the
margins of such subparagraph 2 ems to the
right.
SEC. 746. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATED TO
THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
(a) NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINIS-
TRATION ACT.—Section 3233(b) of the Na-
tional Nuclear Security Administration Act
(50 U.S.C. 2423(b)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Administration’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Department’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘Intelligence and’’ after
‘‘the Office of’’.
(b) ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.—Section
4524(b)(2) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(50 U.S.C. 2674(b)(2)) is amended by inserting
‘‘Intelligence and’’ after ‘‘The Director of’’.
(c) NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947.—Para-
graph (2) of section 106(b) of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041(b)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ‘‘and
Counterintelligence’’ after ‘‘Office of Intel-
ligence’’;
(2) by striking subparagraph (F);
(3) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H),
and (I) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), re-
spectively; and
(4) in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated,
by realigning the margin of such subpara-
graph 2 ems to the left.
SEC. 747. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NOTIFICATION
OF CERTAIN DISCLOSURES OF CLAS-
SIFIED INFORMATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADVERSARY FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.—The
term ‘‘adversary foreign government’’ means
the government of any of the following for-
eign countries:
(A) North Korea.
(B) Iran.
(C) China.
(D) Russia.
(E) Cuba.
(2) COVERED CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The
term ‘‘covered classified information’’ means
classified information that was—
(A) collected by an element of the intel-
ligence community; or
(B) provided by the intelligence service or
military of a foreign country to an element
of the intelligence community.
(3) ESTABLISHED INTELLIGENCE CHANNELS.—
The term ‘‘established intelligence chan-
nels’’ means methods to exchange intel-
ligence to coordinate foreign intelligence re-
lationships, as established pursuant to law
by the Director of National Intelligence, the
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Director of the National Security Agen-
cy, or other head of an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(4) INDIVIDUAL IN THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.—
The term ‘‘individual in the executive
branch’’ means any officer or employee of
the executive branch, including individuals—
(A) occupying a position specified in arti-
cle II of the Constitution;
(B) appointed to a position by an indi-
vidual described in subparagraph (A); or
(C) serving in the civil service or the Sen-
ior Executive Service (or similar service for
senior executives of particular departments
or agencies).
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that section
502 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3092) requires elements of the intel-
ligence community to keep the congres-
sional intelligence committees ‘‘fully and
currently informed’’ about all ‘‘intelligence
activities’’ of the United States, and to ‘‘fur-
nish to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees any information or material con-
cerning intelligence activities * * * which is
requested by either of the congressional in-
telligence committees in order to carry out
its authorized responsibilities.’’.
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) section 502 of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3092), together with other
intelligence community authorities, obli-
gates an element of the intelligence commu-
nity to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees written notification, by
not later than 7 days after becoming aware,
that an individual in the executive branch
has disclosed covered classified information
to an official of an adversary foreign govern-
ment using methods other than established
intelligence channels; and
(2) each such notification should include—
(A) the date and place of the disclosure of
classified information covered by the notifi-
cation;
(B) a description of such classified infor-
mation;
(C) identification of the individual who
made such disclosure and the individual to
whom such disclosure was made; and
(D) a summary of the circumstances of
such disclosure.
SEC. 748. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONSIDER-
ATION OF ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES
WHEN CONSIDERING WHETHER OR
NOT TO PROVIDE VISAS TO FOREIGN
INDIVIDUALS TO BE ACCREDITED
TO A UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN
THE UNITED STATES.
It is the sense of the Congress that the
Secretary of State, in considering whether or
not to provide a visa to a foreign individual
to be accredited to a United Nations mission
in the United States, should consider—
(1) known and suspected intelligence ac-
tivities, espionage activities, including ac-
tivities constituting precursors to espionage,
carried out by the individual against the
United States, foreign allies of the United
States, or foreign partners of the United
States; and
(2) the status of an individual as a known
or suspected intelligence officer for a foreign
adversary.
SEC. 749. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON WIKILEAKS.
It is the sense of Congress that WikiLeaks
and the senior leadership of WikiLeaks re-
semble a nonstate hostile intelligence serv-
ice often abetted by state actors and should
be treated as such a service by the United
States.
SA 715. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 1023, strike ‘‘for Fiscal Year
2018’’ and insert ‘‘for Fiscal Year 2019’’.
SA 716. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of division C, add the fol-
lowing:
TITLE XXXVI—PROTECT OUR
UNIVERSITIES
SEC. 3601. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Protect Our
Universities Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 3602. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The United States enjoys one of the
most vibrant and open education systems in
the world. The free flow of ideas has led to
the development of innovative technologies
and new modes of thinking. The openness of
the system also puts it at risk. Adversaries
of the United States take advantage of ac-
cess to federally funded sensitive research
that takes place on the campuses of institu-
tions of higher education.
(2) According to Alex Joske of the Aus-
tralian Strategic Policy Institute, there are
thousands of scientists with links to China’s
People’s Liberation Army who have traveled
to American universities over the last sev-
eral years. In his report, Joske described the
Chinese military’s tactic as ‘‘picking flowers
in foreign lands to make honey in China’’.
(3) As stated in the January 2018 China’s
Technology Transfer Strategy report by the
Defense Innovation Unit, ‘‘Academia is an
opportune environment for learning about
science and technology since the cultural
values of U.S. educational institutions re-
flect an open and free exchange of ideas. As
a result, Chinese science and engineering
students frequently master technologies that
later become critical to key military sys-
tems, amounting over time to unintentional
violations of U.S. export control laws.’’.
(4) In Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) Director Wray’s view, Chinese non-
traditional intelligence collectors ‘‘are ex-
ploiting the very open research and develop-
ment environment that we have, which we
all revere. But they’re taking advantage of
it, so one of the things we’re trying to do is
view the China threat as not just the whole-
of-government threat, but a whole-of-society
threat on their end, and I think it’s going to
take a whole-of-society response by us.’’.
(5) Russia has also attempted to exploit
the openness of our university system for in-
telligence purposes. In 2012, for instance, the
Russian Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR)
tasked an undercover officer at Columbia
University with recruiting classmates or
professors who might have access to sen-
sitive information.
(6) Iran poses a similar threat. In 2012,
President Barack Obama signed into law the
Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human
Rights Act of 2012 (Public Law 112–158),
which prohibited issuance of a student visa
to any Iranian who wished to pursue
coursework in preparation for a career in the
Iranian energy, nuclear science, or nuclear
engineering sectors, or related fields.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.066 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3751
June 18, 2019
(7) The United States recognizes the great
value of appropriate openness and the secu-
rity need of striking a balance with asset
protection.
(8) However, technology and information
that could be deemed sensitive to the na-
tional security interests of the United States
should be given increased scrutiny to deter-
mine if access should be restricted in a re-
search environment.
(9) An open federally funded research envi-
ronment exposes the United States to the
possibility of exchanging research affiliated
with current or future critical military tech-
nological systems.
(10) This title preserves the openness of
America’s higher education system, while
preventing adversaries from exploiting that
very system in furtherance of their own re-
pressive agendas.
SEC. 3603. TASK FORCE AND SENSITIVE RE-
SEARCH PROJECT DESIGNATION.
(a) TASK FORCE ESTABLISHED.—Not later
than one year after the date of enactment of
this title, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, in consultation with the Secretary of
State and the Director of National Intel-
ligence, shall establish the National Secu-
rity Technology Task Force (hereinafter re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Task Force’’) to address the
threat of espionage, targeting research and
development at institutions of higher edu-
cation that is funded in part or whole by any
member agency of the Task Force.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
(1) DESIGNATION.—
(A) PARTICIPATION.—The Task Force shall
include not more than 30 members as fol-
lows:
(i) At least 1 representative shall be from
the Department of Homeland Security, des-
ignated by the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(ii) The Secretary of Homeland Security
shall coordinate with the following in order
to secure their participation on the Task
Force:
(I) The Director of National Intelligence
for at least 1 representative from the intel-
ligence community.
(II) The United States Attorney General
for at least 1 representative from the Depart-
ment of Justice.
(III) The Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation for at least 1 representative
from the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(IV) The Secretary of Energy for at least 1
representative from the Department of En-
ergy.
(V) The Secretary of Education for at least
1 representative from each of the following
offices of the Department of Education:
(aa) The Office of Postsecondary Edu-
cation.
(bb) The Office of the General Counsel.
(cc) Any other office the Secretary of
Homeland Security determines to be appro-
priate.
(VI) The Secretary of State for at least 1
representative from the Department of
State.
(VII) The Secretary of Defense for at least
1 representative from the Department of De-
fense.
(VIII) The Director of the National Insti-
tutes of Health for at least 1 representative
from the National Institutes of Health.
(IX) The Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy.
(B) EQUAL REPRESENTATION.—Each agency
represented on the Task Force shall main-
tain equal representation with the other
agencies on the Task Force.
(2) MEMBERSHIP LIST.—Not later than 10
days after the first meeting of the Task
Force, the Task Force shall submit to Con-
gress a list identifying each member agency
of the Task Force.
(c) SENSITIVE RESEARCH TOPICS LIST.—The
Task Force shall maintain a list of topics de-
termined sensitive by one or more Task
Force member agencies. Such list shall be
referred to as the ‘‘Sensitive Research Topics
List’’ and be populated and maintained in ac-
cordance with the following:
(1) Not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this title, each Task Force
member agency shall generate an initial list
of research topics determined sensitive for
national security reasons and submit such
list to the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) Each Task Force member agency shall
update their respective list of sensitive re-
search topics on a 6-month basis and submit
changes to the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence.
(3) Task Force member agency inputs de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be
added to—
(A) any item listed on the Commerce Con-
trol List (CCL) maintained by the Depart-
ment of Commerce; and
(B) any item listed on the United States
Munitions List maintained by the Depart-
ment of State.
(4) Not later than 90 days after receipt of
Task Force member agency inputs described
in paragraphs (1) and (2), the Office of the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall compile
the inputs and issue the first Sensitive Re-
search Topics List to all Task Force member
agencies. Thereafter, the Office of Directory
of National Intelligence shall maintain an
updated list of the research topics based on
Task Force member agency inputs and any
changes to the Commerce Control List and
the United States Munitions List, and ensure
an updated version of the Sensitive Research
Topic Lists is available to all of the Task
Force member agencies.
(d) SENSITIVE RESEARCH PROJECTS LIST.—
The Task Force shall maintain a list of
projects funded by Task Force member agen-
cies and addressing sensitive research topics.
Such list shall be referred to as the ‘‘Sen-
sitive Research Projects List’’ and be popu-
lated and maintained in accordance with the
following:
(1) Not later than 90 days after the first
issuance of the Sensitive Research Topics
List, each Task Force member agency shall
identify any ongoing or scheduled projects
that—
(A) receive or are scheduled to receive
funding from said agency;
(B) involve personnel from an institution
of higher education; and
(C) address one or more topics found on the
Sensitive Research Topics List.
(2) The Task Force shall collect the fol-
lowing information relevant to each project
identified in paragraph (1):
(A) The Task Force member agency that is
funding the project.
(B) Which topic on the Sensitive Research
Topics List is addressed by the project.
(C) Contact information for the principal
investigator on the project.
(3) The Task Force shall submit the Sen-
sitive Research Projects List, with the re-
quired information, to the Office of the Di-
rector of National Intelligence, who shall
maintain the Sensitive Research Projects
List
(4) The Sensitive Research Projects List
shall be updated in response to any changes
to the Sensitive Research Topics List, and—
(A) the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence shall issue notification to all
Task Force member agencies of any changes
to the Sensitive Research Topics List result-
ing from updated inputs from Task Force
member agencies or the Commerce Control
Lists or United States Munitions List; and
(B) each Task Force member agency
shall—
(i) reinitiate the process detailed in para-
graph (1); and
(ii) provide an update list of agency-funded
sensitive research projects to the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence.
(e) CONSULTATION WITH OIG.—The Task
Force shall periodically, but not less fre-
quently than annually, consult with the Of-
fice of the Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, which shall in-
clude annual reports to the Office of the In-
spector General on the activities of the Task
Force, with an opportunity for the Office of
the Inspector General to provide active feed-
back related to such activities.
(f) INSTRUCTION TO INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER
EDUCATION.—Not less frequently than annu-
ally, the Task Force shall provide relevant
instruction to institutions of higher edu-
cation at which research projects on the Sen-
sitive Research Projects List are being car-
ried out. Such instruction shall provide the
institutions of higher education with infor-
mation related to the threat posed by espio-
nage, best practices identified by the Task
Force, and, to the extent possible, any spe-
cific risks that the intelligence community,
the qualified funding agency, or law enforce-
ment entities determine appropriate to share
with the institutions.
(g) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
one year after the date of enactment of this
title, and every 6 months thereafter, the
Task Force shall provide a report to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs, the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions, the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, and the Select
Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and
to the Committee on Homeland Security, the
Committee on Education and Labor, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives, regarding the
threat of espionage at institutions of higher
education. In each such briefing, the Task
Force shall identify actions that may be
taken to reduce espionage carried out
through student participation in sensitive
research projects. The Task Force shall also
include in this report an assessment of
whether the current licensing regulations re-
lating to the International Traffic in Arms
Regulations and the Export Administration
Regulations are sufficient to protect the se-
curity of the projects listed on the Sensitive
Research Projects List.
SEC. 3604. FOREIGN STUDENT PARTICIPATION IN
SENSITIVE RESEARCH PROJECTS.
(a) APPROVAL OF FOREIGN STUDENT PAR-
TICIPATION REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date
that is one year after the date of enactment
of this title, for each project on the Sensitive
Research Projects List that is open to stu-
dent participation, the head of such project
at the institution of higher education at
which the project is being carried out shall—
(A) obtain proof of citizenship from any
student participating or expected to partici-
pate in such project before the student is
permitted to participate in such project; and
(B) for any student who is a citizen of a
country identified in subsection (b), submit
the required information, to be defined in co-
ordination with the office designated by the
Task Force to perform the background
screening, to their grantmaking agency, who
shall transmit that information in a stand-
ardized format, to be stipulated in coordina-
tion with the office designated by the Task
Force to perform the background screening,
to the office designated by the Task Force to
perform the background screening.
(2) BACKGROUND SCREENING.—An office des-
ignated by the Task Force shall perform a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.079 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3752 June 18, 2019
background screening of a student described
in paragraph (1) and approve or deny the stu-
dent’s participation in the relevant project
within 90 days of initial receipt of the infor-
mation described in paragraph (1)(B), and—
(A) the scope of any such screening shall be
determined by the designated office in con-
sultation with the Task Force, with ref-
erence to the specific project and the re-
quirements of the grantmaking agency;
(B) the Secretary of Homeland Security, as
head of the Task Force, shall retain author-
ity to delay approval or denial of a student’s
participation in a sensitive research project
in 30-day increments, as needed in coordina-
tion with Task Force member agencies; and
(C) institutions of higher education shall
maintain the right to petition findings and
contest the outcome of a screening.
(b) LIST OF CITIZENSHIP REQUIRING AP-
PROVAL.—Approval under subsection (a) shall
be required for any student who is a citizen
of a country that is one of the following:
(1) The People’s Republic of China.
(2) The Russian Federation.
(3) The Islamic Republic of Iran.
SEC. 3605. FOREIGN ENTITIES.
(a) LIST OF FOREIGN ENTITIES THAT POSE AN
INTELLIGENCE THREAT.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
title, the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall coordinate with the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence to identify foreign enti-
ties, including governments, corporations,
nonprofit and for-profit organizations, and
any subsidiary or affiliate of such an entity,
that the Director determines pose a threat of
espionage with respect to sensitive research
projects, and shall develop and maintain a
list of such entities. The Director may add or
remove entities from such list at any time.
The initial list developed by the Director
shall include the following entities (includ-
ing any subsidiary or affiliate):
(1) Huawei Technologies Company.
(2) ZTE Corporation.
(3) Hytera Communications Corporation.
(4) Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology
Company.
(5) Dahua Technology Company.
(6) Kaspersky Lab.
(7) Any entity that is owned or controlled
by, or otherwise has demonstrated financial
ties to, the government of a country identi-
fied under section 3604(b).
(b) NOTICE TO INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDU-
CATION.—The Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity shall make the initial list required
under subsection (a) in coordination with the
Director of National Intelligence, and any
changes to such list, available to the Task
Force and the head of each qualified funding
agency as soon as practicable. The Secretary
of Homeland Security shall provide such ini-
tial list and subsequent amendments to each
institution of higher education at which a
project on the Sensitive Research Projects
List is being carried out.
(c) PROHIBITION ON USE OF CERTAIN TECH-
NOLOGIES.—Beginning on the date that is one
year after the date of the enactment of this
title, the head of each sensitive research
project shall, as a condition of receipt of
funds from the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, certify to the Secretary of Homeland
Security, beginning on the date that is 2
years after the date of the enactment of this
title, any technology developed by an entity
included on the list maintained under sub-
section (a) shall not be utilized in carrying
out the sensitive research project.
SEC. 3606. ENFORCEMENT.
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
take such steps as may be necessary to en-
force the provisions of sections 3604 and 3605
of this title. Upon determination that the
head of a sensitive research project has
failed to meet the requirements of either
section 3604 or section 3605, the Secretary of
Homeland Security may determine the ap-
propriate enforcement action, including—
(1) imposing a probationary period, not to
exceed 6 months, on the head of such project,
or on the project;
(2) reducing or otherwise limiting the fund-
ing for such project until the violation has
been remedied;
(3) permanently cancelling the funding for
such project; or
(4) any other action the head of the quali-
fied funding agency determines to be appro-
priate.
SEC. 3607. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) CITIZEN OF A COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘cit-
izen of a country,’’ with respect to a student,
includes all countries in which the student
has held or holds citizenship or holds perma-
nent residency.
(2) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The
term ‘‘institution of higher education’’
means an institution described in section 102
of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002) that receives Federal funds in any
amount and for any purpose.
(3) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 3 of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(4) QUALIFIED FUNDING AGENCY.—The term
‘‘qualified funding agency’’, with respect to a
sensitive research project, means—
(A) the Department of Defense, if the sen-
sitive research project is funded in whole or
in part by the Department of Defense;
(B) the Department of Energy, if the sen-
sitive research project is funded in whole or
in part by the Department of Energy; or
(C) an element of the intelligence commu-
nity, if the sensitive research project is fund-
ed in whole or in part by the element of the
intelligence community.
(5) SENSITIVE RESEARCH PROJECT.—The
term ‘‘sensitive research project’’ means a
research project at an institution of higher
education that is funded by a Task Force
member agency, except that such term shall
not include any research project that is clas-
sified or that requires the participants in
such project to obtain a security clearance.
(6) STUDENT PARTICIPATION.—The term
‘‘student participation’’ means any student
activity of a student with access to sensitive
research project-specific information for any
reason.
SA 717. Mr. THUNE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title IV, add the
following:
SEC. 402. EXCLUSION FROM ACTIVE-DUTY PER-
SONNEL END STRENGTH LIMITA-
TIONS OF CERTAIN MILITARY PER-
SONNEL ASSIGNED FOR DUTY IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FOREIGN
MILITARY SALES PROGRAM.
(a) EXCLUSION.—Except as provided in sub-
section (c), members of the Armed Forces on
active duty who are assigned to an entity
specified in subsection (b) for duty in con-
nection with the Foreign Military Sales
(FMS) program shall not count toward any
end strength limitation for active-duty per-
sonnel otherwise applicable to members of
the Armed Forces on active duty.
(b) SPECIFIED ENTITIES.—The entities speci-
fied in this subsection are the following:
(1) The military departments.
(2) The Defense Security Cooperation
Agency.
(3) The combatant commands.
(c) INAPPLICABILITY TO GENERAL AND FLAG
OFFICERS.—Subsection (a) shall not apply
with respect to any general or flag officer as-
signed as described in that subsection.
SA 718. Mr. THUNE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1045. TRANSFER OF EXCESS AIR FORCE MQ–
1 PREDATOR REMOTELY PILOTED
AIRCRAFT AND RELATED EQUIP-
MENT TO DEPARTMENT OF HOME-
LAND SECURITY FOR U.S. CUSTOMS
AND BORDER PATROL PURPOSES.
(a) OFFER OF FIRST REFUSAL OUTSIDE
DOD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon a determination
that aircraft or equipment specified in sub-
section (b) is also excess to the requirements
of all components of the Department of De-
fense, the Secretary of the Air Force shall
offer to the Secretary of Homeland Security
to transfer such aircraft or equipment to the
Secretary of Homeland Security for use by
U.S. Customs and Border Patrol.
(2) TIMING OF OFFER.—Any offer under this
subsection for aircraft or equipment shall be
made before such aircraft or equipment is
otherwise disposed of outside the Depart-
ment of Defense.
(b) AIRCRAFT AND EQUIPMENT.—The aircraft
and equipment specified in this subsection is
the following:
(1) Retired MQ–1 Predator remotely piloted
aircraft of the Air Force that are excess to
Department of the Air Force requirements.
(2) Initial spare MQ–1 Predator remotely
pilot aircraft of the Air Force that are excess
to such requirements.
(3) Ground support equipment of the Air
Force for MQ–1 Predator remotely piloted
aircraft that is excess to such requirements.
(c) TRANSFER.—If the Secretary of Home-
land Security accepts an offer under sub-
section (a), the Secretary of the Air Force
shall transfer the aircraft or equipment con-
cerned to the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity. The cost of any aircraft or equipment
so transferred, and the cost of transfer, shall
be borne by the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(d) DEMILITARIZATION.—Any aircraft or
equipment transferred under this section
shall be demilitarized before transfer. The
cost of demilitarization shall be borne by the
Secretary of the Air Force.
(e) USE OF TRANSFERRED AIRCRAFT AND
EQUIPMENT.—Any aircraft or equipment
transferred to the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity pursuant to this section shall be used
by the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and
Border Patrol for border security, enforce-
ment of the immigration laws, and related
purposes.
SA 719. Mr. HAWLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.079 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3753
June 18, 2019
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 1233, strike ‘‘Subsection (a)’’ and
insert ‘‘Section 1232(a)’’.
SA 720. Mr. PAUL (for himself and
Mr. UDALL) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title XV, add the following:
Subtitle C—Withdrawal of Armed Forces
From Afghanistan
SEC. 1531. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The Joint Resolution to authorize the
use of United States Armed Forces against
those responsible for the attacks launched
against the United States (Public Law 107–
40) states, ‘‘That the President is authorized
to use all necessary and appropriate force
against those nations, organizations, or per-
sons he determines planned, authorized,
committed, or aided the terrorist attacks
that occurred on September 11, 2001’’.
(2) Since 2001, more than 3,002,635 men and
women of the United States Armed Forces
have deployed in support of the Global War
on Terrorism, with more than 1,400,000 of
them deploying more than once, and these
Americans who volunteered in a time of war
have served their country honorably and
with distinction.
(3) In November 2009 there were fewer than
100 Al-Qaeda members remaining in Afghani-
stan.
(4) On May 2, 2011, Osama Bin Laden, the
founder of Al-Qaeda, was killed by United
States Armed Forces in Pakistan.
(5) United States Armed Forces have suc-
cessfully routed Al-Qaeda from the battle-
field in Afghanistan, thus fulfilling the origi-
nal intent of Public Law 107–40 and the jus-
tification for the invasion of Afghanistan,
but public support for United States contin-
ued presence in Afghanistan has waned in re-
cent years.
(6) An October 2018 poll found that 57 per-
cent of Americans, including 69 percent of
United States veterans, believe that all
United States troops should be removed from
Afghanistan.
(7) In June 2018, the Department of Defense
reported, ‘‘The al-Qa’ida threat to the United
States and its allies and partners has de-
creased and the few remaining al-Qa’ida core
members are focused on their own survival’’.
SEC. 1532. WITHDRAWAL OF UNITED STATES
ARMED FORCES FROM AFGHANI-
STAN.
(a) PLAN REQUIRED.—Not later than 45 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, or designee, in co-
operation with the heads of all other rel-
evant Federal agencies involved in the con-
flict in Afghanistan shall—
(1)(A) formulate a plan for the orderly
drawdown and withdrawal of all soldiers,
sailors, airmen, and Marines from Afghani-
stan who were involved in operations in-
tended to provide security to the people of
Afghanistan, including policing action, or
military actions against paramilitary orga-
nizations inside Afghanistan, excluding
members of the military assigned to support
United States embassies or consulates, or in-
telligence operations authorized by Con-
gress; and
(B) appear before the relevant congres-
sional committees to explain the proposed
implementation of the plan formulated
under subparagraph (A); and
(2)(A) formulate a framework for political
reconciliation and popular democratic elec-
tions independent of United States involve-
ment in Afghanistan, which may be used by
the Government of Afghanistan to ensure
that any political party that meets the re-
quirements under Article 35 of the Constitu-
tion of Afghanistan is permitted to partici-
pate in general elections; and
(B) appear before the relevant congres-
sional committees to explain the proposed
implementation of the framework formu-
lated under subparagraph (A).
(b) REMOVAL AND BONUSES.—Not later than
one year after the date of the enactment of
this Act—
(1) all United States Armed Forces in Af-
ghanistan as of such date of enactment shall
be withdrawn and removed from Afghani-
stan; and
(2) the Secretary of Defense shall provide
all members of the United States Armed
Forces who were deployed in support of the
Global War on Terror with a $2,500 bonus to
recognize that these Americans have served
in the Global War On Terrorism exclusively
on a volunteer basis and to demonstrate the
heartfelt gratitude of our Nation.
(c) REPEAL OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF
MILITARY FORCE.—The Authorization for Use
of Military Force (Public Law 107–40) is re-
pealed effective on the earlier of—
(1) the date that is 395 days after the date
of the enactment of this joint resolution: or
(2) the date on which the Secretary of De-
fense certifies that all United States Armed
Forces involved in operations or military ac-
tions in Afghanistan (as described in sub-
section (a)(1)(A)) have departed from Afghan-
istan.
SA 721. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and
Mr. REED) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 36, beginning on line 15, strike
‘‘amounts authorized to be appropriated’’
and all that follows through ‘‘acquisition
strategy’’ and insert ‘‘funds authorized to be
appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2020
for the Department of Defense may be used
to exceed, and the Department may not oth-
erwise exceed, the total procurement quan-
tity of thirty-five Littoral Combat Ships,’’.
On page 49, beginning on line 14, strike
‘‘authorized to be appropriated’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘program of record’’ and in-
sert ‘‘authorized to be appropriated by this
Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Defense may be used for the procurement of
a current or future Department of Defense
communications program of record, and the
Department may not otherwise procure a
current or future communications program
of record,’’.
On page 54, beginning on line 6, strike ‘‘au-
thorized to be appropriated’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘Chief of Naval Operations’’
and insert ‘‘authorized to be appropriated by
this Act for fiscal year 2020 for operation and
maintenance for the Office of the Secretary
of the Air Force and for operation and main-
tenance for the Office of the Secretary of the
Navy, not more than 50 percent may be obli-
gated or expended until the date that is 15
days after the date on which the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force and the Chief of Naval
Operations, respectively,’’.
On page 58, beginning on line 5, strike ‘‘au-
thorized to be appropriated’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘enduring capability’’ and in-
sert ‘‘authorized to be appropriated by this
Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Army may be
obligated or expended for research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation for the Indirect
Fire Protection Capability Increment 2 en-
during capability, and the Department may
not otherwise engaged in research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation on such capa-
bility,’’.
On page 138, line 3, strike ‘‘or otherwise
made available’’.
On page 539, line 19, strike ‘‘or otherwise
made available’’.
On page 543, line 24, strike ‘‘or otherwise
made available’’ and insert ‘‘for fiscal year
2020’’.
On page 704, strike line 24 and all that fol-
lows through page 705, line 8, and insert the
following:
(a) PROHIBITION.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), none of the funds authorized
to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of Defense may be
obligated or expended for the following, and
the Department may not otherwise take any
action to do the following:
(1) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the re-
sponsiveness or alert level of the interconti-
nental ballistic missiles of the United
States.
(2) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quan-
tity of deployed intercontinental ballistic
missiles of the United States to a number
less than 400.
On page 773, beginning on line 8, strike
‘‘authorized to be appropriated’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘theater’’ on line 13 and in-
sert ‘‘authorized to be appropriated by this
Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Defense may be obligated or expended to im-
plement any activity that reduces air base
resiliency or demolishes protected aircraft
shelters in the European theater, and the De-
partment may not otherwise implement any
such activity,’’.
On page 773, beginning on line 21, strike
‘‘authorized to be appropriated’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘air base’’ and insert ‘‘au-
thorized to be appropriated by this Act for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of De-
fense may be obligated or expended to imple-
ment any activity that closes or returns to
the host nation any existing air base, and
the Department may not otherwise imple-
ment any such activity,’’.
SA 722. Mr. WARNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, insert
the following:
SEC. l. FOREIGN INFLUENCE REPORTING IN
ELECTIONS.
(a) FEDERAL CAMPAIGN REPORTING OF FOR-
EIGN CONTACTS.—Section 304 of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.069 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3754 June 18, 2019
30104) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(j) DISCLOSURE OF REPORTABLE FOREIGN
CONTACTS.—
‘‘(1) COMMITTEE OBLIGATION.—Not later
than 1 week after a reportable foreign con-
tact, each authorized committee of a can-
didate for the office of President shall notify
the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Commission of the reportable foreign con-
tact and provide a summary of the cir-
cumstances with respect to such reportable
foreign contact.
‘‘(2) INDIVIDUAL OBLIGATION.—Not later
than 1 week after a reportable foreign con-
tact—
‘‘(A) each candidate for the office of Presi-
dent shall notify the treasurer or other des-
ignated official of the principal campaign
committee of such candidate of the report-
able foreign contact and provide a summary
of the circumstances with respect to such re-
portable foreign contact; and
‘‘(B) each official, employee, or agent of an
authorized committee of a candidate for the
office of President shall notify the treasurer
or other designated official of the authorized
committee of the reportable foreign contact
and provide a summary of the circumstances
with respect to such reportable foreign con-
tact.
‘‘(3) REPORTABLE FOREIGN CONTACT.—In this
subsection:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘reportable
foreign contact’ means any direct or indirect
contact or communication that—
‘‘(i) is between—
‘‘(I) a candidate for the office of President,
an authorized committee of such a can-
didate, or any official, employee, or agent of
such authorized committee; and
‘‘(II) a foreign national (as defined in sec-
tion 319(b)) or a person that the person de-
scribed in subclause (I) believes to be a for-
eign national; and
‘‘(ii) the person described in clause (i)(I)
knows, has reason to know, or reasonably be-
lieves involves—
‘‘(I) a contribution, donation, expenditure,
disbursement, or solicitation described in
section 319; or
‘‘(II) coordination or collaboration with, an
offer or provision of information or services
to or from, or persistent and repeated con-
tact with a government of a foreign country
or an agent thereof.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Such term shall not in-
clude any contact or communication with a
foreign government or an agent of a foreign
principal by an elected official or an em-
ployee of an elected official solely in an offi-
cial capacity as such an official or em-
ployee.’’.
(b) FEDERAL CAMPAIGN FOREIGN CONTACT
REPORTING COMPLIANCE SYSTEM.—Section
302(e) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30102(e)) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(6) REPORTABLE FOREIGN CONTACTS COM-
PLIANCE POLICY.—
‘‘(A) REPORTING.—Each authorized com-
mittee of a candidate for the office of Presi-
dent shall establish a policy that requires all
officials, employees, and agents of such com-
mittee to notify the treasurer or other ap-
propriate designated official of the com-
mittee of any reportable foreign contact (as
defined in section 304(j)) not later than 1
week after such contact was made.
‘‘(B) RETENTION AND PRESERVATION OF
RECORDS.—Each authorized committee of a
candidate for the office of President shall es-
tablish a policy that provides for the reten-
tion and preservation of records and infor-
mation related to reportable foreign con-
tacts (as so defined) for a period of not less
than 3 years.
‘‘(C) CERTIFICATION.—Upon designation of a
political committee as an authorized com-
mittee by a candidate for the office of Presi-
dent, and with each report filed by such com-
mittee under section 304(a), the candidate
shall certify that—
‘‘(i) the committee has in place policies
that meets the requirements of subparagraph
(A) and (B);
‘‘(ii) the committee has designated an offi-
cial to monitor compliance with such poli-
cies; and
‘‘(iii) not later than 1 week after the begin-
ning of any formal or informal affiliation
with the committee, all officials, employees,
and agents of such committee will—
‘‘(I) receive notice of such policies; and
‘‘(II) be informed of the prohibitions under
section 319; and
‘‘(III) sign a certification affirming their
understanding of such policies and prohibi-
tions.’’.
(c) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—Section 309(d)(1)
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30109(d)(1)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(E) Any person who knowingly and will-
fully commits a violation of section 304(j) or
section 302(e)(6) shall be fined not more than
$500,000, imprisoned not more than 5 years,
or both.
‘‘(F) Any person who knowingly or will-
fully conceals or destroys any materials re-
lating to a reportable foreign contact (as de-
fined in section 304(j)) shall be fined not
more than $1,000,000, imprisoned not more
than 5 years, or both.’’.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section or the amendments made by this
section shall be construed—
(1) to impede legitimate journalistic ac-
tivities; or
(2) to impose any additional limitation on
the right of any individual who is not a cit-
izen of the United States or a national of the
United States (as defined in section 101(a)(22)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act) and
who is not lawfully admitted for permanent
residence, as defined by section 101(a)(20) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1101(a)(20)) to express political views
or to participate in public discourse.
SA 723. Ms. STABENOW (for herself
and Ms. COLLINS) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to
the bill S. 1790, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title VIII, add
the following:
SEC. 811. GUIDANCE ON BUY AMERICAN ACT AND
BERRY AMENDMENT REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) BUY AMERICAN ACT GUIDANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of Defense Pricing/Defense Pro-
curement Acquisition Policy shall issue
guidance to Department of Defense con-
tracting officials on requirements related to
chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code
(commonly referred to as the ‘‘Buy American
Act’’). The guidance shall reflect any Depart-
ment actions taken in response to the April
18, 2017, Executive Order No. 13788, ‘‘Buy
American and Hire American’’.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The guidance issued under
paragraph (1) shall cover—
(A) the requirement to incorporate and en-
force the Buy American Act provisions and
clauses in applicable solicitations and con-
tracts; and
(B) the requirements of the Buy American
Act, such as inclusion of clauses, into the
electronic contract writing systems used by
the military departments and the Defense
Logistics Agency.
(b) BERRY AMENDMENT AND SPECIALTY MET-
ALS CLAUSE GUIDANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of Defense Pricing/Defense Pro-
curement Acquisition Policy shall issue
guidance to Department of Defense con-
tracting officials on requirements related to
section 2533a of title 10, United States Code
(commonly referred to as the ‘‘Berry Amend-
ment’’), and section 2533b of title 10, United
States Code (commonly referred to as the
‘‘specialty metals clause’’).
(2) ELEMENTS.—The guidance issued under
paragraph (1) shall cover—
(A) the requirement to incorporate and en-
force the Berry Amendment and the spe-
cialty metals clause provisions and clauses
in applicable solicitations and contracts; and
(B) the requirements of the Berry Amend-
ment and the specialty metals clause, such
as inclusion of clauses, into the electronic
contract writing systems used by the mili-
tary departments and the Defense Logistics
Agency.
SA 724. Mr. UDALL (for himself and
Mr. CRAPO) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title XXXI, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. REPORT REGARDING GOVERNMENT
NUCLEAR TESTING AND COMPENSA-
TION FOR RADIATION EXPOSURE.
By not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General,
in consultation with the heads of appropriate
Federal agencies, shall prepare and submit a
report to the Committee on Armed Services
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate, and the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices and the Committee on the Judiciary of
the House of Representatives, that—
(1) assesses the extent to which individuals
affected by Federal Government nuclear
testing are prevented from receiving com-
pensation under the Radiation Exposure
Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note); and
(2) describes the different groups, including
an estimate of the number of people in each
group, who are affected by Federal Govern-
ment nuclear testing but are not com-
pensated under such Act, including people of
the United States who live in close prox-
imity to where such testing occurred.
SA 725. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, insert
the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.065 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3755
June 18, 2019
SEC. 1086. IMMIGRANT VETERANS ELIGIBILITY
TRACKING SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—On the application by an
alien for an immigration benefit or the
placement of an alien in an immigration en-
forcement proceeding, the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall—
(1) determine whether the alien is serving,
or has served, as a member of—
(A) a regular or reserve component of the
Armed Forces on active duty; or
(B) a reserve component of the Armed
Forces in an active status; and
(2) with respect to the immigration and
naturalization records of the Department of
Homeland Security relating to an alien who
is serving, or has served, as a member of the
Armed Forces described in paragraph (1), an-
notate such records—
(A) to reflect that membership; and
(B) to afford an opportunity to track the
outcomes for each such alien.
(b) CONSIDERATION OF MILITARY SERVICE
FOR EXPEDITED PROCESSING.—In determining
whether to expedite the processing of an ap-
plication of an individual for an immigration
benefit under the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), including
naturalization, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall consider—
(1) the service of the individual as a mem-
ber of—
(A) a regular or reserve component of the
Armed Forces on active duty; or
(B) a reserve component of the Armed
Forces in an active status; and
(2) the record of discharge from service in
the Armed Forces of the individual.
(c) PROHIBITION ON USE OF INFORMATION FOR
REMOVAL.—Information gathered under sub-
section (a) may not be used for the purpose
of removing an alien from the United States.
SA 726. Ms. WARREN (for herself and
Mr. LEAHY) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by her to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle F of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1061. IMPROVEMENT OF ANNUAL REPORT
ON CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN CON-
NECTION WITH UNITED STATES
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
(a) ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS.—Subsection (b)
of section 1057 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public
Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1572), as amended by
section 1062 of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1970), is
further amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end
the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) An assessment of any destruction of
or damage to public infrastructure or other
civilian objects.’’;
(2) in paragraph (3), by inserting before the
period at the end the following: ‘‘, and a de-
scription of the personnel and amounts dedi-
cated to investigations of allegations of ci-
vilian casualties covered by such report’’;
(3) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘, and de-
struction of or damage to public infrastruc-
ture and civilian objects,’’ after ‘‘harm to ci-
vilians’’;
(4) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6)
as paragraphs (8) and (9), respectively; and
(5) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(5) An explanation for the discrepancies,
if any, between Department of Defense post-
operation assessments of civilian casualties
in connection with military operations cov-
ered by such report and credible reports of
intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations on such casualties, set forth in
general and in connection with each military
operation covered by such report.
‘‘(6) A description of the manner in which
the reliability and accuracy of reports and
assessments covered by such report were de-
termined, and the standards used in deter-
mining such reliability and accuracy.
‘‘(7) A description of the manner in which
discrepancies described in paragraph (5) were
addressed, and the standards used in address-
ing such discrepancies.’’.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FORM ON INTER-
NET WEBSITE.—Subsection (d) of such section
1057, as so amended, is further amended in
the second sentence by inserting ‘‘on an
Internet website of the Department of De-
fense’’ after ‘‘available to the public’’.
SA 727. Mr. PETERS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in subtitle H of
title X, insert the following:
SEC. 10ll. DESIGNATION OF PER- AND
POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES
AS HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency shall
designate all perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as hazardous sub-
stances under section 102(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9602(a)).
SA 728. Mr. CARDIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title XI, add the following:
SEC. 1106. REPORTS ON USE OF DIRECT HIRING
AUTHORITIES BY THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense (with respect to the Department of
Defense) and each Secretary of a military de-
partment (with respect to such military de-
partment) shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report on the use by
the department concerned of direct hiring
authority (DHA) for civilian employees of
such department. Each report shall set forth
the following:
(1) Citations to each of the direct hiring
authorities currently available to the de-
partment concerned.
(2) The current number of civilian employ-
ees of the department concerned who were
hired using direct hiring authority (whether
or not such authority is currently in force),
and the grade level and occupational series
of such civilian employees.
(3) A description and assessment of the
challenges, if any, faced by the department
concerned in hiring civilian employees for
critical positions and occupational series,
and a description and assessment of the role
of current or potential direct hiring authori-
ties in addressing such challenges.
(4) A proposal for increasing the number of
civilian employees of the department con-
cerned with a science and engineering back-
ground who are employed using direct hiring
authority.
SA 729. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lllll. PREVENTION OF FOREIGN INTER-
FERENCE WITH ELECTIONS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Prevention of Foreign Inter-
ference with Elections Act of 2019’’.
(b) INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS BY FOREIGN
NATIONALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 29 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 612. Interference in elections by foreign na-
tionals
‘‘(a) PENALTY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Whoever—
‘‘(A) conspires with an individual, while
having knowledge or reasonable cause to be-
lieve such individual is a foreign national, to
prevent, obstruct, impede, interfere with,
promote, support, or oppose the nomination
or the election of any candidate for any Fed-
eral, State, or local office, or any ballot
measure, initiative, or referendum; and
‘‘(B) knows or has reasonable cause to be-
lieve that an interfering act would be or has
been committed to effect the object of the
conspiracy;
shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for
not more than 5 years, or both.
‘‘(2) AGENTS OF FOREIGN POWERS.—Whoever
violates paragraph (1) by conspiring with an
agent of a foreign power shall be fined under
this title, imprisoned for not more than 10
years, or both.
‘‘(b) CONSECUTIVE SENTENCE.—No term of
imprisonment imposed on a person under
this section shall run concurrently with any
other term of imprisonment imposed on the
person under any other provision of law.
‘‘(c) INJUNCTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Whenever it shall appear
that any person is engaged or is about to en-
gage in any act which constitutes a violation
of this section, the Attorney General may
bring a civil action in a district court of the
United States seeking an order to enjoin
such act.
‘‘(2) ACTION BY COURT.—The court shall pro-
ceed as soon as practicable to the hearing
and determination of a civil action brought
under this subsection, and may, at any time
before final determination, enter such a re-
straining order or prohibition, or take such
other action, as is warranted to prevent a
continuing and substantial injury to the
United States, a State, or a locality, or to
any person or class of persons for whose pro-
tection the civil action is brought.
‘‘(3) PROCEDURE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A proceeding under this
subsection shall be governed by the Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.065 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3756 June 18, 2019
Rules of Civil Procedure, except that, if an
indictment has been returned against the re-
spondent, discovery shall be governed by the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
‘‘(B) SEALED PROCEEDINGS.—If a civil ac-
tion is brought under this subsection, before
an indictment is returned against the re-
spondent or while an indictment against the
respondent is under seal—
‘‘(i) the court shall place the civil action
under seal; and
‘‘(ii) when the indictment is unsealed, the
court shall unseal the civil action unless
good cause exists to keep the civil action
under seal.
‘‘(4) CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IF INDICTMENT
HAS NOT BEEN RETURNED AGAINST RESPOND-
ENT.—For any civil proceeding brought by
the Attorney General under this subsection
in which an indictment has not been re-
turned against the respondent, classified in-
formation in the civil proceeding shall be
subject to the procedures described in sec-
tion 2339B(f).
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘agent of a foreign power’—
‘‘(A) has the meaning given to the term in
section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence Sur-
veillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801); and
‘‘(B) does not include a United States per-
son (as defined under section 101 of the For-
eign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50
U.S.C. 1801));
‘‘(2) the term ‘classified information’ has
the meaning given the term in section 1 of
the Classified Information Procedures Act
(18 U.S.C. App.);
‘‘(3) the term ‘foreign national’—
‘‘(A) means a foreign principal, as such
term is defined by section 1(b) of the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C.
611(b)); and
‘‘(B) does not include any individual who is
a citizen of the United States or a lawful per-
manent resident of the United States; and
‘‘(4) the term ‘interfering act’ means any
offense, that does have to be otherwise prov-
en, under or violation of—
‘‘(A) this title;
‘‘(B) section 12 of the Voting Rights Act of
1965 (52 U.S.C. 10308);
‘‘(C) the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.); or
‘‘(D) chapter 95 or 96 of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986.
‘‘(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed or applied to
abridge the exercise of rights guaranteed
under the First Amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States.’’.
(2) SEVERABILITY.—If any provision of this
section, an amendment made by this section,
or the application of such provision or
amendment to any person or circumstance is
held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of
this section, the amendments made by this
section, and the applications of the provi-
sions of such to any other person or cir-
cumstance shall not be affected thereby.
(3) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 29 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘612. Interference in elections by foreign na-
tionals.’’.
(c) INADMISSIBILITY FOR INTERFERENCE IN
ELECTIONS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.—Section
212(a)(10)(D) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(10)(D)) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘(D) UNLAWFUL VOTERS AND ELECTION IN-
TERFERENCE BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.—
‘‘(i) UNLAWFUL VOTERS.—Except as pro-
vided in clause (iii), any alien who has voted
in violation of any Federal, State, or local
constitutional provision, statute, ordinance,
or regulation is inadmissible.
‘‘(ii) ELECTION INTERFERENCE BY FOREIGN
NATIONALS.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subclause (II) and clause (iii), any alien con-
victed of violating section 612 of title 18,
United States Code, is inadmissible.
‘‘(II) EXCEPTION.—If an alien described in
subclause (I) is eligible under section 245(j)
for an adjustment of status to that of an
alien lawfully admitted for permanent resi-
dence, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
in the Secretary’s sole, unreviewable discre-
tion, may waive the applicability of sub-
clause (I) with respect to such alien.
‘‘(iii) EXCEPTION.—An alien shall not be
considered to be inadmissible under this sub-
paragraph if—
‘‘(I) the alien voted in a Federal, State, or
local election (including an initiative, recall,
or referendum) in violation of a lawful re-
striction of voting to citizens;
‘‘(II) each natural parent of the alien (or,
in the case of an adopted alien, each adoptive
parent of the alien) is or was a United States
citizen (whether by birth or naturalization);
‘‘(III) the alien permanently resided in the
United States before reaching 16 years of
age; and
‘‘(IV) the alien reasonably believed at the
time of the violation described in clause (i)
or (ii)(I) that he or she was a United States
citizen.’’.
(d) STRENGTHENING PROHIBITIONS ON EX-
PENDITURES BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.—Section
319 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by inserting ‘‘,
subject to subsection (c)’’ after ‘‘within the
meaning of section 304(f)(3)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsections:
‘‘(c) APPLICATION TO ELECTIONEERING COM-
MUNICATIONS.—
‘‘(1) ELECTIONEERING COMMUNICATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of applying
subsection (a)(1)(C) and subsection (d), an
‘electioneering communication’—
‘‘(i) does not include a news story, com-
mentary, editorial, or other communication
produced and distributed in the ordinary
course of bona fide press activity by a news
or press service or association, newspaper,
magazine, periodical, or other publication as
determined under subparagraph (B);
‘‘(ii) except as provided in clause (i), in-
cludes an Internet or digital communication
that otherwise meets the requirements of
section 304(f)(3) as modified by this para-
graph;
‘‘(iii) includes a communication that does
not refer to a clearly identified candidate for
Federal office as described in subparagraph
(A)(i)(I) of section 304(f)(3) if—
‘‘(I) the communication otherwise meets
the requirements of such section as modified
by this paragraph except that items (aa) and
(bb) of subparagraph (A)(i)(II) of such section
shall each be applied by substituting ‘Fed-
eral, State, or local office’ for ‘the office
sought by the candidate’;
‘‘(II) the communication—
‘‘(aa) references voting or a Federal, State,
or local election;
‘‘(bb) addresses an issue that is reasonably
understood to distinguish one candidate for
Federal, State, or local office from another;
‘‘(cc) republishes or is substantially iden-
tical to the communications of a candidate
for Federal, State, or local office on that
same issue;
‘‘(dd) expresses approval or disapproval of a
position reasonably identified with a can-
didate for Federal, State, or local office and
presented in substantially similar terms, re-
gardless of whether there is a specific ref-
erence to that candidate; or
‘‘(ee) references an employee of a candidate
or campaign for Federal, State, or local of-
fice or a political party; and
‘‘(iv) does not include a commercial adver-
tisement for goods or services by a foreign
corporation or business entity.
‘‘(B) DETERMINATION OF BONA FIDE PRESS
ACTIVITY.—For purposes of subparagraph
(A)(i), a news story, commentary, editorial,
or other communication is not produced and
distributed in the ordinary course of bona
fide press activity by a news or press service
or association, newspaper, magazine, peri-
odical, or other publication and the excep-
tion under such subparagraph shall not apply
if—
‘‘(i) such media outlet is owned, directed,
supervised, controlled, subsidized, or fi-
nanced by a government of a foreign coun-
try, as defined in section 1 of the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C.
611); and
‘‘(ii) such news story, commentary, edi-
torial, or other communication—
‘‘(I) is directed, produced, or distributed, at
the direction of government or political
party officials; and
‘‘(II) promotes, attacks, supports, or op-
poses any candidate for public office or polit-
ical party in the United States.
‘‘(2) FOREIGN INDIVIDUAL INTERNET ACTIVITY
EXCEPTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—When an individual or a
group of individuals engages in Internet ac-
tivities for the purposes of influencing an
election, neither of the following is a con-
tribution or expenditure for purposes of this
section by that individual or group of indi-
viduals:
‘‘(i) The uncompensated personal services
of the individual related to such Internet ac-
tivities. The exception under the preceding
sentence shall not apply to individuals or a
group of individuals acting on behalf of or in
any capacity at the order, request, or under
the direction or control, of a government of
a foreign country, a foreign political party,
or a person whose activities are directly or
indirectly supervised, directed, controlled,
financed, or subsidized in whole or in major
part by a government of a foreign country or
a foreign political party.
‘‘(ii) The use of equipment or services by
the individual for uncompensated Internet
activities, regardless of the identity of the
owner of the equipment or services. The ex-
ception under the preceding sentence shall
not apply to equipment or services supplied
or provided directly or indirectly by a gov-
ernment of a foreign country, a foreign polit-
ical party, or a person whose activities are
directly or indirectly supervised, directed,
controlled, financed, or subsidized in whole
or in major part by a government of a for-
eign country or a foreign political party.
‘‘(B) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this
paragraph, the terms ‘Internet activities’
and ‘equipment and services’ have the mean-
ing given such terms in section 100.94 of title
11, Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulation).
‘‘(d) PROHIBITION ON PROVIDING SUBSTAN-
TIAL ASSISTANCE TO A FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
AND FOREIGN POLITICAL PARTIES IN MAKING
CONTRIBUTIONS, DONATIONS, OR EXPENDI-
TURES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—No person shall know-
ingly provide substantial assistance to a for-
eign national, including a foreign govern-
ment or foreign political party, with respect
to directly or indirectly making a contribu-
tion or donation, or other thing of value, or
an expenditure, independent expenditure, or
disbursement for an electioneering commu-
nication (within the meaning of section
304(f)(3)), or any other act prohibited under
subsection (a).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.068 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3757
June 18, 2019
‘‘(2) DEFINITION.—As used in this sub-
section, the term ‘providing substantial as-
sistance’ means, with respect to an act de-
scribed in paragraph (1), the facilitation of
such act by a foreign national, including a
foreign government or foreign political
party. Such facilitation includes the know-
ing republication of foreign government and
foreign political party electioneering com-
munications referred to in subsection (b), re-
gardless of whether the communication was
made in concert or cooperation with or at
the request or suggestion of a foreign gov-
ernment or foreign political party.’’.
SA 730. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title V, add the
following:
SEC. 520. EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENT OF
LEAVE IN CONNECTION WITH
BIRTHS AND ADOPTIONS.
(a) PRIMARY CAREGIVER LEAVE IN CONNEC-
TION WITH BIRTH OR ADOPTION.—Subsection
(i) of section 701 of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘the
primary’’ and inserting ‘‘a primary’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘the primary’’ and inserting
‘‘a primary’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘six weeks’’ and inserting
‘‘12 weeks’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(C) More than one individual may be des-
ignated as a primary caregiver under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) in connection with a
birth or adoption.’’;
(2) in paragraph (3), by inserting before the
period at the end the following: ‘‘, and the
criteria to be used in designating individuals
as primary caregivers for purposes of para-
graph (1)’’;
(3) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘leave—’’
and all that follows and inserting ‘‘leave is
specifically recommended, in writing, by the
medical provided of the member to address a
diagnosed medical condition.’’;
(4) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through
(10) as paragraphs (7) through (11), respec-
tively; and
(5) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (6):
‘‘(6)(A) Leave of a member under paragraph
(1) or (4) terminates on the date of death of
the child concerned.
‘‘(B) Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be
construed to terminate the eligibility of a
member for emergency leave under section
709 of this title in connection with a death
described in that subparagraph.’’.
(b) SECONDARY CAREGIVER LEAVE IN CON-
NECTION WITH BIRTH OR ADOPTION.—Sub-
section (j) of such section is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘the secondary caregiver’’
and inserting ‘‘a secondary caregiver’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘21 days’’ and inserting ‘‘12
weeks’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘More than one individual may be
designated as a secondary caregiver under
this paragraph in connection with a birth or
adoption.’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the
period at the end the following: ‘‘, and the
criteria to be used in designating individuals
as secondary caregivers for purposes of para-
graph (1)’’;
(3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (5);
(4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (4):
‘‘(4)(A) Leave of a member under paragraph
(1) terminates on the date of death of the
child concerned.
‘‘(B) Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be
construed to terminate the eligibility of a
member for emergency leave under section
709 of this title in connection with a death
described in that subparagraph.’’; and
(5) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by
paragraph (3) of this subsection—
(A) by striking ‘‘paragraphs (6) through
(10)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs (7) through
(11)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘paragraph (9)(B)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘paragraph (10)(B)’’.
SA 731. Mr. WYDEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle G of title XII, add
the following:
SEC. 1290. INVESTIGATION AND REPORT ON
ISSUANCE OF PASSPORTS AND
TRAVEL DOCUMENTS TO CITIZENS
OF SAUDI ARABIA IN THE UNITED
STATES.
(a) INVESTIGATION.—The Secretary of State
shall conduct an investigation on the
issuance by the Government of Saudi Arabia
of passports and other travel documents to
citizens of Saudi Arabia in the United
States.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a re-
port on the results of the investigation under
subsection (a).
(2) MATTER TO BE INCLUDED.—The report re-
quired by paragraph (1) shall include, with
respect to the manner in which passports
and travel documents are issued to citizens
of Saudi Arabia in the United States, an as-
sessment whether the Government of Saudi
Arabia is in compliance with its obligations
under—
(A) the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations, done at Vienna April 18, 1961; or
(B) the Vienna Convention on Consular Re-
lations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963.
SA 732. Mr. WARNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title X, insert
the following:
SEC. lll. ADVANCE BILLING FOR BACK-
GROUND INVESTIGATION SERVICES
WITH WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
During fiscal year 2020, any advance billing
for background investigation services and re-
lated services purchased from activities fi-
nanced using Defense Working Capital Funds
shall be excluded from the calculation of cu-
mulative advance billings under section
2208(l)(3) of title 10, United States Code.
SA 733. Mr. DAINES (for himself and
Mr. TESTER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in subtitle H of
title X, insert the following:
SEC. llll. LITTLE SHELL TRIBE OF CHIPPEWA
INDIANS OF MONTANA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indi-
ans is a political successor to signatories of
the Pembina Treaty of 1863, under which a
large area of land in the State of North Da-
kota was ceded to the United States;
(2) the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa
of North Dakota and the Chippewa-Cree
Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation of
Montana, which also are political successors
to the signatories of the Pembina Treaty of
1863, have been recognized by the Federal
Government as distinct Indian tribes;
(3) the members of the Little Shell Tribe
continue to live in the State of Montana, as
their ancestors have for more than 100 years
since ceding land in the State of North Da-
kota as described in paragraph (1);
(4) in the 1930s and 1940s, the Tribe repeat-
edly petitioned the Federal Government for
reorganization under the Act of June 18, 1934
(25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as
the ‘‘Indian Reorganization Act’’);
(5) Federal agents who visited the Tribe
and Commissioner of Indian Affairs John
Collier attested to the responsibility of the
Federal Government for the Tribe and mem-
bers of the Tribe, concluding that members
of the Tribe are eligible for, and should be
provided with, trust land, making the Tribe
eligible for reorganization under the Act of
June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Indian Reorganization
Act’’);
(6) due to a lack of Federal appropriations
during the Depression, the Bureau of Indian
Affairs lacked adequate financial resources
to purchase land for the Tribe, and the mem-
bers of the Tribe were denied the oppor-
tunity to reorganize;
(7) in spite of the failure of the Federal
Government to appropriate adequate funding
to secure land for the Tribe as required for
reorganization under the Act of June 18, 1934
(25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as
the ‘‘Indian Reorganization Act’’), the Tribe
continued to exist as a separate community,
with leaders exhibiting clear political au-
thority;
(8) the Tribe, together with the Turtle
Mountain Band of Chippewa of North Dakota
and the Chippewa-Cree Tribe of the Rocky
Boy’s Reservation of Montana, filed 2 law
suits under the Act of August 13, 1946 (60
Stat. 1049) (commonly known as the ‘‘Indian
Claims Commission Act’’), to petition for ad-
ditional compensation for land ceded to the
United States under the Pembina Treaty of
1863 and the McCumber Agreement of 1892;
(9) in 1971 and 1982, pursuant to Acts of
Congress, the tribes received awards for the
claims described in paragraph (8);
(10) in 1978, the Tribe submitted to the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs a petition for Federal
recognition, which is still pending as of the
date of enactment of this Act; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.068 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3758 June 18, 2019
(11) the Federal Government, the State of
Montana, and the other federally recognized
Indian tribes of the State have had contin-
uous dealings with the recognized political
leaders of the Tribe since the 1930s.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MEMBER.—The term ‘‘member’’ means
an individual who is enrolled in the Tribe
pursuant to subsection (f).
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3) TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Tribe’’ means the
Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of
Montana.
(c) FEDERAL RECOGNITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Federal recognition is ex-
tended to the Tribe.
(2) EFFECT OF FEDERAL LAWS.—Except as
otherwise provided in this section, all Fed-
eral laws (including regulations) of general
application to Indians and Indian tribes, in-
cluding the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C.
5101 et seq.) (commonly known as the ‘‘In-
dian Reorganization Act’’), shall apply to the
Tribe and members.
(d) FEDERAL SERVICES AND BENEFITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act, the Tribe and each
member shall be eligible for all services and
benefits provided by the United States to In-
dians and federally recognized Indian tribes,
without regard to—
(A) the existence of a reservation for the
Tribe; or
(B) the location of the residence of any
member on or near an Indian reservation.
(2) SERVICE AREA.—For purposes of the de-
livery of services and benefits to members,
the service area of the Tribe shall be consid-
ered to be the area comprised of Blaine, Cas-
cade, Glacier, and Hill Counties in the State
of Montana.
(e) REAFFIRMATION OF RIGHTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section di-
minishes any right or privilege of the Tribe
or any member that existed before the date
of enactment of this Act.
(2) CLAIMS OF TRIBE.—Except as otherwise
provided in this section, nothing in this sec-
tion alters or affects any legal or equitable
claim of the Tribe to enforce any right or
privilege reserved by, or granted to, the
Tribe that was wrongfully denied to, or
taken from, the Tribe before the date of en-
actment of this Act.
(f) MEMBERSHIP ROLL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As a condition of receiv-
ing recognition, services, and benefits pursu-
ant to this section, the Tribe shall submit to
the Secretary, by not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, a
membership roll consisting of the name of
each individual enrolled as a member of the
Tribe.
(2) DETERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP.—The
qualifications for inclusion on the member-
ship roll of the Tribe shall be determined in
accordance with sections 1 through 3 of arti-
cle 5 of the constitution of the Tribe dated
September 10, 1977 (including amendments to
the constitution).
(3) MAINTENANCE OF ROLL.—The Tribe shall
maintain the membership roll under this
subsection.
(g) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(1) HOMELAND.—The Secretary shall ac-
quire, for the benefit of the Tribe, trust title
to 200 acres of land within the service area of
the Tribe to be used for a tribal land base.
(2) ADDITIONAL LAND.—The Secretary may
acquire additional land for the benefit of the
Tribe pursuant to section 5 of the Act of
June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5108) (commonly
known as the ‘‘Indian Reorganization Act’’).
SA 734. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. PROHIBITION ON NUCLEAR EXPORTS
TO SAUDI ARABIA.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no nuclear material, whether for civil-
ian or military applications, or related tech-
nology or intellectual property, may be ex-
ported from the United States to Saudi Ara-
bia, and no license or other authorization
may be issued by any Federal agency for
such export.
SA 735. Mr. CORNYN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title III, add the
following:
SEC. llll. REPORT ON EFFECT OF WIND TUR-
BINE PROJECTS ON SAFETY, TRAIN-
ING, AND READINESS OF AIR FORCE
PILOTS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Air Force shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives and publish on a publicly
available Internet website of the Department
of the Air Force a report on the cumulative
effect of wind turbine projects on the safety,
training, and readiness of Air Force pilots.
SA 736. Mr. BURR (for himself and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in subtitle F of
title V, insert the following:
SEC. ll. TASK FORCE.
Section 658H of the Child Care and Devel-
opment Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C.
9858f) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (j) as sub-
section (k);
(2) in subsection (d)(2)(A), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (j)(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection
(k)(1)’’; and
(3) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) TASK FORCE TO ASSIST IN IMPROVING
CHILD SAFETY.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
a task force, to be known as the Interagency
Task Force for Child Safety (referred to in
this section as the ‘Task Force’) to identify,
evaluate, and recommend best practices and
technical assistance to assist Federal and
State agencies in fully implementing the re-
quirements of subsection (b) for child care
staff members.
‘‘(2) COMPOSITION.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020, the President shall appoint the mem-
bers of the Task Force, which shall include—
‘‘(A) the Director of the Office of Child
Care of the Department of Health and
Human Services, the Associate Commis-
sioner of the Children’s Bureau of the De-
partment of Health and Human Services, the
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, or their designees; and
‘‘(B) such other Federal officials as may be
designated by the President.
‘‘(3) CHAIRPERSON.—The chairperson of the
Task Force shall be the Assistant Secretary
of the Administration for Children and Fam-
ilies.
‘‘(4) CONSULTATION.—The Task Force shall
consult with representatives from State
child care agencies, State child protective
services, State criminal justice agencies, and
other relevant stakeholders on identifying
problems in implementing, and proposing so-
lutions to implement, the requirements of
subsection (b), as described in that sub-
section.
‘‘(5) TASK FORCE DUTIES.—The Task Force
shall—
‘‘(A) develop recommendations for improv-
ing implementation of the requirements of
subsection (b), including recommendations
about how the Task Force and member agen-
cies will collaborate and coordinate efforts
to implement such requirements, as de-
scribed in subsection (b); and
‘‘(B) develop recommendations in which
the Task Force identifies best practices and
evaluates technical assistance to assist rel-
evant Federal and State agencies in imple-
menting subsection (b), which identification
and evaluation shall include—
‘‘(i) an analysis of available research and
information at the Federal and State level
regarding the status of the interstate re-
quirements of subsection (b) for child care
staff members who have resided in one or
more States during the previous 5 years and
who seek employment in a child care pro-
gram in a different State;
‘‘(ii) a list of State agencies that are not
responding to interstate requests covered by
subsection (b) for relevant information on
child care staff members;
‘‘(iii) identification of the challenges State
agencies are experiencing in responding to
such interstate requests;
‘‘(iv) an analysis of the length of time it
takes the State agencies in a State to re-
ceive such results from State agencies in an-
other State in response to such an interstate
request in accordance with subsection (b);
‘‘(v) an analysis of the average processing
time for the interstate requests, in accord-
ance with subsection (b);
‘‘(vi) identification of the fees associated
with the interstate requests in each State to
meet requirements in accordance with sub-
section (b);
‘‘(vii) a list of States that are participating
in the National Fingerprint File program, as
administered by the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, and an analysis of reasons States
have or have not chosen to participate in the
program, including barriers to participation
such as barriers related to State regulatory
requirements and statutes; and
‘‘(viii) a list of States that have closed
record laws or systems that prevent the
States from sharing complete criminal
records data or information with State agen-
cies in another State.
‘‘(6) MEETINGS.—Not later than 3 months
after the date of enactment of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020, the Task Force shall hold its first meet-
ing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.089 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3759
June 18, 2019
‘‘(7) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 year
after the first meeting of the Task Force, the
Task Force shall submit to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate, and the Committee on Education
and Labor of the House of Representatives a
final report containing all of the rec-
ommendations required by subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of paragraph (5).
‘‘(8) SUNSET.—The Task Force shall termi-
nate 1 year after submitting its final report,
but not later than the end of fiscal year
2021.’’.
SA 737. Mr. BURR submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 351(b)(2), after subparagraph (C),
insert the following:
(D) The investment necessary to leverage
existing local workforce development pro-
grams, including apprenticeship opportuni-
ties, to sustain an adequate workforce pipe-
line.
SA 738. Mr. REED (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. llll. REPORT ON IMPACT OF LIBERIAN
NATIONALS ON THE NATIONAL SE-
CURITY, FOREIGN POLICY, AND ECO-
NOMIC AND HUMANITARIAN INTER-
ESTS OF THE UNITED STATES AND A
JUSTIFICATION FOR ADJUSTMENT
OF STATUS OF QUALIFYING LIBE-
RIANS TO THAT OF LAWFUL PERMA-
NENT RESIDENTS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) In 1989, a seven-year civil war broke out
in Liberia that—
(A) claimed the lives of an estimated
200,000 people;
(B) displaced over 1⁄2 of the Liberian popu-
lation;
(C) halted food production; and
(D) destroyed the infrastructure and econ-
omy of Liberia.
(2) A second civil war then followed from
1999 to 2003, further destabilizing Liberia and
creating more turmoil and hardship for Libe-
rians.
(3) In total, the two civil wars in Liberia
killed up to an estimated 1⁄4 million individ-
uals.
(4) From 2014 to 2016, Liberia faced an
Ebola virus outbreak that devastated the
fragile health system of Liberia and killed
nearly 5,000 individuals.
(5) As a result of these devastating events,
thousands of Liberians sought refuge in the
United States, living and working here under
Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and De-
ferred Enforced Departure (DED), extended
under both Republican and Democratic ad-
ministrations beginning in 1991 with the ad-
ministration of President George H. W. Bush.
(6) These law-abiding and taxpaying Libe-
rians have made homes in the United States,
have worked hard, played by the rules, paid
their dues, and submitted to rigorous vet-
ting. Many such Liberians have United
States citizen children who have served in
the Armed Forces, and in some cases have
themselves served in that capacity.
(7) The Liberian community in the United
States has also contributed greatly to pri-
vate sector investment and socioeconomic
assistance in Liberia by providing remit-
tances to relatives in Liberia.
(8) While there was a positive development
in 2017 with the first democratic transfer of
power in more than 70 years, the Department
of State has identified the capital and most
populous city of Liberia, Monrovia, as being
a critical-threat location for crime. Access
to healthcare remains limited, critical infra-
structure is lacking, and widespread corrup-
tion coupled with low wages and a weak eco-
nomic recovery has left the country vulner-
able to civil unrest.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
31, 2019, the Secretary of Defense, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report on the impact of Liberian na-
tionals on the national security, foreign pol-
icy, and economic, and humanitarian inter-
ests of the United States and a justification
for adjustment of status of qualifying Libe-
rians to that of lawful permanent residents.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The number of current or former Libe-
rian nationals and their children who have
served or are currently serving in the Armed
Forces.
(B) The amount of remittances sent by cur-
rent or former Liberian nationals to rel-
atives in Liberia and an assessment of the
impact on the economic development of Li-
beria if these remittances were to cease.
(C) The economic and tax contributions
that Liberian nationals and their children
have made to the United States.
(D) An assessment of the impact on the
United States of adjusting the status of Li-
berian nationals who have continuous phys-
ical presence in the United States beginning
on November 20, 2014, and ending on the date
of the enactment of this Act, or for adjusting
the status of the spouses, children, and un-
married sons or daughters of such Liberian
nationals.
(c) QUALIFYING LIBERIAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In this section, the term
‘‘qualifying Liberian’’ means and alien (as
defined in section 101(a) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)) who—
(A)(i) is a national of Liberia; and
(ii) has been continuously present in the
United States during the period beginning on
November 20, 2014, and ending on the date of
the enactment of this Act;
(B) is the spouse, child, or unmarried son
or daughter of an alien described in subpara-
graph (A);
(C) is otherwise eligible to receive an im-
migrant visa; and
(D) is admissible to the United States for
permanent residence, except that the
grounds of inadmissibility specified in para-
graphs (4), (5), (6)(A), and (7)(A) of section
212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)) shall not apply.
(2) EXCEPTIONS.—The term ‘‘qualifying Li-
berian’’ does not include any alien who—
(A) has been convicted of any aggravated
felony;
(B) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes
involving moral turpitude (other than a
purely political offense); or
(C) has ordered, incited, assisted, or other-
wise participated in the persecution of any
person on account of race, religion, nation-
ality, membership in a particular social
group, or political opinion.
(3) DETERMINATION OF CONTINUOUS PHYSICAL
PRESENCE.—For purposes of establishing the
period of continuous physical presence re-
ferred to in paragraph (1)(A)(ii), an alien
shall not be considered to have failed to
maintain continuous physical presence based
on 1 or more absences from the United
States for 1 or more periods amounting, in
the aggregate, to not more than 180 days.
SA 739. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle C of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 333. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESTORATION
OF TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE.
It is the sense of Congress that the Sec-
retary of the Air Force should—
(1) restore Tyndall Air Force Base to
achieve military installation resilience, as
defined in section 101(e)(8) of title 10, United
States Code; and
(2) use innovative construction methods,
materials, designs, and technologies in car-
rying out such restoration in order to
achieve efficiencies, cost savings, resiliency,
and capability, which may include—
(A) open architecture design to evolve with
the national defense strategy; and
(B) efficient ergonomic enterprise for
members of the Air Force in the 21st cen-
tury.
SA 740. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and
Mr. REED) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike part III of subtitle D of title V.
Strike section 585.
Strike section 587.
Strike section 642.
On page 293, line 2, strike ‘‘January 1, 2020’’
and insert ‘‘January 1, 2030’’.
Strike section 1203 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 1203. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF PROGRAM
AUTHORITY AND AVAILABILITY OF
FUNDS FOR GLOBAL SECURITY CON-
TINGENCY FUND.
Section 1207 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (22
U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (i)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2021’’; and
(B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as
follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.075 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3760 June 18, 2019
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Amounts appropriated
and transferred to the Fund before Sep-
tember 30, 2019, shall remain available for ob-
ligation and expenditure after that date, but
only for activities under programs com-
menced under subsection (b) before Sep-
tember 30, 2019.’’; and
(2) in subsection (o)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2021’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘through 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2021’’.
Strike section 1422.
SA 741. Mr. INHOFE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 108ll. PENSACOLA DAM AND RESERVOIR,
GRAND RIVER, OKLAHOMA.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to clarify Federal authorities and respon-
sibilities relating to the Pensacola Dam and
Reservoir.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission.
(2) CONSERVATION POOL.—The term ‘‘con-
servation pool’’ means all land and water of
Grand Lake O’ the Cherokees, Oklahoma,
below elevation 745 feet (Pensacola Datum).
(3) FLOOD POOL.—The term ‘‘flood pool’’
means all land and water of Grand Lake O’
the Cherokees, Oklahoma, between elevation
745 feet and elevation 755 feet (Pensacola
Datum).
(4) PROJECT.—The term ‘‘project’’ means
the Pensacola Hydroelectric Project (FERC
No. 1494).
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Army.
(c) CONSERVATION POOL MANAGEMENT.—
(1) FEDERAL LAND.—Notwithstanding sec-
tion 3(2) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C.
796(2)), Federal land within the project, in-
cluding any right, title, or interest in or to
land held by the United States for any pur-
pose, shall not be considered to be—
(A) a reservation for purposes of section
4(e) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 797(e));
(B) land or other property of the United
States for purposes of recompensing the
United States for the use, occupancy, or en-
joyment of the land under section 10(e)(1) of
that Act (16 U.S.C. 803(e)(1)); or
(C) land of the United States for purposes
of section 24 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 818).
(2) LICENSE CONDITIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Commission shall
not include in any license for the project any
condition or other requirement relating to—
(i) surface elevations of the conservation
pool;
(ii) flood pool (except to the extent it ref-
erences flood control requirements pre-
scribed by the Secretary of the Army); or
(iii) land or water above an elevation of 750
feet (Pensacola Datum).
(B) EXCEPTION.—Nothwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A)(i), the Commission shall, in
consultation with the licensee, prescribe
flexible target surface elevations of the con-
servation pool to the extent necessary for
the protection of life, health, property, or
the environment.
(3) PROJECT SCOPE.—
(A) LICENSING JURISDICTION.—The licensing
jurisdiction of the Commission for the
project shall not extend to any land or water
outside the project boundary.
(B) OUTSIDE INFRASTRUCTURE.—Any land,
water, or physical infrastructure or other
improvement outside the project boundary
shall not be considered to be part of the
project.
(C) BOUNDARY AMENDMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
amend the project boundary only on request
of the project licensee.
(ii) DENIAL OF REQUEST.—The Commission
may deny a request to amend a project
boundary under clause (i) if the Commission
determines that the request is inconsistent
with the requirements of part I of the Fed-
eral Power Act (16 U.S.C. 792 et seq.).
(d) FLOOD POOL MANAGEMENT.—
(1) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the Sec-
retary shall have exclusive jurisdiction and
responsibility for management of the flood
pool for flood control operations at Grand
Lake O’ the Cherokees.
(2) PROPERTY ACQUISITION.—If a feasibility
study or other investigation determines that
flood control operations at or associated
with Pensacola Dam, including any back-
water effect, may result in the inundation of,
or damage to, land outside the project
boundary to which the United States does
not hold flowage rights or holds insufficient
flowage rights, the project licensee shall not
have any obligation to obtain or enhance
those flowage rights.
(e) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section affects, with respect to the project—
(1) any authority or obligation of the Sec-
retary or the Chief of Engineers pursuant to
section 2 of the Act of June 28, 1938 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Flood Control Act of
1938’’) (33 U.S.C. 701c–1);
(2) any authority of the Secretary or the
Chief of Engineers pursuant to section 7 of
the Act of December 22, 1944 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Flood Control Act of 1944’’)
(33 U.S.C. 709);
(3) any obligation of the United States to
obtain flowage or other property rights pur-
suant to the Act of July 31, 1946 (60 Stat. 743,
chapter 710);
(4) any obligation of the United States to
acquire flowage or other property rights for
additional reservoir storage pursuant to Ex-
ecutive Order 9839 (12 Fed. Reg. 2447; relating
to the Grand River Dam Project);
(5) any authority of the Secretary to ac-
quire real property interest pursuant to sec-
tion 560 of the Water Resources Development
Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–303; 110 Stat.
3783);
(6) any obligation of the Secretary to con-
duct and pay the cost of a feasibility study
pursuant to section 449 of the Water Re-
sources Development Act of 2000 (Public Law
106–541; 114 Stat. 2641);
(7) the National Flood Insurance Program
established under the National Flood Insur-
ance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), in-
cluding any policy issued under that Act; or
(8) any disaster assistance made available
under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.) or other Federal disaster assist-
ance program.
SA 742. Mr. MARKEY (for himself
and Mr. TESTER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1086. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF
QUALITY RATING SYSTEM FOR COM-
MUNITY LIVING CENTERS OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct a review
of the quality rating system for community
living centers operated by the Department of
Veterans Affairs.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The review conducted
under subsection (a) shall include an assess-
ment of the following:
(1) The data and information that underlie
the quality ratings for community living
centers operated by the Department.
(2) Trends in quality for such community
living centers.
(3) The use of quality ratings by the De-
partment to conduct oversight of such com-
munity living centers.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than January 1,
2021, the Comptroller General shall submit to
Congress a report on the results of the re-
view conducted under subsection (a).
SA 743. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of part II of subtitle F of title
V, add the following:
SEC. 582. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR THE
MY CAREER ADVANCEMENT AC-
COUNT PROGRAM TO CERTAIN MILI-
TARY SPOUSES.
(a) ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPANTS WHOSE
SPOUSES RECEIVE PROMOTIONS.—A military
spouse who is participating in the My Career
Advancement Account program of the De-
partment of Defense (in this section referred
to as the ‘‘Program’’) may not become ineli-
gible for the Program solely because the
member of the Armed Forces to whom the
military spouse is married receives a pro-
motion in grade.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
Congress a report on the Program.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An assessment of employment rates for
military spouses that identifies—
(i) the career fields most military spouses
frequently pursue; and
(ii) the extent to which such rates may be
improved by expanding the Program to in-
clude reimbursements for licensing reci-
procity.
(B) An assessment of costs required to ex-
pand the Program as described in subpara-
graph (A)(ii).
SA 744. Mr. WICKER (for himself and
Ms. CANTWELL) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:15 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.075 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3761
June 18, 2019
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike title XXXV and insert the fol-
lowing:
TITLE XXXV—MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 3501. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Maritime
Administration Authorization and Enhance-
ment Act of 2019’’.
Subtitle A—Maritime Administration
SEC. 3511. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME
ADMINISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated to the Department of Trans-
portation for fiscal year 2020, to be available
without fiscal year limitation if so provided
in appropriations Acts, for programs associ-
ated with maintaining the United States
Merchant Marine, the following amounts:
(1) For expenses necessary for operations of
the United States Merchant Marine Acad-
emy, $95,944,000, of which—
(A) $77,944,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021 for Academy operations;
and
(B) $18,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for capital asset management at
the Academy.
(2) For expenses necessary to support the
State maritime academies, $50,280,000, of
which—
(A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021, for the Student Incentive
Program;
(B) $6,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for direct payments to such acad-
emies;
(C) $30,080,000 shall remain available until
expended for maintenance and repair of
State maritime academy training vessels;
(D) $3,800,000 shall remain available until
expended for training ship fuel assistance;
and
(E) $8,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for offsetting the costs of training
ship sharing.
(3) For expenses necessary to support the
National Security Multi-Mission Vessel Pro-
gram, $600,000,000, which shall remain avail-
able until expended.
(4) For expenses necessary to support Mari-
time Administration operations and pro-
grams, $60,442,000, of which $5,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended for activities
authorized under section 50307 of title 46,
United States Code.
(5) For expenses necessary to dispose of
vessels in the National Defense Reserve
Fleet, $5,000,000, which shall remain avail-
able until expended.
(6) For expenses necessary to maintain and
preserve a United States flag Merchant Ma-
rine to serve the national security needs of
the United States under chapter 531 of title
46, United States Code, $300,000,000, which
shall remain available until expended.
(7) For expenses necessary for the loan
guarantee program authorized under chapter
537 of title 46, United States Code, $33,000,000,
of which—
(A) $30,000,000 may be used for the cost (as
defined in section 502(5) of the Federal Credit
Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5)) of loan
guarantees under the program, which shall
remain available until expended; and
(B) $3,000,000 may be used for administra-
tive expenses relating to loan guarantee
commitments under the program.
(8) For expenses necessary to provide as-
sistance to small shipyards and for maritime
training programs under section 54101 of title
46, United States Code, $40,000,000, which
shall remain available until expended.
(9) For expenses necessary to implement
the Port and Intermodal Improvement Pro-
gram, $600,000,000, except that no funds shall
be used for a grant award to purchase fully
automated cargo handling equipment that is
remotely operated or remotely monitored
with or without the exercise of human inter-
vention or control, if the Secretary deter-
mines such equipment would result in a net
loss of jobs that relate to the movement of
goods through a port and its intermodal con-
nections.
SEC. 3512. MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM.
(a) AWARD OF OPERATING AGREEMENTS.—
Section 53103 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘2025’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘2035’’.
(b) EFFECTIVENESS OF OPERATING AGREE-
MENTS.—Section 53104(a) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘2025’’
and inserting ‘‘2035’’.
(c) PAYMENTS.—Section 53106(a)(1) of title
46, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking
‘‘$3,700,000 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023,
2024, and 2025.’’ and inserting ‘‘$5,233,463 for
each of fiscal years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025;
and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) $5,233,463 for each of fiscal years 2026
through 2035.’’.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 53111 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking
‘‘$222,000,000 for each fiscal year thereafter
through fiscal year 2025.’’ and inserting
‘‘$314,007,780 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023,
2024, and 2025; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) $314,007,780 for each of fiscal years 2026
through 2035.’’.
SEC. 3513. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.
The Inspector General of the Department
of Transportation shall—
(1) not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this title, initiate an audit of
the Maritime Administration’s actions to ad-
dress only those recommendations from
Chapter 3 and recommendations 5-1, 5-2, 5-3,
5-4, 5-5, and 5-6 identified by a National
Academy of Public Administration panel in
the November 2017 report entitled ‘‘Maritime
Administration: Defining its Mission, Align-
ing its Programs, and Meeting its Objec-
tives’’; and
(2) submit to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate
and the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives a report containing the results of that
audit once the audit is completed.
SEC. 3514. APPOINTMENT OF CANDIDATES AT-
TENDING SPONSORED PRE-
PARATORY SCHOOL.
Section 51303 of title 46, United State Code,
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) APPOINTMENT OF CANDIDATES SE-
LECTED FOR PREPARATORY SCHOOL SPONSOR-
SHIP.—The Secretary of Transportation may
appoint each year as cadets at the United
States Merchant Marine Academy not more
than 40 qualified individuals sponsored by
the Academy to attend preparatory school
during the academic year prior to entrance
in the Academy, and who have successfully
met the terms and conditions of sponsorship
set by the Academy.’’.
SEC. 3515. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON THE UNITED
STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACAD-
EMY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Secretary of Transportation shall seek to
enter into an agreement with the National
Academy of Public Administration (referred
to in this section as the ‘‘Academy’’) to
carry out the activities described in this sec-
tion.
(b) STUDY ELEMENTS.—In accordance with
the agreement described in subsection (a),
the Academy shall conduct a study of the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
that consists of the following:
(1) A comprehensive assessment of the
United States Merchant Marine Academy’s
systems, training, facilities, infrastructure,
information technology, and stakeholder en-
gagement.
(2) Identification of needs and opportuni-
ties for modernization to help the United
States Merchant Marine Academy keep pace
with more modern campuses.
(3) Development of an action plan for the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
with specific recommendations for—
(A) improvements or updates relating to
the opportunities described in paragraph (2);
and
(B) systemic changes needed to help the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
achieve its mission of inspiring and edu-
cating the next generation of the mariner
workforce on a long-term basis.
(c) DEADLINE AND REPORT.—Not later than
1 year after the date of the agreement de-
scribed in subsection (a), the Academy shall
prepare and submit to the Administrator of
the Maritime Administration a report con-
taining the action plan described in sub-
section (b)(3), including specific findings and
recommendations.
SEC. 3516. GENERAL SUPPORT PROGRAM.
Section 51501 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(c) NATIONAL MARITIME CENTERS OF EX-
CELLENCE.—The Secretary shall designate
each State maritime academy as a National
Maritime Center of Excellence.’’.
SEC. 3517. MILITARY TO MARINER.
(a) CREDENTIALING SUPPORT.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this title, the Secretary of Defense, the Sec-
retary of the Department in which the Coast
Guard operates, the Secretary of Commerce,
and the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, with respect to the applicable serv-
ices in their respective departments, and in
coordination with one another and with the
United States Committee on the Marine
Transportation System, and in consultation
with the Merchant Marine Personnel Advi-
sory Committee, shall, consistent with appli-
cable law, identify all training and experi-
ence within the applicable service that may
qualify for merchant mariner credentialing,
and submit a list of all identified training
and experience to the United States Coast
Guard National Maritime Center for a deter-
mination of whether such training and expe-
rience counts for credentialing purposes.
(b) REVIEW OF APPLICABLE SERVICE.—The
United States Coast Guard Commandant
shall make a determination of whether
training and experience counts for
credentialing purposes, as described in sub-
section (a), not later than 6 months after the
date on which the United States Coast Guard
National Maritime Center receives a submis-
sion under subsection (a) identifying a train-
ing or experience and requesting such a de-
termination.
(c) FEES AND SERVICES.—The Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of the Department in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3762 June 18, 2019
which the Coast Guard operates, and the
Secretary of Commerce, with respect to the
applicable services in their respective de-
partments, shall—
(1) take all necessary and appropriate ac-
tions to provide for the waiver of fees
through the National Maritime Center li-
cense evaluation, issuance, and examination
for members of the uniformed services on ac-
tive duty, if a waiver is authorized and ap-
propriate, and, if a waiver is not granted,
take all necessary and appropriate actions to
provide for the payment of fees for members
of the uniformed services on active duty by
the applicable service to the fullest extent
permitted by law;
(2) direct the applicable services to take all
necessary and appropriate actions to provide
for Transportation Worker Identification
Credential cards for members of the uni-
formed services on active duty pursuing or
possessing a mariner credential, such as im-
plementation of an equal exchange process
for active duty service members at no or
minimal cost;
(3) ensure that members of the applicable
services who are to be discharged or released
from active duty and who request certifi-
cation or verification of sea service be pro-
vided such certification or verification no
later than one month after discharge or re-
lease;
(4) ensure the applicable services have de-
veloped, or continue to operate, as appro-
priate, the online resource known as
Credentialing Opportunities On-Line to sup-
port separating members of the uniformed
services who are seeking information and as-
sistance on merchant mariner credentialing;
and
(5) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this section, take all necessary
and appropriate actions to review and imple-
ment service-related medical certifications
to merchant mariner credential require-
ments.
(d) ADVANCING MILITARY TO MARINER WITH-
IN THE EMPLOYER AGENCIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
the Secretary of the Department in which
the Coast Guard operates, and the Secretary
of Commerce shall have direct hiring author-
ity to employ separated members of the uni-
formed services with valid merchant mariner
licenses or sea service experience in support
of United States national maritime needs,
including the Army Corps of Engineers, U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
(2) APPOINTMENTS OF RETIRED MEMBERS OF
THE ARMED FORCES.—Except in the case of po-
sitions in the Senior Executive Service, the
requirements of section 3326(b) of title 5,
United States Code, shall not apply with re-
spect to the hiring of a separated member of
the uniformed services under paragraph (1).
(e) SEPARATED MEMBER OF THE UNIFORMED
SERVICES.—In this section, the term ‘‘sepa-
rated member of the uniformed services’’
means an individual who—
(1) is retiring or is retired as a member of
the uniformed services;
(2) is voluntarily separating or voluntarily
separated from the uniformed services at the
end of enlistment or service obligation; or
(3) is administratively separating or has
administratively separated from the uni-
formed services with an honorable or general
discharge characterization.
SEC. 3518. SALVAGE RECOVERIES OF FEDERALLY
OWNED CARGOES.
Section 57100 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(h) FUNDS TRANSFER AUTHORITY RELATED
TO THE USE OF NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE
FLEET VESSELS AND THE PROVISION OF MARI-
TIME-RELATED SERVICES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—When the Secretary of
Transportation provides for the use of its
vessels or maritime-related services and
goods under a reimbursable agreement with
a Federal entity, or State or local entity, au-
thorized to receive goods and services from
the Maritime Administration for programs,
projects, activities, and expenses related to
the National Defense Reserve Fleet or mari-
time-related services:
‘‘(A) Federal entities are authorized to
transfer funds to the Secretary in advance of
expenditure or upon providing the goods or
services ordered, as determined by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(B) The Secretary shall determine all
other terms and conditions under which such
payments should be made and provide such
goods and services using its existing or new
contracts, including general agency agree-
ments, memoranda of understanding, or
similar agreements.
‘‘(2) REIMBURSABLE AGREEMENT WITH A FED-
ERAL ENTITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Maritime Adminis-
tration is authorized to provide maritime-re-
lated services and goods under a reimburs-
able agreement with a Federal entity.
‘‘(B) MARITIME-RELATED SERVICES DE-
FINED.—For the purposes of this subsection,
maritime-related services includes the acqui-
sition, procurement, operation, mainte-
nance, preservation, sale, lease, charter, con-
struction, reconstruction, or reconditioning
(including outfitting and equipping inci-
dental to construction, reconstruction, or re-
conditioning) of a merchant vessel or ship-
yard, ship site, terminal, pier, dock, ware-
house, or other installation related to the
maritime operations of a Federal entity.
‘‘(3) SALVAGING CARGOES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Maritime Adminis-
tration may provide services and purchase
goods relating to the salvaging of cargoes
aboard vessels in the custody or control of
the Maritime Administration or its prede-
cessor agencies and receive and retain reim-
bursement from Federal entities for all such
costs as it may incur.
‘‘(B) REIMBURSEMENT.—Reimbursement as
provided for in subparagraph (A) may come
from—
‘‘(i) the proceeds recovered from such sal-
vage; or
‘‘(ii) the Federal entity for which the Mari-
time Administration has or will provide such
goods and services, depending on the agree-
ment of the parties involved.
‘‘(4) AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—Amounts re-
ceived as reimbursements under this sub-
section shall be credited to the fund or ac-
count that was used to cover the costs in-
curred by the Secretary or, if the period of
availability of obligations for that appro-
priation has expired, to the appropriation of
funds that is currently available to the Sec-
retary for substantially the same purpose.
Amounts so credited shall be merged with
amounts in such fund or account and shall be
available for the same purposes, and subject
to the same conditions and limitations, as
amounts in such fund or account.
‘‘(5) ADVANCE PAYMENTS.—Payments made
in advance shall be for any part of the esti-
mated cost as determined by the Secretary
of Transportation. Adjustments to the
amounts paid in advance shall be made as
agreed to by the Secretary of Transportation
and the head of the ordering agency or unit
based on the actual cost of goods or services
provided.
‘‘(6) BILL OR REQUEST FOR PAYMENT.—A bill
submitted or a request for payment is not
subject to audit or certification in advance
of payment.’’.
SEC. 3519. SALVAGE RECOVERIES FOR SUB-
ROGATED OWNERSHIP OF VESSELS
AND CARGOES.
Section 53909 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(e) SALVAGE AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary
of Transportation is authorized to enter into
marine salvage agreements for the recov-
eries, sale, and disposal of sunken or dam-
aged vessels, cargoes, or properties owned or
insured by or on behalf of the Maritime Ad-
ministration, the United States Shipping
Board, the U.S. Shipping Bureau, the United
States Maritime Commission, or the War
Shipping Administration.
‘‘(f) MILITARY CRAFT.—The Secretary of
Transportation shall consult with the Sec-
retary of the military department concerned
prior to engaging in or authorizing any ac-
tivity under subsection (e) that will disturb
sunken military craft, as defined in title XIV
of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (10
U.S.C. 113 note).
‘‘(g) RECOVERIES.—Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the net proceeds from sal-
vage agreements entered into as authorized
in subsection (e) shall remain available until
expended and be distributed as follows for
marine insurance-related salvages:
‘‘(1) Fifty percent of the net funds recov-
ered shall be deposited in the war risk re-
volving fund and shall be available for the
purposes of the war risk revolving fund.
‘‘(2) Fifty percent of the net funds recov-
ered shall be deposited in the Vessel Oper-
ations Revolving Fund as established by sec-
tion 50301(a) of this title and shall be avail-
able until expended as follows:
‘‘(A) Fifty percent shall be available to the
Administrator of the Maritime Administra-
tion for such acquisition, maintenance, re-
pair, reconditioning, or improvement of ves-
sels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet as
is authorized under other Federal law.
‘‘(B) Twenty-five percent shall be available
to the Administrator of the Maritime Ad-
ministration for the payment or reimburse-
ment of expenses incurred by or on behalf of
State maritime academies or the United
States Merchant Marine Academy for facil-
ity and training ship maintenance, repair,
and modernization, and for the purchase of
simulators and fuel.
‘‘(C) The remainder shall be distributed for
maritime heritage preservation to the De-
partment of the Interior for grants as au-
thorized by section 308703 of title 54.’’.
SEC. 3520. PORT OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND
TECHNOLOGY.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Ports Improvement Act’’.
(b) PORT AND INTERMODAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM.—Section 50302 of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking sub-
section (c) and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) PORT AND INTERMODAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Subject to the
availability of appropriations, the Secretary
of Transportation shall make grants, on a
competitive basis, to eligible applicants to
assist in funding eligible projects for the pur-
pose of improving the safety, efficiency, or
reliability of the movement of goods through
ports and intermodal connections to ports.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE APPLICANT.—The Secretary
may make a grant under this subsection to
the following:
‘‘(A) A State.
‘‘(B) A political subdivision of a State, or a
local government.
‘‘(C) A public agency or publicly chartered
authority established by 1 or more States.
‘‘(D) A special purpose district with a
transportation function.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3763
June 18, 2019
‘‘(E) An Indian Tribe (as defined in section
4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304), with-
out regard to capitalization), or a consor-
tium of Indian Tribes.
‘‘(F) A multistate or multijurisdictional
group of entities described in this paragraph.
‘‘(G) A lead entity described in subpara-
graph (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) jointly
with a private entity or group of private en-
tities.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—The Secretary
may make a grant under this subsection—
‘‘(A) for a project, or package of projects,
that—
‘‘(i) is either—
‘‘(I) within the boundary of a port; or
‘‘(II) outside the boundary of a port, but is
directly related to port operations or to an
intermodal connection to a port; and
‘‘(ii) will be used to improve the safety, ef-
ficiency, or reliability of—
‘‘(I) the loading and unloading of goods at
the port, such as for marine terminal equip-
ment;
‘‘(II) the movement of goods into, out of,
around, or within a port, such as for highway
or rail infrastructure, intermodal facilities,
freight intelligent transportation systems,
and digital infrastructure systems; or
‘‘(III) environmental mitigation measures
and operational improvements directly re-
lated to enhancing the efficiency of ports
and intermodal connections to ports; or
‘‘(B) notwithstanding paragraph (6)(A)(v),
to provide financial assistance to 1 or more
projects under subparagraph (A) for develop-
ment phase activities, including planning,
feasibility analysis, revenue forecasting, en-
vironmental review, permitting, and prelimi-
nary engineering and design work.
‘‘(4) PROHIBITED USES.—A grant award
under this subsection may not be used—
‘‘(A) to finance or refinance the construc-
tion, reconstruction, reconditioning, or pur-
chase of a vessel that is eligible for such as-
sistance under chapter 537, unless the Sec-
retary determines such vessel—
‘‘(i) is necessary for a project described in
paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(III) of this subsection;
and
‘‘(ii) is not receiving assistance under
chapter 537; or
‘‘(B) for any project within a small ship-
yard (as defined in section 54101).
‘‘(5) APPLICATIONS AND PROCESS.—
‘‘(A) APPLICATIONS.—To be eligible for a
grant under this subsection, an eligible ap-
plicant shall submit to the Secretary an ap-
plication in such form, at such time, and
containing such information as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate.
‘‘(B) SOLICITATION PROCESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date that amounts are made
available for grants under this subsection for
a fiscal year, the Secretary shall solicit
grant applications for eligible projects in ac-
cordance with this subsection.
‘‘(6) PROJECT SELECTION CRITERIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may se-
lect a project described in paragraph (3) for
funding under this subsection if the Sec-
retary determines that—
‘‘(i) the project improves the safety, effi-
ciency, or reliability of the movement of
goods through a port or intermodal connec-
tion to a port;
‘‘(ii) the project is cost effective;
‘‘(iii) the eligible applicant has authority
to carry out the project;
‘‘(iv) the eligible applicant has sufficient
funding available to meet the matching re-
quirements under paragraph (8);
‘‘(v) the project will be completed without
unreasonable delay; and
‘‘(vi) the project cannot be easily and effi-
ciently completed without Federal funding
or financial assistance available to the
project sponsor.
‘‘(B) ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS.—In se-
lecting projects described in paragraph (3)
for funding under this subsection, the Sec-
retary shall give substantial weight to—
‘‘(i) the utilization of non-Federal con-
tributions;
‘‘(ii) the net benefits of the funds awarded
under this subsection, considering the cost-
benefit analysis of the project, as applicable;
and
‘‘(iii) the public benefits of the funds
awarded under this subsection.
‘‘(C) SMALL PROJECTS.—The Secretary may
waive the cost-benefit analysis under sub-
paragraph (A)(ii), and establish a simplified,
alternative basis for determining whether a
project is cost effective, for a small project
described in paragraph (7)(B).
‘‘(7) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(A) GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION.—Not more
than 25 percent of the amounts made avail-
able for grants under this subsection for a
fiscal year may be used to make grants for
projects in any 1 State.
‘‘(B) SMALL PROJECTS.—The Secretary shall
reserve 25 percent of the amounts made
available for grants under this subsection
each fiscal year to make grants for eligible
projects described in paragraph (3)(A) that
request the lesser of—
‘‘(i) 10 percent of the amounts made avail-
able for grants under this subsection for a
fiscal year; or
‘‘(ii) $11,000,000.
‘‘(C) DEVELOPMENT PHASE ACTIVITIES.—Not
more than 10 percent of the amounts made
available for grants under this subsection for
a fiscal year may be used to make grants for
development phase activities under para-
graph (3)(B).
‘‘(8) FEDERAL SHARE OF TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS.—
‘‘(A) TOTAL PROJECT COSTS.—To be eligible
for a grant under this subsection, an eligible
applicant shall submit to the Secretary an
estimate of the total costs of a project under
this subsection based on the best available
information, including any available engi-
neering studies, studies of economic feasi-
bility, environmental analyses, and informa-
tion on the expected use of equipment or fa-
cilities.
‘‘(B) FEDERAL SHARE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the Federal share of the total
costs of a project under this subsection shall
not exceed 80 percent.
‘‘(ii) RURAL AREAS.—The Secretary may in-
crease the Federal share of costs above 80
percent for a project located in a rural area.
‘‘(9) PROCEDURAL SAFEGUARDS.—The Sec-
retary shall issue guidelines to establish ap-
propriate accounting, reporting, and review
procedures to ensure that—
‘‘(A) grant funds are used for the purposes
for which those funds were made available;
‘‘(B) each grantee properly accounts for all
expenditures of grant funds; and
‘‘(C) grant funds not used for such purposes
and amounts not obligated or expended are
returned.
‘‘(10) CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall re-
quire as a condition of making a grant under
this subsection that a grantee—
‘‘(i) maintain such records as the Secretary
considers necessary;
‘‘(ii) make the records described in clause
(i) available for review and audit by the Sec-
retary; and
‘‘(iii) periodically report to the Secretary
such information as the Secretary considers
necessary to assess progress.
‘‘(B) LABOR.—The Federal wage rate re-
quirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of
title 40 shall apply, in the same manner as
such requirements apply to contracts subject
to such subchapter, to—
‘‘(i) each project for which a grant is pro-
vided under this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) all portions of a project described in
clause (i), regardless of whether such a por-
tion is funded using—
‘‘(I) other Federal funds; or
‘‘(II) non-Federal funds.
‘‘(11) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUC-
TION.—Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to affect existing authorities to
conduct port infrastructure programs in—
‘‘(A) Hawaii, as authorized by section 9008
of the SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109–59;
119 Stat. 1926);
‘‘(B) Alaska, as authorized by section 10205
of the SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109–59;
119 Stat. 1934); or
‘‘(C) Guam, as authorized by section 3512 of
the Duncan Hunter National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (48
U.S.C. 1421r).
‘‘(12) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(A) ADMINISTRATIVE AND OVERSIGHT
COSTS.—The Secretary may retain not more
than 2 percent of the amounts appropriated
for each fiscal year under this subsection for
the administrative and oversight costs in-
curred by the Secretary to carry out this
subsection.
‘‘(B) AVAILABILITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Amounts appropriated
for carrying out this subsection shall remain
available until expended.
‘‘(ii) UNEXPENDED FUNDS.—Amounts award-
ed as a grant under this subsection that are
not expended by the grantee during the 5-
year period following the date of the award
shall remain available to the Secretary for
use for grants under this subsection in a sub-
sequent fiscal year.
‘‘(13) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘appropriate committees
of Congress’ means—
‘‘(i) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate; and
‘‘(ii) the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives.
‘‘(B) PORT.—The term ‘port’ includes—
‘‘(i) a seaport; and
‘‘(ii) an inland waterways port.
‘‘(C) PROJECT.—The term ‘project’ includes
construction, reconstruction, environmental
rehabilitation, acquisition of property, in-
cluding land related to the project and im-
provements to the land, equipment acquisi-
tion, and operational improvements.
‘‘(D) RURAL AREA.—The term ‘rural area’
means an area that is outside an urbanized
area.
‘‘(d) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY OF THE SEC-
RETARY.—In carrying out this section, the
Secretary may—
‘‘(1) receive funds from a Federal or non-
Federal entity that has a specific agreement
with the Secretary to further the purposes of
this section;
‘‘(2) coordinate with other Federal agencies
to expedite the process established under the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for the improvement
of port facilities to improve the efficiency of
the transportation system, to increase port
security, or to provide greater access to port
facilities;
‘‘(3) seek to coordinate all reviews or re-
quirements with appropriate Federal, State,
and local agencies; and
‘‘(4) in addition to any financial assistance
provided under subsection (c), provide such
technical assistance to port authorities or
commissions or their subdivisions and agents
as needed for project planning, design, and
construction.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3764 June 18, 2019
(c) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—A repeal made by
subsection (b) of this section shall not affect
amounts apportioned or allocated before the
effective date of the repeal. Such appor-
tioned or allocated funds shall continue to be
subject to the requirements to which the
funds were subject under section 50302(c) of
title 46, United States Code, as in effect on
the day before the date of enactment of this
title.
SEC. 3521. ASSESSMENT AND REPORT ON STRA-
TEGIC SEAPORTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this title,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
on port facilities used for military purposes
at ports designated by the Department of De-
fense as strategic seaports.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include, with respect to port
facilities included in the report, the fol-
lowing:
(1) An assessment whether there are struc-
tural integrity or other deficiencies in such
facilities.
(2) If there are such deficiencies—
(A) an assessment of infrastructure im-
provements to such facilities that would be
needed to meet, directly or indirectly, na-
tional security and readiness requirements;
(B) an assessment of the impact on oper-
ational readiness of the Armed Forces if such
improvements are not undertaken; and
(C) an identification of, to the maximum
extent practical, all potential funding
sources for such improvements from existing
authorities.
(3) An identification of the support that
would be appropriate for the Department of
Defense to provide in the execution of the
Secretary of Transportation’s responsibil-
ities under section 50302 of title 46, United
States Code, with respect to such facilities.
(4) If additional statutory or administra-
tive authorities would be required for the
provision of support as described in para-
graph (3), recommendations for legislative or
administrative action to establish such au-
thorities.
(c) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall prepare the report required by
subsection (a) in consultation with the Mari-
time Administrator and the individual re-
sponsible for each port facility described in
such subsection.
SEC. 3522. MARITIME TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM.
Section 50307 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘The Sec-
retary of Transportation may engage in the
environmental study’’ and inserting ‘‘The
Maritime Administrator, on behalf of the
Secretary of Transportation, shall engage in
the study’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘may’’ and inserting ‘‘shall’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘that are likely to achieve
environmental improvements by’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘to improve’’;
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A)
through (C) as clauses (i) through (iii), re-
spectively;
(iii) by inserting before clause (i), the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) environmental performance to meet
United States Federal and international
standards and guidelines, including—’’; and
(iv) in clause (iii), as redesignated by
clause (ii), by striking ‘‘species; and’’ and all
that follows through the end of the sub-
section and inserting ‘‘species; or
‘‘(iv) reducing propeller cavitation; and
‘‘(B) the efficiency and safety of domestic
maritime industries; and
‘‘(2) coordinate with the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and
other Federal, State, local, or tribal agen-
cies, as appropriate.’’.
(3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ‘‘bene-
fits’’ and inserting ‘‘or other benefits to do-
mestic maritime industries’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) LIMITATIONS ON THE USE OF FUNDS.—.
Not more than 3 percent of funds appro-
priated to carry out this program may be
used for administrative purposes.’’.
SEC. 3523. REQUIREMENT FOR SMALL SHIPYARD
GRANTEES.
Section 54101(d) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Grants awarded’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Grants awarded’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) BUY AMERICA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), no funds may be obligated by the Admin-
istrator of the Maritime Administration
under this section, unless each product and
material purchased with those funds (includ-
ing products and materials purchased by a
grantee), and including any commercially
available off-the-shelf item, is—
‘‘(i) an unmanufactured article, material,
or supply that has been mined or produced in
the United States; or
‘‘(ii) a manufactured article, material, or
supply that has been manufactured in the
United States substantially all from articles,
materials, or supplies mined, produced, or
manufactured in the United States.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), the requirements of that sub-
paragraph shall not apply with respect to a
particular product or material if the Admin-
istrator determines—
‘‘(I) that the application of those require-
ments would be inconsistent with the public
interest;
‘‘(II) that such product or material is not
available in the United States in sufficient
and reasonably available quantities, of a sat-
isfactory quality, or on a timely basis; or
‘‘(III) that inclusion of a domestic product
or material will increase the cost of that
product or material by more than 25 percent,
with respect to a certain contract between a
grantee and that grantee’s supplier.
‘‘(ii) FEDERAL REGISTER.—A determination
made by the Administrator under this sub-
paragraph shall be published in the Federal
Register.
‘‘(C) DEFINITIONS.—ln this paragraph:
‘‘(i) The term ‘commercially available off-
the-shelf item’ means—
‘‘(I) any item of supply (including con-
struction material) that is—
‘‘(aa) a commercial item, as defined by sec-
tion 2.101 of title 48, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (as in effect on the date of enactment
of the Maritime Administration Authoriza-
tion and Enhancement Act of 2019); and
‘‘(bb) sold in substantial quantities in the
commercial marketplace; and
‘‘(II) does not include bulk cargo, as de-
fined in section 40102(4) of this title, such as
agricultural products and petroleum prod-
ucts.
‘‘(ii) The term ‘product or material’ means
an article, material, or supply brought to the
site by the recipient for incorporation into
the building, work, or project. The term also
includes an item brought to the site
preassembled from articles, materials, or
supplies. However, emergency life safety sys-
tems, such as emergency lighting, fire alarm,
and audio evacuation systems, that are dis-
crete systems incorporated into a public
building or work and that are produced as
complete systems, are evaluated as a single
and distinct construction material regard-
less of when or how the individual parts or
components of those systems are delivered to
the construction site.
‘‘(iii) The term ‘United States’ includes the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands,
Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Is-
lands.’’.
SEC. 3524. IMPROVEMENT OF NATIONAL OCEANO-
GRAPHIC PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.
(a) ADDITIONAL MEANS OF ACHIEVEMENT OF
GOALS OF PROGRAM THROUGH OCEANOGRAPHIC
EFFORTS.—Section 8931(b)(2)(A) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, creating,’’ after ‘‘identi-
fying’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘science,’’ after ‘‘areas of’’.
(b) NATIONAL OCEAN RESEARCH LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP.—Section 8932 of title
10, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (f) through
(h) as subsections (g) through (i), respec-
tively;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking paragraph (10);
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (11)
through (14) as paragraphs (12) through (15),
respectively; and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(10) The Director of the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management of the Department of
the Interior.
‘‘(11) The Director of the Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement of the De-
partment of the Interior.’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘broad
participation within the oceanographic com-
munity’’ and inserting ‘‘appropriate partici-
pation within the oceanographic community,
which may include public, academic, com-
mercial, and private participation or sup-
port’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking
‘‘peer’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking subpara-
graph (D) and inserting the following:
‘‘(D) Preexisting facilities, such as regional
data centers operated by the Integrated
Ocean Observing System, and expertise.’’;
(4) in subsection (e)—
(A) in the subsection heading by striking
‘‘REPORT’’ and inserting ‘‘BRIEFING’’;
(B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘to Congress a report’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate, the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources of the Senate, the Committee
on Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives, and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives a
briefing’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘report’’ and inserting
‘‘briefing’’ each place the term appears;
(D) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(4) A description of the involvement of
Federal agencies and non-Federal contribu-
tors participating in the program.’’; and
(E) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘and the
estimated expenditures under such pro-
grams, projects, and activities during such
following fiscal year’’ and inserting ‘‘and the
estimated expenditures under such pro-
grams, projects, and activities of the pro-
gram during such following fiscal year’’;
(5) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of
each year, the Council shall publish on a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3765
June 18, 2019
publically available website a report summa-
rizing the briefing described in subsection
(e).’’;
(6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) The Secretary of the Navy shall estab-
lish an office to support the National Ocean-
ographic Partnership Program. The Council
shall use competitive procedures in selecting
an operator for the partnership program of-
fice.’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ‘‘,
where appropriate,’’ before ‘‘managing’’; and
(7) by amending subsection (h), as redesig-
nated by paragraph (1), to read as follows:
‘‘(h) CONTRACT AND GRANT AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To carry out the pur-
poses of the National Oceanographic Part-
nership Program, the Council shall have, in
addition to other powers otherwise given it
under this chapter, the following authorities:
‘‘(A) To authorize one or more of the de-
partments or agencies represented on the
Council to enter into contracts and make
grants or cooperative agreements, and estab-
lish and manage new collaborative programs
as considered appropriate, to address emerg-
ing science priorities using both donated and
appropriated funds.
‘‘(B) To authorize the program office under
subsection (g), on behalf of and subject to
the direction and approval of the Council, to
accept funds, including fines and penalties,
from other Federal and State departments
and agencies.
‘‘(C) To authorize the program office, on
behalf of and subject to the direction and ap-
proval of the Council, to award grants and
enter into contracts for purposes of the Na-
tional Oceanographic Partnership Program.
‘‘(D) To transfer funds to other Federal and
State departments and agencies in further-
ance of the purposes of the National Oceano-
graphic Partnership Program.
‘‘(E) To authorize one or more of the de-
partments or agencies represented on the
Council to enter into contracts and make
grants, for the purpose of implementing the
National Oceanographic Partnership Pro-
gram and carrying out the responsibilities of
the Council.
‘‘(F) To use, with the consent of the head
of the agency or entity concerned, on a non-
reimbursable basis, the land, services, equip-
ment, personnel, facilities, advice, and infor-
mation provided by a Federal agency or enti-
ty, State, local government, Tribal govern-
ment, territory, or possession, or any sub-
divisions thereof, or the District of Columbia
as may be helpful in the performance of the
duties of the Council.
‘‘(2) FUNDS TRANSFERRED.—Funds identi-
fied for direct support of National Oceano-
graphic Partnership Program grants are au-
thorized for transfer between agencies and
are exempt from section 1535 of title 31,
United States Code (commonly known as the
‘‘Economy Act of 1932’’).’’.
(c) OCEAN RESEARCH ADVISORY PANEL.—
Section 8933(a)(4) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘State govern-
ments’’ and inserting ‘‘State and Tribal gov-
ernments’’.
SEC. 3525. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE MARITIME
GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 53701 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (5);
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through
(15) as paragraphs (5) through (14), respec-
tively; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(15) VESSEL OF NATIONAL INTEREST.—The
term ‘Vessel of National Interest’ means a
vessel deemed to be of national interest that
meets characteristics determined by the Ad-
ministrator, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Secretary of the De-
partment in which the Coast Guard Oper-
ates, or the heads of other Federal agencies,
as described in section 53703(d).’’.
(b) PREFERRED LENDER.—Section 53702(a) of
title 46, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) PREFERRED ELIGIBLE LENDER.—The
Federal Financing Bank shall be the pre-
ferred eligible lender of the principal and in-
terest of the guaranteed obligations issued
under this chapter.’’.
(c) APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION.—
Section 53703 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘procedures’’ and inserting ‘‘and administra-
tion’’;
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To assess and mitigate
the risks due to factors associated with mar-
kets, technology, financial, or legal struc-
tures related to an application or guarantee
under this chapter, the Secretary or Admin-
istrator may utilize third party experts, in-
cluding legal counsel, to—
‘‘(A) process and review applications under
this chapter, including conducting inde-
pendent analysis and review of aspects of an
application;
‘‘(B) represent the Secretary or Adminis-
trator in structuring and documenting the
obligation guarantee;
‘‘(C) analyze and review aspects of, struc-
ture, and document the obligation guarantee
during the term of the guarantee;
‘‘(D) recommend financial covenants or fi-
nancial ratios to be met by the applicant
during the time a guarantee under this chap-
ter is outstanding that are—
‘‘(i) based on the financial covenants or fi-
nancial ratios, if any, that are then applica-
ble to the obligor under private sector credit
agreements; and
‘‘(ii) in lieu of other financial covenants
applicable to the obligor under this chapter
with respect to requirements regarding long-
term debt-to-equity, minimum working cap-
ital, or minimum amount of equity; and
‘‘(E) represent the Secretary or Adminis-
trator to protect the security interests of
the Government relating to an obligation
guarantee.
‘‘(2) PRIVATE SECTOR EXPERT.—Independent
analysis, review, and representation con-
ducted under this subsection shall be per-
formed by a private sector expert in the ap-
plicable field who is selected by the Sec-
retary or Administrator.
‘‘(d) VESSELS OF NATIONAL INTEREST.—
‘‘(1) NOTICE OF FUNDING.—The Secretary or
Administrator may post a notice in the Fed-
eral Register regarding the availability of
funding for obligation guarantees under this
chapter for the construction, reconstruction,
or reconditioning of a Vessel of National In-
terest and include a timeline for the submis-
sion of applications for such vessels.
‘‘(2) VESSEL CHARACTERISTICS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary or Ad-
ministrator, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Secretary of the De-
partment in which the Coast Guard Oper-
ates, or the heads of other Federal agencies,
shall develop and publish a list of vessel
types that would be considered Vessels of
National Interest.
‘‘(B) REVIEW.—Such list shall be reviewed
and revised every 4 years or as necessary, as
determined by the Administrator.’’.
(d) FUNDING LIMITS.—Section 53704 of title
46, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘that amount’’ and all the
follows through ‘‘$850,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘that amount, $850,000,000’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘facilities’’ and all that fol-
lows through the end of the subsection and
inserting ‘‘facilities.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(4)—
(A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B)
through (K), as subparagraphs (A) through
(J), respectively.
(e) ELIGIBLE PURPOSES OF OBLIGATIONS.—
Section 53706 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)(A)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘(including an eligible export ves-
sel);’’
(B) in clause (iv) by adding ‘‘or’’ after the
semicolon;
(C) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘; or’’ and in-
serting a period; and
(D) by striking clause (vi); and
(2) in subsection (c)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) after applying subparagraphs (A) and
(B), Vessels of National Interest.’’.
(f) AMOUNT OF OBLIGATIONS.—Section
53709(b) of title 46, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by striking paragraphs (3) and (6); and
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5)
as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively.
(g) CONTENTS OF OBLIGATIONS.—Section
53710 of title 46, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘or, in the case of’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘party’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon;
and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) documented under the laws of the
United States for the term of the guarantee
of the obligation or until the obligation is
paid in full, whichever is sooner.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘AND PROVIDE FOR THE FINANCIAL STABILITY
OF THE OBLIGOR’’ after ‘‘INTERESTS’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘provisions for the protec-
tion of’’ and inserting ‘‘provisions, which
shall include—
‘‘(1) provisions for the protection of’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘, and other matters that
the Secretary or Administrator may pre-
scribe.’’ and inserting, ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) any other provisions that the Sec-
retary or Administrator may prescribe.’’.
(h) ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.—Section 53713 of
title 46, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘reasonable for—’’ and inserting
‘‘ reasonable for processing the application
and monitoring the loan guarantee, includ-
ing for—’’;
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting ‘‘or a deposit fund under sec-
tion 53716 of this title;’’;
(C) in paragraph (5), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) monitoring and providing services re-
lated to the obligor’s compliance with any
terms related to the obligations, the guar-
antee, or maintenance of the Secretary or
Administrator’s security interests under this
chapter.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘under
section 53708(d) of this title’’ and inserting
‘‘under section 53703(c) of this title’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00135 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3766 June 18, 2019
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (1)
through (3) as subparagraphs (A) through (C),
respectively;
(C) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) FEE LIMITATION INAPPLICABLE.—Fees
collected under this subsection are not sub-
ject to the limitation of subsection (b).’’.
(i) BEST PRACTICES; ELIGIBLE EXPORT VES-
SELS.—Chapter 537 of title 46, United States
Code, is further amended—
(1) in subchapter I, by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘§ 53719. Best practices
‘‘The Secretary or Administrator shall en-
sure that all standard documents and agree-
ments that relate to loan guarantees made
pursuant to this chapter are reviewed and
updated every four years to ensure that such
documents and agreements meet the current
commercial best practices to the extent per-
mitted by law.’’; and
(2) in subchapter III, by striking section
53732.
(j) EXPRESS CONSIDERATION OF LOW-RISK
APPLICATIONS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this title, the Ad-
ministrator of the Maritime Administration
shall, in consultation with affected stake-
holders, create a process for express proc-
essing of low-risk maritime guaranteed loan
applications under chapter 537 of title 46,
United States Code, based on Federal and in-
dustry best practices, including proposals to
better assist applicants to submit complete
applications within 6 months of the initial
application.
(k) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—
(1) NOTIFICATION.—Not less than 60 days be-
fore reorganizing or consolidating the activi-
ties or personnel covered under chapter 537
of title 46, United States Code, the Secretary
of Transportation shall notify, in writing,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives of the pro-
posed reorganization or consolidation.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each notification under
paragraph (1) shall include an evaluation of,
and justification for, the reorganization or
consolidation.
(l) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(1) The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 53718 the following new item:
‘‘53719. Best practices.’’.
(2) The table of sections at the beginning of
chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, is
further amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 53732.
SEC. 3526. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
GUIDANCE.—Not later than 120 days after the
date of enactment of this title, the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, in
consultation with the Administrator of the
Maritime Administration, shall identify key
skills and competencies necessary to main-
tain a balance of expertise in merchant ma-
rine seagoing service and strategic sealift
military service in each of the following po-
sitions within the Office of the Commandant:
(1) Commandant.
(2) Deputy Commandant.
(3) Tactical company officers.
(4) Regimental officers.
(b) SEA YEAR COMPLIANCE.—Section
3514(a)(1)(A) of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law
114–328; 46 U.S.C. 51318 note) is amended by
inserting ‘‘domestic and international’’ after
‘‘criteria that’’.
SEC. 3527. UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE
ACADEMY’S SEXUAL ASSAULT PRE-
VENTION AND RESPONSE PROGRAM.
(a) IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDA-
TIONS.—The Secretary of Transportation
shall ensure that, not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this title, the
recommendations in the Inspector General of
the Department of Transportation’s report
on the effectiveness of the United States
Merchant Marine Academy’s Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response program (mandated
under section 3512 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Pub-
lic Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2786)), are fully im-
plemented.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this title, the Sec-
retary of Transportation shall submit a re-
port to Congress—
(1) confirming that the recommendations
described in subsection (a) have been fully
implemented, and explaining how those rec-
ommendations have been implemented; or
(2) if such recommendations have not been
fully implemented as of the date of the re-
port, including an explanation of why such
recommendations have not been fully imple-
mented and a description of the resources
that are needed to fully implement such rec-
ommendations.
SEC. 3528. REPORT ON VESSELS FOR EMERGING
OFFSHORE ENERGY INFRASTRUC-
TURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Trans-
portation, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Energy, the Secretary of the Inte-
rior, and the heads of other relevant agencies
as appropriate, shall prepare and submit a
report on the need for vessels to install, op-
erate, and maintain emerging offshore en-
ergy infrastructure, including offshore wind
energy.
(b) CONTENTS.—Such report shall include—
(1) an inventory of vessels (including exist-
ing vessels and vessels that have the poten-
tial to be refurbished) to install, operate, and
maintain such emerging offshore energy in-
frastructure;
(2) a projection of existing vessels needed
to meet such emerging offshore energy needs
over the next 10 years; and
(3) policy recommendations to ensure the
vessel capacity to support such emerging off-
shore energy.
(c) TRANSMITTAL.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Secretary of Transportation shall submit
such report to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources of the Senate, and the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives.
Subtitle B—Maritime SAFE Act
SEC. 3531. SHORT TITLES.
(a) SHORT TITLES.—This subtitle may be
cited as the ‘‘Maritime Security and Fish-
eries Enforcement Act’’ or the ‘‘Maritime
SAFE Act’’.
SEC. 3532. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) AIS.—The term ‘‘AIS’’ means Auto-
matic Identification System (as defined in
section 164.46 of title 33, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, or a similar successor regulation).
(2) COMBINED MARITIME FORCES.—The term
‘‘Combined Maritime Forces’’ means the 33-
nation naval partnership, originally estab-
lished in February 2002, which promotes se-
curity, stability, and prosperity across ap-
proximately 3,200,000 square miles of inter-
national waters.
(3) EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Unless otherwise speci-
fied by the President as being in the public
interest in a writing published in the Federal
Register, the term ‘‘exclusive economic
zone’’ means—
(i) the area within a zone established by a
maritime boundary that has been established
by a treaty in force or a treaty that is being
provisionally applied by the United States;
or
(ii) in the absence of a treaty described in
clause (i)—
(I) a zone, the outer boundary of which is
200 nautical miles from the baseline from
which the breadth of the territorial sea is
measured; or
(II) if the distance between the United
States and another country is less than 400
nautical miles, a zone, the outer boundary of
which is represented by a line equidistant be-
tween the United States and the other coun-
try.
(B) INNER BOUNDARY.—Without affecting
any Presidential Proclamation with regard
to the establishment of the United States
territorial sea or exclusive economic zone,
the inner boundary of the exclusive eco-
nomic zone is—
(i) in the case of coastal States, a line co-
terminous with the seaward boundary of
each such State (as described in section 4 of
the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1312));
(ii) in the case of the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, a line that is 3 marine leagues
from the coastline of the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico;
(iii) in the case of American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and the
Northern Mariana Islands, a line that is 3 ge-
ographic miles from the coastlines of Amer-
ican Samoa, the United States Virgin Is-
lands, Guam, or the Northern Mariana Is-
lands, respectively; or
(iv) for any possession of the United States
not referred to in clause (ii) or (iii), the
coastline of such possession.
(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph may be construed to diminish
the authority of the Department of Defense,
the Department of the Interior, or any other
Federal department or agency.
(4) FOOD SECURITY.—The term ‘‘food secu-
rity’’ means access to, and availability, uti-
lization, and stability of, sufficient food to
meet caloric and nutritional needs for an ac-
tive and healthy life.
(5) GLOBAL RECORD OF FISHING VESSELS, RE-
FRIGERATED TRANSPORT VESSELS, AND SUPPLY
VESSELS.—The term ‘‘global record of fishing
vessels, refrigerated transport vessels, and
supply vessels’’ means the Food and Agri-
culture Organization of the United Nations’
initiative to rapidly make available certified
data from state authorities about vessels and
vessel related activities.
(6) IUU FISHING.—The term ‘‘IUU fishing’’
means illegal fishing, unreported fishing, or
unregulated fishing (as such terms are de-
fined in paragraph 3 of the International
Plan of Action to Prevent, Deter, and Elimi-
nate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated
Fishing, adopted at the 24th Session of the
Committee on Fisheries in Rome on March 2,
2001).
(7) PORT STATE MEASURES AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Port State Measures Agreement’’
means the Agreement on Port State Meas-
ures to Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Ille-
gal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing set
forth by the Food and Agriculture Organiza-
tion of the United Nations, done at Rome,
Italy November 22, 2009, and entered into
force June 5, 2016, which offers standards for
reporting and inspecting fishing activities of
foreign-flagged fishing vessels at port.
(8) PRIORITY FLAG STATE.—The term ‘‘pri-
ority flag state’’ means a country selected in
accordance with section 3552(b)(3)—
(A) whereby the flagged vessels of which
actively engage in, knowingly profit from, or
are complicit in IUU fishing; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00136 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3767
June 18, 2019
(B) that is willing, but lacks the capacity,
to monitor or take effective enforcement ac-
tion against its fleet.
(9) PRIORITY REGION.—The term ‘‘priority
region’’ means a region selected in accord-
ance with section 3552(b)(2)—
(A) that is at high risk for IUU fishing ac-
tivity or the entry of illegally caught sea-
food into the markets of countries in the re-
gion; and
(B) in which countries lack the capacity to
fully address the illegal activity described in
subparagraph (A).
(10) REGIONAL FISHERIES MANAGEMENT OR-
GANIZATION.—The term ‘‘Regional Fisheries
Management Organization’’ means an inter-
governmental fisheries organization or ar-
rangement, as appropriate, that has the com-
petence to establish conservation and man-
agement measures.
(11) SEAFOOD.—The term ‘‘seafood’’—
(A) means marine finfish, mollusks, crus-
taceans, and all other forms of marine ani-
mal and plant life, including those grown,
produced, or reared through marine aqua-
culture operations or techniques; and
(B) does not include marine mammals, tur-
tles, or birds.
(12) TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED ILLEGAL AC-
TIVITY.—The term ‘‘transnational organized
illegal activity’’ means criminal activity
conducted by self-perpetuating associations
of individuals who operate transnationally
for the purpose of obtaining power, influ-
ence, or monetary or commercial gains,
wholly or in part by illegal means, while pro-
tecting their activities through a pattern of
corruption or violence or through a
transnational organizational structure and
the exploitation of transnational commerce
or communication mechanisms.
(13) TRANSSHIPMENT.—The term ‘‘trans-
shipment’’ means the use of refrigerated ves-
sels that—
(A) collect catch from multiple fishing
boats;
(B) carry the accumulated catches back to
port; and
(C) deliver supplies to fishing boats, which
allows fishing vessels to remain at sea for ex-
tended periods without coming into port.
SEC. 3533. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this subtitle are—
(1) to support a whole-of-government ap-
proach across the Federal Government to
counter IUU fishing and related threats to
maritime security;
(2) to improve data sharing that enhances
surveillance, enforcement, and prosecution
against IUU fishing and related activities at
a global level;
(3) to support coordination and collabora-
tion to counter IUU fishing within priority
regions;
(4) to increase and improve global trans-
parency and traceability across the seafood
supply chain as—
(A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
(B) a tool for strengthening fisheries man-
agement and food security;
(5) to improve global enforcement oper-
ations against IUU fishing through a whole-
of-government approach by the United
States; and
(6) to prevent the use of IUU fishing as a fi-
nancing source for transnational organized
groups that undermine United States and
global security interests.
SEC. 3534. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United Statesl
(1) to take action to curtail the global
trade in seafood and seafood products derived
from IUU fishing, including its links to
forced labor and transnational organized il-
legal activity;
(2) to develop holistic diplomatic, military,
law enforcement, economic, and capacity-
building tools to counter IUU fishing;
(3) to provide technical assistance to coun-
tries in priority regions and priority flag
states to combat IUU fishing, including as-
sistance—
(A) to increase local, national, and re-
gional level capacities to counter IUU fish-
ing through the engagement of law enforce-
ment and security forces;
(B) to enhance port capacity and security,
including by supporting other countries in
working toward the adoption and implemen-
tation of the Port State Measures Agree-
ment;
(C) to combat corruption and increase
transparency and traceability in fisheries
management and trade;
(D) to enhance information sharing within
and across governments and multilateral or-
ganizations through the development and
use of agreed standards for information shar-
ing; and
(E) to support effective, science-based fish-
eries management regimes that promote
legal and safe fisheries and act as a deterrent
to IUU fishing;
(4) to promote global maritime security
through improved capacity and techno-
logical assistance to support improved mari-
time domain awareness;
(5) to engage with priority flag states to
encourage the use of high quality vessel
tracking technologies where existing en-
forcement tools are lacking;
(6) to engage with multilateral organiza-
tions working on fisheries issues, including
Regional Fisheries Management Organiza-
tions and the Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation of the United Nations, to combat and
deter IUU fishing;
(7) to advance information sharing across
governments and multilateral organizations
in areas that cross multiple jurisdictions,
through the development and use of an
agreed standard for information sharing;
(8) to continue to use existing and future
trade agreements to combat IUU fishing;
(9) to employ appropriate assets and re-
sources of the United States Government in
a coordinated manner to disrupt the illicit
networks involved in IUU fishing;
(10) to continue to declassify and make
available, as appropriate and practicable,
technologies developed by the United States
Government that can be used to help counter
IUU fishing;
(11) to recognize the ties of IUU fishing to
transnational organized illegal activity, in-
cluding human trafficking and illegal trade
in narcotics and arms, and as applicable, to
focus on illicit activity in a coordinated,
cross-cutting manner;
(12) to recognize and respond to poor work-
ing conditions, labor abuses, and other vio-
lent crimes in the fishing industry;
(13) to increase and improve global trans-
parency and traceability along the seafood
supply chain as—
(A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
(B) an approach for strengthening fisheries
management and food security; and
(14) to promote technological investment
and innovation to combat IUU fishing.
PART I—PROGRAMS TO COMBAT IUU
FISHING AND INCREASE MARITIME SE-
CURITY
SEC. 3541. COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS.
The Secretary of State, in conjunction
with the Secretary of Commerce, shall co-
ordinate with Regional Fisheries Manage-
ment Organizations and the Food and Agri-
culture Organization of the United Nations,
and may coordinate with other relevant
international governmental or nongovern-
mental organizations, or the private sector,
as appropriate, to enhance regional re-
sponses to IUU fishing and related
transnational organized illegal activities.
SEC. 3542. ENGAGEMENT OF DIPLOMATIC MIS-
SIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this title, each chief of mission
(as defined in section 102 of the Foreign Serv-
ice Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3902)) to a relevant
country in a priority region or to a priority
flag state may, if the Secretary of State de-
termines such action is appropriate—
(1) convene a working group, led by De-
partment of State officials, to examine IUU
fishing, which may include stakeholders
such as—
(A) United States officials from relevant
agencies participating in the interagency
Working Group identified in section 3551, for-
eign officials, nongovernmental organiza-
tions, the private sector, and representatives
of local fishermen in the region; and
(B) experts on IUU fishing, law enforce-
ment, criminal justice, transnational orga-
nized illegal activity, defense, intelligence,
vessel movement monitoring, and inter-
national development operating in or with
knowledge of the region; and
(2) designate a counter-IUU Fishing Coor-
dinator from among existing personnel at
the mission if the chief of mission deter-
mines such action is appropriate.
SEC. 3543. ASSISTANCE BY FEDERAL AGENCIES
TO IMPROVE LAW ENFORCEMENT
WITHIN PRIORITY REGIONS AND
PRIORITY FLAG STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in collaboration with the Secretary of Com-
merce and the Commandant of the Coast
Guard when the Coast Guard is operating in,
or as a component of, the Department of
Homeland Security, as well as any other rel-
evant department or agency, shall provide
assistance, as appropriate, in accordance
with this section.
(b) LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING AND CO-
ORDINATION ACTIVITIES.—The officials re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate op-
portunities to provide assistance, as appro-
priate, to countries in priority regions and
priority flag states to improve the effective-
ness of IUU fishing enforcement, with clear
and measurable targets and indicators of
success, including—
(1) by assessing and using existing re-
sources, enforcement tools, and legal au-
thorities to coordinate efforts to combat IUU
fishing with efforts to combat other illegal
trade, including weapons, drugs, and human
trafficking;
(2) by expanding existing IUU fishing en-
forcement training;
(3) by providing targeted, country- and re-
gion-specific training on combating IUU
fishing, including in those countries that
have not adopted the Port State Measures
Agreement;
(4) by supporting increased effectiveness
and transparency of the fisheries enforce-
ment sectors of the governments of such
countries; and
(5) by supporting increased outreach to
stakeholders in the affected communities as
key partners in combating and prosecuting
IUU fishing.
(c) PORT SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—The offi-
cials referred to in subsection (a) shall evalu-
ate opportunities to provide assistance, as
appropriate, to countries in priority regions
and priority flag states to help those states
implement programs related to port security
and capacity for the purposes of preventing
IUU fishing products from entering the glob-
al seafood market, including by supporting
other countries in working toward the adop-
tion and implementation of the Port State
Measures Agreement.
(d) CAPACITY BUILDING FOR INVESTIGATIONS
AND PROSECUTIONS.—The officials referred to
in subsection (a), in collaboration with the
governments of countries in priority regions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00137 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3768 June 18, 2019
and of priority flag states, shall evaluate op-
portunities to assist those countries in de-
signing and implementing programs in such
countries, as appropriate, to increase the ca-
pacity of IUU fishing enforcement and cus-
toms and border security officers to improve
their ability—
(1) to conduct effective investigations, in-
cluding using law enforcement techniques
such as undercover investigations and the
development of informer networks and ac-
tionable intelligence;
(2) to conduct vessel boardings and inspec-
tions at sea and associated enforcement ac-
tions;
(3) to exercise existing shiprider agree-
ments and to enter into and implement new
shiprider agreements, as appropriate, includ-
ing in those countries that have not adopted
the Port State Measures Agreement;
(4) to conduct vessel inspections at port
and associated enforcement actions;
(5) to assess technology needs and promote
the use of technology to improve moni-
toring, enforcement, and prosecution of IUU
fishing;
(6) to conduct DNA-based and forensic
identification of seafood used in trade;
(7) to conduct training on techniques, such
as collecting electronic evidence and using
computer forensics, for law enforcement per-
sonnel involved in complex investigations re-
lated to international matters, financial
issues, and government corruption that in-
clude IUU fishing;
(8) to assess financial flows and the use of
financial institutions to launder profits re-
lated to IUU fishing;
(9) to conduct training on the legal mecha-
nisms that can be used to prosecute those
identified in the investigations as alleged
perpetrators of IUU fishing and other associ-
ated crimes such as trafficking and forced
labor; and
(10) to conduct training to raise awareness
of the use of whistleblower information and
ways to incentivize whistleblowers to come
forward with original information related to
IUU fishing.
(e) CAPACITY BUILDING FOR INFORMATION
SHARING.—The officials referred to in sub-
section (a) shall evaluate opportunities to
provide assistance, as appropriate, to key
countries in priority regions and priority
flag states in the form of training, equip-
ment, and systems development to build ca-
pacity for information sharing related to
maritime enforcement and port security.
(f) COORDINATION WITH OTHER RELEVANT
AGENCIES.—The Secretary of State, in col-
laboration with the Commandant of the
Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is oper-
ating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, and the Sec-
retary of Commerce, shall coordinate with
other relevant agencies, as appropriate, in
accordance with this section.
SEC. 3544. EXPANSION OF EXISTING MECHA-
NISMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING.
The Secretary of State, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is op-
erating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the At-
torney General, and the heads of other ap-
propriate Federal agencies shall assess op-
portunities to combat IUU fishing by ex-
panding, as appropriate, the use of the fol-
lowing mechanisms:
(1) Including counter-IUU fishing in exist-
ing shiprider agreements in which the United
States is a party.
(2) Entering into shiprider agreements that
include counter-IUU fishing with priority
flag states and countries in priority regions
with which the United States does not al-
ready have such an agreement.
(3) Including counter-IUU fishing as part of
the mission of the Combined Maritime
Forces.
(4) Including counter-IUU fishing exercises
in the annual at-sea exercises conducted by
the Department of Defense, in coordination
with the United States Coast Guard.
(5) Creating partnerships similar to the
Oceania Maritime Security Initiative and
the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement Part-
nership in other priority regions.
SEC. 3545. IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPARENCY
AND TRACEABILITY PROGRAMS.
The Secretary of State, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is op-
erating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the Secretary of
Commerce, and the heads of other Federal
agencies, if merited, shall work, as appro-
priate, with priority flag states and key
countries in priority regions—
(1) to increase knowledge within such
countries about the United States trans-
parency and traceability standards for im-
ports of seafood and seafood products;
(2) to improve the capacity of seafood in-
dustries within such countries through infor-
mation sharing and training to meet the re-
quirements of transparency and traceability
standards for seafood and seafood product
imports, including catch documentation and
trade tracking programs adopted by relevant
regional fisheries management organiza-
tions;
(3) to improve the capacities of govern-
ment, industry, and civil society groups to
develop and implement comprehensive
traceability systems that—
(A) deter IUU fishing;
(B) strengthen fisheries management; and
(C) enhance maritime domain awareness;
and
(4) to support the implementation of sea-
food traceability standards in such countries
to prevent IUU fishing products from enter-
ing the global seafood market and assess ca-
pacity and training needs in those countries.
SEC. 3546. TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.
The Secretary of State, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is op-
erating in, or as a component of, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, and the
heads of other Federal agencies, as appro-
priate, shall pursue programs to expand the
role of technology for combating IUU fish-
ing, including by—
(1) promoting the use of technology to
combat IUU fishing;
(2) assessing the technology needs, includ-
ing vessel tracking technologies and data
sharing, in priority regions and priority flag
states;
(3) engaging with priority flag states to en-
courage the mandated use of vessel tracking
technologies, including vessel monitoring
systems, AIS, or other vessel movement
monitoring technologies on fishing vessels
and transshipment vessels at all times, as
appropriate, while at sea as a means to iden-
tify IUU fishing activities and the shipment
of illegally caught fish products; and
(4) building partnerships with the private
sector, including universities, nonprofit re-
search organizations, the seafood industry,
and the technology, transportation and lo-
gistics sectors, to leverage new and existing
technologies and data analytics to address
IUU fishing.
SEC. 3547. SAVINGS CLAUSE.
No provision of section 3532 or of this part
shall impose, or be interpreted to impose,
any duty, responsibility, requirement, or ob-
ligation on the Department of Defense, the
Department of the Navy, or any official or
component of either.
PART II—ESTABLISHMENT OF INTER-
AGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISH-
ING
SEC. 3551. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON
IUU FISHING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established a
collaborative interagency working group on
maritime security and IUU fishing (referred
to in this subtitle as the ‘‘Working Group’’).
(b) MEMBERS.—The members of the Work-
ing Group shall be composed of—
(1) 1 chair, who shall rotate between the
Coast Guard, the Department of State, and
the National Oceanographic and Atmos-
pheric Administration on a 3-year term;
(2) 2 deputy chairs, who shall be appointed
by their respective agency heads and shall be
from a different Department than that of the
chair, from—
(A) the Coast Guard;
(B) the Department of State; and
(C) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration;
(3) 11 members, who shall be appointed by
their respective agency heads, from—
(A) the Department of Defense;
(B) the United States Navy;
(C) the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development;
(D) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service;
(E) the Department of Justice;
(F) the Department of the Treasury;
(G) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
(H) U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement;
(I) the Federal Trade Commission;
(J) the Department of Agriculture;
(K) the Food and Drug Administration; and
(L) the Department of Labor;
(4) 5 members, who shall be appointed by
the President, from—
(A) the National Security Council;
(B) the Council on Environmental Quality;
(C) the Office of Management and Budget;
(D) the Office of Science and Technology
Policy; and
(E) the Office of the United States Trade
Representative.
(c) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Working Group
shall ensure an integrated, Federal Govern-
ment-wide response to IUU fishing globally,
including by—
(1) improving the coordination of Federal
agencies to identify, interdict, investigate,
prosecute, and dismantle IUU fishing oper-
ations and organizations perpetrating and
knowingly benefitting from IUU fishing;
(2) assessing areas for increased inter-
agency information sharing on matters re-
lated to IUU fishing and related crimes;
(3) establishing standards for information
sharing related to maritime enforcement;
(4) developing a strategy to determine how
military assets and intelligence can con-
tribute to enforcement strategies to combat
IUU fishing;
(5) increasing maritime domain awareness
relating to IUU fishing and related crimes
and developing a strategy to leverage aware-
ness for enhanced enforcement and prosecu-
tion actions against IUU fishing;
(6) supporting the adoption and implemen-
tation of the Port State Measures Agree-
ment in relevant countries and assessing the
capacity and training needs in such coun-
tries;
(7) outlining a strategy to coordinate, in-
crease, and use shiprider agreements be-
tween the Department of Defense or the
Coast Guard and relevant countries;
(8) enhancing cooperation with partner
governments to combat IUU fishing;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00138 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3769
June 18, 2019
(9) identifying opportunities for increased
information sharing between Federal agen-
cies and partner governments working to
combat IUU fishing;
(10) consulting and coordinating with the
seafood industry and nongovernmental
stakeholders that work to combat IUU fish-
ing;
(11) supporting the work of collaborative
international initiatives to make available
certified data from state authorities about
vessel and vessel-related activities related to
IUU fishing;
(12) supporting the identification and cer-
tification procedures to address IUU fishing
in accordance with the High Seas Driftnet
Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16
U.S.C. 1826d et seq.); and
(13) publishing annual reports summarizing
nonsensitive information about the Working
Group’s efforts to investigate, enforce, and
prosecute groups and individuals engaging in
IUU fishing.
SEC. 3552. STRATEGIC PLAN.
(a) STRATEGIC PLAN.—Not later than 2
years after the date of the enactment of this
title, the Working Group, after consultation
with the relevant stakeholders, shall submit
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations of the Senate,
the Committee on Appropriations of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives, the Committee
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Represent-
atives, and the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives a 5-year in-
tegrated strategic plan on combating IUU
fishing and enhancing maritime security, in-
cluding specific strategies with monitoring
benchmarks for addressing IUU fishing in
priority regions.
(b) IDENTIFICATION OF PRIORITY REGIONS
AND PRIORITY FLAG STATES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The strategic plan sub-
mitted under subsection (a) shall identify
priority regions and priority flag states to be
the focus of assistance coordinated by the
Working Group under section 3551.
(2) PRIORITY REGION SELECTION CRITERIA.—
In selecting priority regions under paragraph
(1), the Working Group shall select regions
that—
(A) are at high risk for IUU fishing activ-
ity or the entry of illegally caught seafood
into their markets; and
(B) lack the capacity to fully address the
issues described in subparagraph (A).
(3) PRIORITY FLAG STATES SELECTION CRI-
TERIA.—In selecting priority flag states
under paragraph (1), the Working Group
shall select countries—
(A) the flagged vessels of which actively
engage in, knowingly profit from, or are
complicit in IUU fishing; and
(B) that lack the capacity to police their
fleet.
SEC. 3553. REPORTS.
Not later than 5 years after the submission
of the 5-year integrated strategic plan under
section 3552, and 5 years after, the Working
Group shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation of the Senate, the Committee on For-
eign Relations of the Senate, the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the
Select Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutri-
tion, and Forestry of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives, the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives, and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives that contains—
(1) a summary of global and regional
trends in IUU fishing;
(2) an assessment of the extent of the con-
vergence between transnational organized il-
legal activity, including human trafficking
and forced labor, and IUU fishing;
(3) an assessment of the topics, data
sources, and strategies that would benefit
from increased information sharing and rec-
ommendations regarding harmonization of
data collection and sharing;
(4) an assessment of assets, including mili-
tary assets and intelligence, which can be
used for either enforcement operations or
strategies to combat IUU fishing;
(5) summaries of the situational threats
with respect to IUU fishing in priority re-
gions and an assessment of the capacity of
countries within such regions to respond to
those threats;
(6) an assessment of the progress of coun-
tries in priority regions in responding to
those threats as a result of assistance by the
United States pursuant to the strategic plan
developed under section 3552, including—
(A) the identification of—
(i) relevant supply routes, ports of call,
methods of landing and entering illegally
caught product into legal supply chains, and
financial institutions used in each country
by participants engaging in IUU fishing; and
(ii) indicators of IUU fishing that are re-
lated to money laundering;
(B) an assessment of the adherence to, or
progress toward adoption of, international
treaties related to IUU fishing, including the
Port State Measures Agreement, by coun-
tries in priority regions;
(C) an assessment of the implementation
by countries in priority regions of seafood
traceability or capacity to apply traceability
to verify the legality of catch and strengthen
fisheries management;
(D) an assessment of the capacity of coun-
tries in priority regions to implement
shiprider agreements;
(E) an assessment of the capacity of coun-
tries in priority regions to increase mari-
time domain awareness; and
(F) an assessment of the capacity of gov-
ernments of relevant countries in priority
regions to sustain the programs for which
the United States has provided assistance
under this subtitle;
(7) an assessment of the capacity of pri-
ority flag states to track the movement of
and police their fleet, prevent their flagged
vessels from engaging in IUU fishing, and en-
force applicable laws and regulations; and
(8) an assessment of the extent of involve-
ment in IUU fishing of organizations des-
ignated as foreign terrorist organizations
under section 219 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
SEC. 3554. GULF OF MEXICO IUU FISHING SUB-
WORKING GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this title,
the Administrator of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, in coordi-
nation with the Coast Guard and the Depart-
ment of State, shall establish a subworking
group to address IUU fishing in the exclusive
economic zone of the United States in the
Gulf of Mexico.
(b) FUNCTIONS.—The subworking group es-
tablished under subsection (a) shall iden-
tify—
(1) Federal actions taken and policies es-
tablished during the 5-year period imme-
diately preceding the date of the enactment
of this title with respect to IUU fishing in
the exclusive economic zone of the United
States in the Gulf of Mexico, including such
actions and policies related to—
(A) the surveillance, interdiction, and pros-
ecution of any foreign nationals engaged in
such fishing; and
(B) the application of the provisions of the
High Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Pro-
tection Act (16 U.S.C. 1826d et seq.) to any
relevant nation, including the status of any
past or ongoing consultations and certifi-
cation procedures;
(2) actions and policies, in addition to the
actions and policies described in paragraph
(1), each of the Federal agencies described in
subsection (a) can take, using existing re-
sources, to combat IUU fishing in the exclu-
sive economic zone of the United States in
the Gulf of Mexico; and
(3) any additional authorities that could
assist each such agency in more effectively
addressing such IUU fishing.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the IUU Fishing Subworking Group is estab-
lished under subsection (a), the group shall
submit a report to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House of Representatives that
contains—
(1) the findings identified pursuant to sub-
section (b); and
(2) a timeline for each of the Federal agen-
cies described in subsection (a) to implement
each action or policy identified pursuant to
subsection (b)(2).
PART III—COMBATING HUMAN TRAF-
FICKING IN CONNECTION WITH THE
CATCHING AND PROCESSING OF SEA-
FOOD PRODUCTS
SEC. 3561. FINDING.
Congress finds that human trafficking, in-
cluding forced labor, is a pervasive problem
in the catching and processing of certain sea-
food products imported into the United
States, particularly seafood products ob-
tained through illegal, unreported, and un-
regulated fishing.
SEC. 3562. ADDING THE SECRETARY OF COM-
MERCE TO THE INTERAGENCY TASK
FORCE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT
TRAFFICKING.
Section 105(b) of the Victims of Trafficking
and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (22
U.S.C. 7103(b)) is amended by inserting ‘‘the
Secretary of Commerce,’’ after ‘‘the Sec-
retary of Education,’’.
SEC. 3563. HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN THE SEA-
FOOD SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this title,
the Secretary of State and the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration shall jointly submit a
report to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate, the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House of Representatives, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
of Representatives, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives that describes the existence of human
trafficking, including forced labor, in the
supply chains of seafood products imported
into the United States.
(b) REPORT ELEMENTS.—The report re-
quired under subsection (a) shall include—
(1) a list of the countries at risk for human
trafficking, including forced labor, in their
seafood catching and processing industries,
and an assessment of such risk for each list-
ed country;
(2) a description of the quantity and eco-
nomic value of seafood products imported
into the United States from the countries on
the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1);
(3) a description and assessment of the
methods, if any, in the countries on the list
compiled pursuant to paragraph (1) to trace
and account for the manner in which seafood
is caught;
(4) a description of domestic and inter-
national enforcement mechanisms to deter
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00139 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3770 June 18, 2019
illegal practices in the catching of seafood in
the countries on the list compiled pursuant
to paragraph (1); and
(5) such recommendations as the Secretary
of State and the Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion jointly consider appropriate for legisla-
tive or administrative action to enhance and
improve actions against human trafficking,
including forced labor, in the catching and
processing of seafood products outside of
United States waters.
PART IV—AUTHORIZATION OF
APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 3571. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) FUNDING.—Amounts made available to
carry out this subtitle shall be derived from
amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available to the relevant agencies and de-
partments.
(b) NO INCREASE IN CONTRIBUTIONS.—Noth-
ing in this subtitle shall be construed to au-
thorize an increase in required or voluntary
contributions paid by the United States to
any multilateral or international organiza-
tion.
SEC. 3572. ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS.
By not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this title, the head of each Fed-
eral agency receiving or allocating funds to
carry out activities under this subtitle shall,
to the greatest extent practicable, prepare
and submit to Congress a report that pro-
vides an accounting of all funds made avail-
able under this subtitle to the Federal agen-
cy.
SA 745. Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. GARDNER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
SULLIVAN, and Mr. TOOMEY) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 318(a), add at the end the fol-
lowing:
(3) OTHER AUTHORITY.—In addition to the
requirements under paragraph (1), when oth-
erwise authorized to expend funds for the
purpose of addressing ground or surface
water contaminated by a perfluorinated
compound, the Secretary of Defense may, to
expend those funds, enter into a grant agree-
ment, cooperative agreement, or contract
with—
(A) the local water authority with jurisdic-
tion over the contamination site, including—
(i) a public water system (as defined in sec-
tion 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300f)); and
(ii) a publicly owned treatment works (as
defined in section 212 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1292)); or
(B) a State, local, or Tribal government.
At the end of division A, add the following:
TITLE XVII—PFAS RELEASE DISCLOSURE,
DETECTION, AND SAFE DRINKING
WATER ASSISTANCE
SEC. 1701. DEFINITION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
In this title, the term ‘‘Administrator’’
means the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
Subtitle A—PFAS Release Disclosure
SEC. 1711. ADDITIONS TO TOXICS RELEASE IN-
VENTORY.
(a) DEFINITION OF TOXICS RELEASE INVEN-
TORY.—In this section, the term ‘‘toxics re-
lease inventory’’ means the toxics release in-
ventory under section 313(c) of the Emer-
gency Planning and Community Right-To-
Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c)).
(b) IMMEDIATE INCLUSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (e),
beginning January 1 of the calendar year fol-
lowing the date of enactment of this Act, the
following chemicals shall be deemed to be in-
cluded in the toxics release inventory:
(A) Perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘‘PFOA’’) (Chemical Abstracts
Service No. 335–67–1).
(B) The salt associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (A) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 3825–26–1).
(C) Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (com-
monly referred to as ‘‘PFOS’’) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 1763–23–1).
(D) The salts associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (C) (Chemical Ab-
stract Service Nos. 45298–90–6, 29457–72–5,
56773–42–3, 29081–56–9, 4021–47–0, 111873–33–7,
and 91036–71–4).
(E) A perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances that is—
(i) listed as an active chemical substance
in the February 2019 update to the inventory
under section 8(b)(1) of the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(b)(1)); and
(ii) on the date of enactment of this Act,
subject to the provisions of—
(I) section 721.9582 of title 40, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations; or
(II) section 721.10536 of title 40, Code of
Federal Regulations.
(2) THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the threshold for reporting the chemi-
cals described in paragraph (1) under section
313(f)(1) of the Emergency Planning and
Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42
U.S.C. 11023(f)(1)) is 100 pounds.
(B) REVISIONS.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall—
(i) determine whether revision of the
threshold under subparagraph (A) is war-
ranted; and
(ii) if the Administrator determines a revi-
sion to be warranted under clause (i), ini-
tiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
(c) INCLUSION FOLLOWING ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (e),
a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances shall be auto-
matically included in the toxics release in-
ventory beginning January 1 of the calendar
year after any of the following dates:
(A) ESTABLISHMENT OF TOXICITY VALUE.—
The date on which the Administrator estab-
lishes a toxicity value for the perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances.
(B) SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE.—The date
on which the Administrator finalizes a sig-
nificant new use rule under subsection (a)(2)
of section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new
use rule promulgated in connection with an
order issued under subsection (e) of that sec-
tion, for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances.
(C) ADDITION TO EXISTING SIGNIFICANT NEW
USE RULE.—The date on which the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances is added to a list of substances
covered by a significant new use rule pre-
viously promulgated under subsection (a)(2)
of section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), except a significant new
use rule promulgated in connection with an
order issued under subsection (e) of that sec-
tion.
(D) ADDITION AS ACTIVE CHEMICAL SUB-
STANCE.—The date on which the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances that is on a list of substances
covered by a significant new use rule under
subsection (a)(2) of section 5 of the Toxic
Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2604), ex-
cept a significant new use rule promulgated
in connection with an order issued under
subsection (e) of that section, is—
(i) added to the inventory under subsection
(b)(1) of section 8 of the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607) and designated as
an active chemical substance under sub-
section (b)(5)(A) of that section; or
(ii) designated as an active chemical sub-
stance on the inventory in accordance with
subsection (b)(5)(B) of that section.
(2) THRESHOLD FOR REPORTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the threshold for reporting under section
313(f)(1) of the Emergency Planning and
Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42
U.S.C. 11203(f)(1)) the substances and classes
of substances included in the toxics release
inventory under paragraph (1) is 100 pounds.
(B) REVISIONS.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall—
(i) determine whether revision of the
thresholds under subparagraph (A) is war-
ranted; and
(ii) if the Administrator determines a revi-
sion to be warranted under clause (i), ini-
tiate a revision under section 313(f)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
(d) INCLUSION FOLLOWING DETERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To the extent not already
subject to subsection (b), not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Administrator shall determine
whether the substances and classes of sub-
stances described in paragraph (2) meet the
criteria described in section 313(d)(2) of the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-
To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)) for
inclusion in the toxics release inventory.
(2) SUBSTANCES DESCRIBED.—The sub-
stances and classes of substances referred to
in paragraph (1) are perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, including—
(A) hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid
(Chemical Abstracts Service No. 13252–13–6);
(B) the compounds associated with the
chemical described in subparagraph (A)
(Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 62037–80–3
and 2062–98–8);
(C) perfluoro[(2-pentafluoroethoxy-
ethoxy)acetic acid] ammonium salt (Chem-
ical Abstracts Service No. 908020–52–0);
(D) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
hexafluoro)-2-(trifluoromethoxy) propanoyl
fluoride (Chemical Abstracts Service No.
2479–75–6);
(E) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
hexafluoro)-2-(trifluoromethoxy) propionic
acid (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 2479–73–
4);
(F) 3H-perfluoro-3-[(3-methoxy-propoxy)
propanoic acid] (Chemical Abstracts Service
No. 919005–14–4);
(G) the salts associated with the chemical
described in subparagraph (F) (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service Nos. 958445–44–8, 1087271–46–2,
and NOCASl892452);
(H) 1-octanesulfonic acid
3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8-tridecafluoro-potassium
salt (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 59587–
38–1);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00140 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.088 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3771
June 18, 2019
(I) perfluorobutanesulfonic acid (Chemical
Abstracts Service No. 375–73–5);
(J) 1-Butanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
nonafluoro-potassium salt (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 29420–49–3);
(K) the component associated with the
chemical described in subparagraph (J)
(Chemical Abstracts Service No. 45187–15–3);
(L) heptafluorobutyric acid (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 375–22–4);
(M) perfluorohexanoic acid (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service No. 307–24–4);
(N) each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkly
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances for which a meth-
od to measure levels in drinking water has
been validated by the Administrator; and
(O) a perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances other than the
chemicals described in subparagraphs (A)
through (N) that is used to manufacture
fluoropolymers, as determined by the Ad-
ministrator.
(3) ADDITION TO TOXICS RELEASE INVEN-
TORY.—Subject to subsection (e), if the Ad-
ministrator determines under paragraph (1)
that a substance or a class of substances de-
scribed in paragraph (2) meets the criteria
described in section 313(d)(2) of the Emer-
gency Planning and Community Right-To-
Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)), the
Administrator shall revise the toxics release
inventory to include that substance or class
of substances not later than 2 years after the
date on which the Administrator makes the
determination.
(e) CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Prior to including on the
toxics release inventory pursuant to sub-
section (b)(1), (c)(1), or (d)(3) any
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances the chemical identity of which is
subject to a claim of a person of protection
from disclosure under subsection (a) of sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code, pursu-
ant to subsection (b)(4) of that section, the
Administrator shall—
(A) review that claim of protection from
disclosure; and
(B) require that person to reassert and sub-
stantiate or resubstantiate that claim in ac-
cordance with section 14(f) of the Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(f)).
(2) NONDISCLOSURE OF PROTECTION INFORMA-
TION.—If the Administrator determines that
the chemical identity of a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
qualifies for protection from disclosure
under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall
include the substance or class of substances,
as applicable, on the toxics release inventory
in a manner that does not disclose the pro-
tected information.
(f) EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY
RIGHT-TO-KNOW ACT OF 1986.—Section 313(c)
of the Emergency Planning and Community
Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c))
is amended—
(1) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘are those chemicals’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘are—
‘‘(1) the chemicals’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) the chemicals included under sub-
sections (b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(3) of section
1711 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020.’’.
Subtitle B—Drinking Water
SEC. 1721. NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER
REGULATIONS FOR PFAS.
Section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) PERFLUOROALKYL AND
POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this subpara-
graph, the Administrator shall promulgate a
national primary drinking water regulation
for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, which shall, at a minimum, include
standards for—
‘‘(I) perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘PFOA’); and
‘‘(II) perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (com-
monly referred to as ‘PFOS’).
‘‘(ii) ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the validation by the Administrator of
an equally effective quality control and test-
ing procedure to ensure compliance with
that national primary drinking water regu-
lation to measure the levels described in sub-
clause (II) or other methods to detect and
monitor perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances in drinking water, the Adminis-
trator shall add the procedure or method as
an alternative to the quality control and
testing procedure described in that national
primary drinking water regulation by pub-
lishing the procedure or method in the Fed-
eral Register.
‘‘(II) LEVELS DESCRIBED.—The levels re-
ferred to in subclause (I) are—
‘‘(aa) the level of a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance;
‘‘(bb) the total levels of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
‘‘(cc) the total levels of organic fluorine.
‘‘(iii) INCLUSIONS.—The Administrator may
include a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances on—
‘‘(I) the list of contaminants for consider-
ation of regulation under paragraph (1)(B)(i);
and
‘‘(II) the list of unregulated contaminants
to be monitored under section
1445(a)(2)(B)(i).
‘‘(iv) MONITORING.—When establishing
monitoring requirements for public water
systems as part of a national primary drink-
ing water regulation under clause (i) or
clause (vi)(II), the Administrator shall tailor
the monitoring requirements for public
water systems that do not detect or are reli-
ably and consistently below the maximum
contaminant level (as defined in section
1418(b)(2)(B)) for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
subject to the national primary drinking
water regulation.
‘‘(v) HEALTH RISK REDUCTION AND COST
ANALYSIS.—In meeting the requirements of
paragraph (3)(C), the Administrator may rely
on information available to the Adminis-
trator with respect to 1 or more specific
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
to extrapolate reasoned conclusions regard-
ing the health risks and effects of a class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
of which the specific perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substances are a part.
‘‘(vi) REGULATION OF ADDITIONAL SUB-
STANCES.—
‘‘(I) DETERMINATION.—The Administrator
shall make a determination under paragraph
(1)(A), using the criteria described in clauses
(i) through (iii) of that paragraph, whether
to include a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
in the national primary drinking water regu-
lation under clause (i) not later than 18
months after the later of—
‘‘(aa) the date on which the perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
is listed on the list of contaminants for con-
sideration of regulation under paragraph
(1)(B)(i); and
‘‘(bb) the date on which—
‘‘(AA) the Administrator has received the
results of monitoring under section
1445(a)(2)(B) for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance;
or
‘‘(BB) the Administrator has received fin-
ished water data or finished water moni-
toring surveys for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
from a Federal or State agency that the Ad-
ministrator determines to be sufficient to
make a determination under paragraph
(1)(A).
‘‘(II) PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULA-
TIONS.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—For each perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances
that the Administrator determines to regu-
late under subclause (I), the Administrator—
‘‘(AA) not later than 18 months after the
date on which the Administrator makes the
determination, shall propose a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation for the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances; and
‘‘(BB) may publish the proposed national
primary drinking water regulation described
in subitem (AA) concurrently with the publi-
cation of the determination to regulate the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances.
‘‘(bb) DEADLINE.—
‘‘(AA) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date on which the Administrator
publishes a proposed national primary drink-
ing water regulation under item (aa)(AA)
and subject to subitem (BB), the Adminis-
trator shall take final action on the proposed
national primary drinking water regulation.
‘‘(BB) EXTENSION.—The Administrator, on
publication of notice in the Federal Register,
may extend the deadline under subitem (AA)
by not more than 6 months.
‘‘(vii) LIFETIME DRINKING WATER HEALTH
ADVISORY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclause (II),
the Administrator shall publish a health ad-
visory under paragraph (1)(F) for a
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances not later than 1 year after the
later of—
‘‘(aa) the date on which the Administrator
finalizes a toxicity value for the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances; and
‘‘(bb) the date on which the Administrator
validates an effective quality control and
testing procedure for the perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance,
if such a procedure did not exist on the date
on which the toxicity value described in item
(aa) was finalized.
‘‘(II) WAIVER.—The Administrator may
waive the requirements of subclause (I) with
respect to a perfluoroalkyl or
polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances if the Administrator determines that
there is a substantial likelihood that the
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances will not occur in drinking
water.’’.
SEC. 1722. MONITORING AND DETECTION.
(a) MONITORING PROGRAM FOR UNREGU-
LATED CONTAMINANTS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00141 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.082 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3772 June 18, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
include each substance described in para-
graph (2) in the fifth publication of the list of
unregulated contaminants to be monitored
under section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–
4(a)(2)(B)(i)).
(2) SUBSTANCES DESCRIBED.—The sub-
stances referred to in paragraph (1) are
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances and classes of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances—
(A) for which a method to measure the
level in drinking water has been validated by
the Administrator; and
(B) that are not subject to a national pri-
mary drinking water regulation under clause
(i) or (vi)(II) of subparagraph (D) of section
1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)).
(3) EXCEPTION.—The perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances included in the list of unregulated
contaminants to be monitored under section
1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–4(a)(2)(B)(i)) under para-
graph (1) shall not count towards the limit of
30 unregulated contaminants to be mon-
itored by public water systems under that
section.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall—
(A) require public water systems serving
more than 10,000 persons to monitor for the
substances described in subsection (a)(2);
(B) subject to paragraph (2) and the avail-
ability of appropriations, require public
water systems serving not fewer than 3,300
and not more than 10,000 persons to monitor
for the substances described in subsection
(a)(2); and
(C) subject to paragraph (2) and the avail-
ability of appropriations, ensure that only a
representative sample of public water sys-
tems serving fewer than 3,300 persons are re-
quired to monitor for the substances de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2).
(2) REQUIREMENT.—If the Administrator de-
termines that there is not sufficient labora-
tory capacity to carry out the monitoring
required under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of
paragraph (1), the Administrator may waive
the monitoring requirements in those sub-
paragraphs.
(3) FUNDS.—The Administrator shall pay
the reasonable cost of such testing and lab-
oratory analysis as is necessary to carry out
the monitoring required under paragraph (1)
from—
(A) funds made available under subsection
(a)(2)(H) or (j)(5) of section 1445 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–4); or
(B) any other funds made available for that
purpose.
SEC. 1723. ENFORCEMENT.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Administrator may not impose fi-
nancial penalties for the violation of a na-
tional primary drinking water regulation (as
defined in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f)) with respect to a
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl
substances for which a national primary
drinking water regulation has been promul-
gated under clause (i) or (vi) of subparagraph
(D) of section 1412(b)(2) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b)(2)) earlier than
the date that is 5 years after the date on
which the Administrator promulgates the
national primary drinking water regulation.
SEC. 1724. EMERGING CONTAMINANTS GRANTS.
Part E of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300j et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 1459E. EMERGING CONTAMINANTS GRANTS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection
(b), the Administrator shall establish a pro-
gram to provide grants to public water sys-
tems for the purpose of addressing emerging
contaminants, with a focus on perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED COMMU-
NITIES.—Not less than 25 percent of the
amounts made available to carry out this
section shall be used to provide grants to—
‘‘(A) public water systems serving dis-
advantaged communities (as defined in sec-
tion 1452(d)(3)); or
‘‘(B) public water systems serving fewer
than 25,000 persons.
‘‘(2) PRIORITIES.—In selecting recipients of
grants under subsection (a), the Adminis-
trator shall use the priorities described in
section 1452(b)(3)(A).
‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to carry out this section
$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024, to remain available until ex-
pended.
‘‘(2) NO INCREASED BONDING AUTHORITY.—
The amounts made available under para-
graph (1) may not be used as a source of pay-
ment of, or security for (directly or indi-
rectly), in whole or in part, any obligation
the interest on which is exempt from the tax
imposed under chapter 1 of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986.’’.
Subtitle C—PFAS Detection
SEC. 1731. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the United States Geological
Survey.
(2) PERFLUORINATED COMPOUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘perfluorinated
compound’’ means a perfluoroalkyl sub-
stance or a polyfluoroalkyl substance that is
manmade with at least 1 fully fluorinated
carbon atom.
(B) DEFINITIONS.—In this definition:
(i) FULLY FLUORINATED CARBON ATOM.—The
term ‘‘fully fluorinated carbon atom’’ means
a carbon atom on which all the hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(ii) NONFLUORINATED CARBON ATOM.—The
term ‘‘nonfluorinated carbon atom’’ means a
carbon atom on which no hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(iii) PARTIALLY FLUORINATED CARBON
ATOM.—The term ‘‘partially fluorinated car-
bon atom’’ means a carbon atom on which
some, but not all, of the hydrogen
substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
(iv) PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE.—The
term ‘‘perfluoroalkyl substance’’ means a
manmade chemical of which all of the car-
bon atoms are fully fluorinated carbon
atoms.
(v) POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE.—The
term ‘‘polyfluoroalkyl substance’’ means a
manmade chemical containing a mix of fully
fluorinated carbon atoms, partially
fluorinated carbon atoms, and
nonfluorinated carbon atoms.
SEC. 1732. PERFORMANCE STANDARD FOR THE
DETECTION OF PERFLUORINATED
COMPOUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall estab-
lish a performance standard for the detection
of perfluorinated compounds.
(b) EMPHASIS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In developing the per-
formance standard under subsection (a), the
Director shall emphasize the ability to de-
tect as many perfluorinated compounds
present in the environment as possible using
analytical methods that—
(A) achieve limits of quantitation (as de-
fined in the document of the United States
Geological Survey entitled ‘‘Analytical
Methods for Chemical Analysis of Geologic
and Other Materials, U.S. Geological Sur-
vey’’ and dated 2002); and
(B) are as sensitive as is feasible and prac-
ticable.
(2) REQUIREMENT.—In developing the per-
formance standard under subsection (a), the
Director may—
(A) develop quality assurance and quality
control measures to ensure accurate sam-
pling and testing;
(B) develop a training program with re-
spect to the appropriate method of sample
collection and analysis of perfluorinated
compounds; and
(C) coordinate with the Administrator, in-
cluding, if appropriate, coordinating to de-
velop media-specific, validated analytical
methods to detect individual and different
perfluorinated compounds simultaneously.
SEC. 1733. NATIONWIDE SAMPLING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall carry
out a nationwide sampling to determine the
concentration of perfluorinated compounds
in estuaries, lakes, streams, springs, wells,
wetlands, rivers, aquifers, and soil using the
performance standard developed under sec-
tion 1732(a).
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out the
sampling under subsection (a), the Director
shall—
(1) first carry out the sampling at sources
of drinking water near locations with known
or suspected releases of perfluorinated com-
pounds;
(2) when carrying out sampling of sources
of drinking water under paragraph (1), carry
out the sampling prior to any treatment of
the water;
(3) survey for ecological exposure to
perfluorinated compounds, with a priority in
determining direct human exposure through
drinking water; and
(4) consult with—
(A) States to determine areas that are a
priority for sampling; and
(B) the Administrator—
(i) to enhance coverage of the sampling;
and
(ii) to avoid unnecessary duplication.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the completion of the sampling under sub-
section (a), the Director shall prepare a re-
port describing the results of the sampling
and submit the report to—
(1) the Committee on Environment and
Public Works and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(3) the Senators of each State in which the
Director carried out the sampling; and
(4) each Member of the House of Represent-
atives that represents a district in which the
Director carried out the sampling.
SEC. 1734. DATA USAGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall pro-
vide the sampling data collected under sec-
tion 1733 to—
(1) the Administrator; and
(2) other Federal and State regulatory
agencies on request.
(b) USAGE.—The sampling data provided
under subsection (a) shall be used to inform
and enhance assessments of exposure, likely
health and environmental impacts, and re-
mediation priorities.
SEC. 1735. COLLABORATION.
In carrying out this subtitle, the Director
shall collaborate with—
(1) appropriate Federal and State regu-
lators;
(2) institutions of higher education;
(3) research institutions; and
(4) other expert stakeholders.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00142 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.082 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3773
June 18, 2019
SEC. 1736. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Director to carry out this subtitle—
(1) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
(2) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2024.
Subtitle D—Safe Drinking Water Assistance
SEC. 1741. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONTAMINANT.—The term ‘‘contami-
nant’’ means any physical, chemical, biologi-
cal, or radiological substance or matter in
water.
(2) CONTAMINANT OF EMERGING CONCERN;
EMERGING CONTAMINANT.—The terms ‘‘con-
taminant of emerging concern’’ and ‘‘emerg-
ing contaminant’’ mean a contaminant—
(A) for which the Administrator has not
promulgated a national primary drinking
water regulation; and
(B) that may have an adverse effect on the
health of individuals.
(3) FEDERAL RESEARCH STRATEGY.—The
term ‘‘Federal research strategy’’ means the
coordinated cross-agency plan for addressing
critical research gaps related to detecting,
assessing exposure to, and identifying the
adverse health effects of emerging contami-
nants in drinking water developed by the Of-
fice of Science and Technology Policy in re-
sponse to the report of the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate accompanying S.
1662 of the 115th Congress (S. Rept. 115–139).
(4) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT.—
The term ‘‘technical assistance and support’’
includes—
(A) assistance with—
(i) identifying appropriate analytical
methods for the detection of contaminants;
(ii) understanding the strengths and limi-
tations of the analytical methods described
in clause (i);
(iii) troubleshooting the analytical meth-
ods described in clause (i);
(B) providing advice on laboratory certifi-
cation program elements;
(C) interpreting sample analysis results;
(D) providing training with respect to
proper analytical techniques;
(E) identifying appropriate technology for
the treatment of contaminants; and
(F) analyzing samples, if—
(i) the analysis cannot be otherwise ob-
tained in a practicable manner otherwise;
and
(ii) the capability and capacity to perform
the analysis is available at a Federal facil-
ity.
(5) WORKING GROUP.—The term ‘‘Working
Group’’ means the Working Group estab-
lished under section 1742(b)(1).
SEC. 1742. RESEARCH AND COORDINATION PLAN
FOR ENHANCED RESPONSE ON
EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator
shall—
(1) review Federal efforts—
(A) to identify, monitor, and assist in the
development of treatment methods for
emerging contaminants; and
(B) to assist States in responding to the
human health risks posed by contaminants
of emerging concern; and
(2) in collaboration with owners and opera-
tors of public water systems, States, and
other interested stakeholders, establish a
strategic plan for improving the Federal ef-
forts referred to in paragraph (1).
(b) INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON
EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall jointly establish a
Working Group to coordinate the activities
of the Federal Government to identify and
analyze the public health effects of drinking
water contaminants of emerging concern.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The Working Group shall
include representatives of the following:
(A) The Environmental Protection Agency,
appointed by the Administrator.
(B) The following agencies, appointed by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services:
(i) The National Institutes of Health.
(ii) The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.
(iii) The Agency for Toxic Substances and
Disease Registry.
(C) The United States Geological Survey,
appointed by the Secretary of the Interior.
(D) Any other Federal agency the assist-
ance of which the Administrator determines
to be necessary to carry out this subsection,
appointed by the head of the respective agen-
cy.
(3) EXISTING WORKING GROUP.—The Admin-
istrator may expand or modify the duties of
an existing working group to perform the du-
ties of the Working Group under this sub-
section.
(c) NATIONAL EMERGING CONTAMINANT RE-
SEARCH INITIATIVE.—
(1) FEDERAL RESEARCH STRATEGY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy (referred to in this subsection
as the ‘‘Director’’) shall coordinate with the
heads of the agencies described in subpara-
graph (C) to establish a research initiative,
to be known as the ‘‘National Emerging Con-
taminant Research Initiative’’, that shall—
(i) use the Federal research strategy to im-
prove the identification, analysis, moni-
toring, and treatment methods of contami-
nants of emerging concern; and
(ii) develop any necessary program, policy,
or budget to support the implementation of
the Federal research strategy, including
mechanisms for joint agency review of re-
search proposals, for interagency cofunding
of research activities, and for information
sharing across agencies.
(B) RESEARCH ON EMERGING CONTAMI-
NANTS.—In carrying out subparagraph (A),
the Director shall—
(i) take into consideration consensus con-
clusions from peer-reviewed, pertinent re-
search on emerging contaminants; and
(ii) in consultation with the Adminis-
trator, identify priority emerging contami-
nants for research emphasis.
(C) FEDERAL PARTICIPATION.—The agencies
referred to in subparagraph (A) include—
(i) the National Science Foundation;
(ii) the National Institutes of Health;
(iii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(iv) the National Institute of Standards
and Technology;
(v) the United States Geological Survey;
and
(vi) any other Federal agency that contrib-
utes to research in water quality, environ-
mental exposures, and public health, as de-
termined by the Director.
(D) PARTICIPATION FROM ADDITIONAL ENTI-
TIES.—In carrying out subparagraph (A), the
Director shall consult with nongovernmental
organizations, State and local governments,
and science and research institutions deter-
mined by the Director to have scientific or
material interest in the National Emerging
Contaminant Research Initiative.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION OF RESEARCH REC-
OMMENDATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date on which the Director and
heads of the agencies described in paragraph
(1)(C) establish the National Emerging Con-
taminant Research Initiative under para-
graph (1)(A), the head of each agency de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(C) shall—
(i) issue a solicitation for research pro-
posals consistent with the Federal research
strategy; and
(ii) make grants to applicants that submit
research proposals selected by the National
Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative
in accordance with subparagraph (B).
(B) SELECTION OF RESEARCH PROPOSALS.—
The National Emerging Contaminant Re-
search Initiative shall select research pro-
posals to receive grants under this paragraph
on the basis of merit, using criteria identi-
fied by the Director, including the likelihood
that the proposed research will result in sig-
nificant progress toward achieving the objec-
tives identified in the Federal research strat-
egy.
(C) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—Any entity or
group of 2 or more entities may submit to
the head of each agency described in para-
graph (1)(C) a research proposal in response
to the solicitation for research proposals de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i), including—
(i) State and local agencies;
(ii) public institutions, including public in-
stitutions of higher education;
(iii) private corporations; and
(iv) nonprofit organizations.
(d) FEDERAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
SUPPORT FOR STATES.—
(1) STUDY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall conduct a study on ac-
tions the Administrator can take to increase
technical assistance and support for States
with respect to emerging contaminants in
drinking water samples.
(B) CONTENTS OF STUDY.—In carrying out
the study described in subparagraph (A), the
Administrator shall identify—
(i) methods and effective treatment op-
tions to increase technical assistance and
support with respect to emerging contami-
nants to States, including identifying oppor-
tunities for States to improve communica-
tion with various audiences about the risks
associated with emerging contaminants;
(ii) means to facilitate access to qualified
contract testing laboratory facilities that
conduct analyses for emerging contami-
nants; and
(iii) actions to be carried out at existing
Federal laboratory facilities, including the
research facilities of the Administrator, to
provide technical assistance and support for
States that require testing facilities for
emerging contaminants.
(C) AVAILABILITY OF ANALYTICAL RE-
SOURCES.—In carrying out the study de-
scribed in subparagraph (A), the Adminis-
trator shall consider—
(i) the availability of—
(I) Federal and non-Federal laboratory ca-
pacity; and
(II) validated methods to detect and ana-
lyze contaminants; and
(ii) other factors determined to be appro-
priate by the Administrator.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall submit to Congress a re-
port describing the results of the study de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
(3) PROGRAM TO PROVIDE FEDERAL ASSIST-
ANCE TO STATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act,
based on the findings in the report described
in paragraph (2), the Administrator shall de-
velop a program to provide technical assist-
ance and support to eligible States for the
testing and analysis of emerging contami-
nants.
(B) APPLICATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible for tech-
nical assistance and support under this para-
graph, a State shall submit to the Adminis-
trator an application at such time, in such
manner, and containing such information as
the Administrator may require.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00143 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.082 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3774 June 18, 2019
(ii) CRITERIA.—The Administrator shall
evaluate an application for technical assist-
ance and support under this paragraph on
the basis of merit using criteria identified by
the Administrator, including—
(I) the laboratory facilities available to the
State;
(II) the availability and applicability of ex-
isting analytical methodologies;
(III) the potency and severity of the emerg-
ing contaminant, if known; and
(IV) the prevalence and magnitude of the
emerging contaminant.
(iii) PRIORITIZATION.—In selecting States to
receive technical assistance and support
under this paragraph, the Administrator—
(I) shall give priority to States with af-
fected areas primarily in financially dis-
tressed communities;
(II) may—
(aa) waive the application process in an
emergency situation; and
(bb) require an abbreviated application
process for the continuation of work speci-
fied in a previously approved application
that continues to meet the criteria described
in clause (ii); and
(III) shall consider the relative expertise
and availability of—
(aa) Federal and non-Federal laboratory
capacity available to the State;
(bb) analytical resources available to the
State; and
(cc) other types of technical assistance
available to the State.
(C) DATABASE OF AVAILABLE RESOURCES.—
The Administrator shall establish and main-
tain a database of resources available
through the program developed under sub-
paragraph (A) to assist States with testing
for emerging contaminants that—
(i) is—
(I) available to States and stakeholder
groups determined by the Administrator to
have scientific or material interest in emerg-
ing contaminants, including—
(aa) drinking water and wastewater utili-
ties;
(bb) laboratories;
(cc) Federal and State emergency respond-
ers;
(dd) State primacy agencies;
(ee) public health agencies; and
(ff) water associations;
(II) searchable; and
(III) accessible through the website of the
Administrator; and
(ii) includes a description of—
(I) qualified contract testing laboratory fa-
cilities that conduct analyses for emerging
contaminants; and
(II) the resources available in Federal lab-
oratory facilities to test for emerging con-
taminants.
(D) WATER CONTAMINANT INFORMATION
TOOL.—The Administrator shall integrate
the database established under subparagraph
(C) into the Water Contaminant Information
Tool of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy.
(4) FUNDING.—Of the amounts available to
the Administrator, the Administrator may
use not more than $15,000,000 in a fiscal year
to carry out this subsection.
(e) REPORT.—Not less frequently than once
every 2 years until 2029, the Administrator
shall submit to Congress a report that de-
scribes the progress made in carrying out
this subtitle.
(f) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section modi-
fies any obligation of a State, local govern-
ment, or Indian Tribe with respect to treat-
ment methods for, or testing or monitoring
of, drinking water.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
SEC. 1751. PFAS DATA CALL.
Section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Con-
trol Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) PFAS DATA.—Not later than January
1, 2023, the Administrator shall promulgate a
rule in accordance with this subsection re-
quiring each person who has manufactured a
chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl
or polyfluoroalkyl substance in any year
since January 1, 2006, to submit to the Ad-
ministrator a report that includes, for each
year since January 1, 2006, the information
described in paragraph (2).’’.
SEC. 1752. SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE FOR
LONG-CHAIN PFAS.
Not later than June 22, 2020, the Adminis-
trator shall take final action on the signifi-
cant new use rule proposed by the Adminis-
trator under the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) in the proposed
rule entitled ‘‘Long-Chain Perfluoroalkyl
Carboxylate and Perfluoroalkyl Sulfonate
Chemical Substances; Significant New Use
Rule’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 2885 (January 21, 2015)).
SEC. 1753. PFAS DESTRUCTION AND DISPOSAL
GUIDANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall publish interim guid-
ance on the destruction and disposal of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances and materials containing
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, including—
(1) aqueous film-forming foam;
(2) soil and biosolids;
(3) textiles treated with perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
(4) spent filters, membranes, and other
waste from water treatment.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS; INCLUSIONS.—The in-
terim guidance under subsection (a) shall—
(1) take into consideration—
(A) the potential for releases of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances during destruction or disposal, in-
cluding through volatilization, air disper-
sion, or leachate; and
(B) potentially vulnerable populations liv-
ing near likely destruction or disposal sites;
and
(2) provide guidance on testing and moni-
toring air, effluent, and soil near potential
destruction or disposal sites for releases de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(A).
(c) REVISIONS.—The Administrator shall
publish revisions to the interim guidance
under subsection (a) as the Administrator
determines to be appropriate, but not less
frequently than once every 3 years.
SEC. 1754. PFAS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator, act-
ing through the Assistant Administrator for
the Office of Research and Development,
shall—
(1)(A) further examine the effects of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances on human health and the environ-
ment; and
(B) make publicly available information
relating to the findings under subparagraph
(A);
(2) develop a process for prioritizing which
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances, or classes of perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances, should be sub-
ject to additional research or regulatory ef-
forts that is based on—
(A) the potential for human exposure to
the substances or classes of substances;
(B) the potential toxicity of the substances
or classes of substances; and
(C) information available about the sub-
stances or classes of substances;
(3) develop new tools to characterize and
identify perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances in the environment, including in
drinking water, wastewater, surface water,
groundwater, solids, and the air;
(4) evaluate approaches for the remedi-
ation of contamination by perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the envi-
ronment; and
(5) develop and implement new tools and
materials to communicate with the public
about perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances.
(b) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be ap-
propriated to the Administrator to carry out
this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.
SA 746. Mr. BURR (for himself and
Mr. WARNER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
DIVISION—INTELLIGENCE
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This division may be
cited as the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Mat-
thew Young Pollard Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this division is as follows:
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified schedule of authoriza-
tions.
Sec. 103. Intelligence community manage-
ment account.
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DIS-
ABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE III—INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
MATTERS
Subtitle A—General Intelligence Community
Matters
Sec. 301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Sec. 302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 303. Improving the onboarding method-
ology for certain intelligence
personnel.
Sec. 304. Intelligence community public-pri-
vate talent exchange.
Sec. 305. Expansion of scope of protections
for identities of covert agents.
Sec. 306. Inclusion of security risks in pro-
gram management plans re-
quired for acquisition of major
systems in National Intel-
ligence Program.
Sec. 307. Paid parental leave.
Subtitle B—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Sec. 311. Exclusivity, consistency, and
transparency in security clear-
ance procedures.
Sec. 312. Limitation on transfer of National
Intelligence University.
Sec. 313. Improving visibility into the secu-
rity clearance process.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00144 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.082 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3775
June 18, 2019
Sec. 314. Making certain policies and execu-
tion plans relating to personnel
clearances available to industry
partners.
Subtitle C—Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community
Sec. 321. Definitions.
Sec. 322. Inspector General external review
panel.
Sec. 323. Harmonization of whistleblower
processes and procedures.
Sec. 324. Intelligence community oversight
of agency whistleblower ac-
tions.
Sec. 325. Report on cleared whistleblower at-
torneys.
TITLE IV—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Sec. 401. Study on foreign employment of
former personnel of intelligence
community.
Sec. 402. Comprehensive economic assess-
ment of investment in key
United States technologies by
companies or organizations
linked to China.
Sec. 403. Analysis of and periodic briefings
on major initiatives of intel-
ligence community in artificial
intelligence and machine learn-
ing.
Sec. 404. Encouraging cooperative actions to
detect and counter foreign in-
fluence operations.
Sec. 405. Oversight of foreign influence in
academia.
Sec. 406. Director of National Intelligence
report on fifth-generation wire-
less network technology.
Sec. 407. Annual report by Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States on cy-
bersecurity and surveillance
threats to Congress.
Sec. 408. Director of National Intelligence
assessments of foreign inter-
ference in elections.
Sec. 409. Study on feasibility and advis-
ability of establishing
Geospatial-Intelligence Mu-
seum and learning center.
Sec. 410. Report on death of Jamal
Khashoggi.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in such section.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2020 for the conduct of
the intelligence and intelligence-related ac-
tivities of the following elements of the
United States Government:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5) The National Security Agency.
(6) The Department of the Army, the De-
partment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force.
(7) The Coast Guard.
(8) The Department of State.
(9) The Department of the Treasury.
(10) The Department of Energy.
(11) The Department of Justice.
(12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13) The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
(14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(16) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.
(a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS.—The
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
section 101 for the conduct of the intel-
ligence activities of the elements listed in
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are
those specified in the classified Schedule of
Authorizations prepared to accompany this
division.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE
OF AUTHORIZATIONS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY.—The classified Schedule
of Authorizations referred to in subsection
(a) shall be made available to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives, and to the President.
(2) DISTRIBUTION BY THE PRESIDENT.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (3), the President shall pro-
vide for suitable distribution of the classified
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in
subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of
such Schedule, within the executive branch.
(3) LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE.—The President
shall not publicly disclose the classified
Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of
such Schedule except—
(A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Im-
plementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
(B) to the extent necessary to implement
the budget; or
(C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGE-
MENT ACCOUNT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account of the Director of National Intel-
ligence for fiscal year 2020 the sum of
$558,000,000.
(b) CLASSIFIED AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
Community Management Account by sub-
section (a), there are authorized to be appro-
priated for the Intelligence Community Man-
agement Account for fiscal year 2020 such ad-
ditional amounts as are specified in the clas-
sified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
in section 102(a).
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-
TEM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal
year 2020.
TITLE III—INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
MATTERS
Subtitle A—General Intelligence Community
Matters
SEC. 301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTEL-
LIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
The authorization of appropriations by
this division shall not be deemed to con-
stitute authority for the conduct of any in-
telligence activity which is not otherwise
authorized by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States.
SEC. 302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSA-
TION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED
BY LAW.
Appropriations authorized by this division
for salary, pay, retirement, and other bene-
fits for Federal employees may be increased
by such additional or supplemental amounts
as may be necessary for increases in such
compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 303. IMPROVING THE ONBOARDING METH-
ODOLOGY FOR CERTAIN INTEL-
LIGENCE PERSONNEL.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Select Committee on Intelligence
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate; and
(B) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives.
(2) COVERED ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY.—The term ‘‘covered elements of
the intelligence community’’ means the ele-
ments of the intelligence community that
are within the following:
(A) The Department of Energy.
(B) The Department of Homeland Security.
(C) The Department of Justice.
(D) The Department of State.
(E) The Department of the Treasury.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
and the Director of National Intelligence
shall, consistent with Department of Defense
Instruction 1400.25, as in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act—
(1) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report
that outlines a common methodology for
measuring onboarding in covered elements of
the intelligence community, including
human resources and security processes;
(2) not later than 1 year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, issue metrics for
assessing key phases in the onboarding de-
scribed in paragraph (1) for which results
will be reported by the date that is 90 days
after the date of such issuance;
(3) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report on
collaboration among covered elements of the
intelligence community on their onboarding
processes;
(4) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report on
employment of automated mechanisms in
covered elements of the intelligence commu-
nity, including for tracking personnel as
they pass through each phase of the
onboarding process; and
(5) not later than December 31, 2020, dis-
tribute surveys to human resources offices
and applicants about their experiences with
the onboarding process in covered elements
of the intelligence community.
SEC. 304. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PUBLIC-
PRIVATE TALENT EXCHANGE.
(a) POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND PROCEDURES
REQUIRED.—Not later than 270 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall develop
policies, processes, and procedures to facili-
tate the rotation of personnel of the intel-
ligence community to the private sector, and
personnel from the private sector to the in-
telligence community.
(b) DETAIL AUTHORITY.—Under policies de-
veloped by the Director pursuant to sub-
section (a), with the agreement of a private-
sector organization, and with the consent of
the employee, a head of an element of the in-
telligence community may arrange for the
temporary detail of an employee of such ele-
ment to such private-sector organization, or
from such private-sector organization to
such element under this section.
(c) AGREEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A head of an element of
the intelligence community exercising the
authority of the head under subsection (a)
shall provide for a written agreement among
the element of the intelligence community,
the private-sector organization, and the em-
ployee concerned regarding the terms and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00145 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3776 June 18, 2019
conditions of the employee’s detail under
this section. The agreement—
(A) shall require that the employee of the
element, upon completion of the detail, serve
in the element, or elsewhere in the civil
service if approved by the head of the ele-
ment, for a period of at least equal to the
length of the detail;
(B) shall provide that if the employee of
the element fails to carry out the agreement,
such employee shall be liable to the United
States for payment of all non-salary and
benefit expenses of the detail, unless that
failure was for good and sufficient reason, as
determined by the head of the element;
(C) shall contain language informing such
employee of the prohibition on improperly
sharing or using non-public information that
such employee may be privy to or aware of
related to element programming, budgeting,
resourcing, acquisition, or procurement for
the benefit or advantage of the private-sec-
tor organization; and
(D) shall contain language requiring the
employee to acknowledge the obligations of
the employee under section 1905 of title 18,
United States Code (relating to trade se-
crets).
(2) AMOUNT OF LIABILITY.—An amount for
which an employee is liable under paragraph
(1) shall be treated as a debt due the United
States.
(3) WAIVER.—The head of an element of the
intelligence community may waive, in whole
or in part, collection of a debt described in
paragraph (2) based on a determination that
the collection would be against equity and
good conscience and not in the best interests
of the United States, after taking into ac-
count any indication of fraud, misrepresen-
tation, fault, or lack of good faith on the
part of the employee.
(d) TERMINATION.—A detail under this sec-
tion may, at any time and for any reason, be
terminated by the head of the element of the
intelligence community concerned or the
private-sector organization concerned.
(e) DURATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A detail under this sec-
tion shall be for a period of not less than 3
months and not more than 2 years, renew-
able up to a total of 3 years.
(2) LONGER PERIODS.—A detail under this
section may be for a period in excess of 2
years, but not more than 3 years, if the head
of the element making the detail determines
that such detail is necessary to meet critical
mission or program requirements.
(3) LIMITATION.—No employee of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community may be
detailed under this section for more than a
total of 5 years, inclusive of all such details.
(f) STATUS OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES DE-
TAILED TO PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An employee of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community who is
detailed to a private-sector organization
under this section shall be considered, during
the period of detail, to be on a regular work
assignment in the element for all purposes.
The written agreement established under
subsection (c)(1) shall address the specific
terms and conditions related to the employ-
ee’s continued status as a Federal employee.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—In establishing a tem-
porary detail of an employee of an element
of the intelligence community to a private-
sector organization, the head of the element
shall—
(A) certify that the temporary detail of
such employee shall not have an adverse or
negative impact on mission attainment or
organizational capabilities associated with
the detail; and
(B) in the case of an element of the intel-
ligence community in the Department of De-
fense, ensure that the normal duties and
functions of such employees are not, as a re-
sult of and during the course of such tem-
porary detail, performed or augmented by
contractor personnel in violation of the pro-
visions of section 2461 of title 10, United
States Code.
(g) TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR PRIVATE-
SECTOR EMPLOYEES.—An employee of a pri-
vate-sector organization who is detailed to
an element of the intelligence community
under this section—
(1) shall continue to receive pay and bene-
fits from the private-sector organization
from which such employee is detailed and
shall not receive pay or benefits from the
element, except as provided in paragraph (2);
(2) is deemed to be an employee of the ele-
ment for the purposes of—
(A) chapters 73 and 81 of title 5, United
States Code;
(B) sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 209, 603,
606, 607, 643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of title 18,
United States Code;
(C) sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title
31, United States Code;
(D) chapter 171 of title 28, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort
Claims Act’’) and any other Federal tort li-
ability statute;
(E) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.); and
(F) chapter 21 of title 41, United States
Code;
(3) may perform work that is considered in-
herently governmental in nature only when
requested in writing by the head of the ele-
ment;
(4) may not be used to circumvent any lim-
itation or restriction on the size of the work-
force of the element;
(5) shall be subject to the same require-
ments applicable to an employee performing
the same functions and duties proposed for
performance by the private sector employee;
and
(6) in the case of an element of the intel-
ligence community in the Department of De-
fense, may not be used to circumvent the
provisions of section 2461 of title 10, United
States Code.
(h) PROHIBITION AGAINST CHARGING CERTAIN
COSTS TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—A pri-
vate-sector organization may not charge an
element of the intelligence community or
any other agency of the Federal Govern-
ment, as direct costs under a Federal con-
tract, the costs of pay or benefits paid by the
organization to an employee detailed to an
element of the intelligence community
under this section for the period of the detail
and any subsequent renewal periods.
(i) ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS.—
In carrying out this section, the Director,
pursuant to procedures developed under sub-
section (a)—
(1) shall, to the degree practicable, ensure
that small business concerns are represented
with respect to details authorized by this
section;
(2) may, notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, establish criteria for elements of
the intelligence community to use appro-
priated funds to reimburse small business
concerns for the salaries and benefits of its
employees during the periods when the small
business concern agrees to detail its employ-
ees to the intelligence community under this
section;
(3) shall take into consideration the ques-
tion of how details under this section might
best be used to help meet the needs of the in-
telligence community, including with re-
spect to the training of employees;
(4) shall take into consideration areas of
private-sector expertise that are critical to
the intelligence community; and
(5) shall establish oversight mechanisms to
determine whether the public-private ex-
change authorized by this section improves
the efficiency and effectiveness of the intel-
ligence community.
(j) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DETAIL.—The term ‘‘detail’’ means, as
appropriate in the context in which such
term is used—
(A) the assignment or loan of an employee
of an element of the intelligence community
to a private-sector organization without a
change of position from the intelligence
community element that employs the indi-
vidual; or
(B) the assignment or loan of an employee
of a private-sector organization to an ele-
ment of the intelligence community without
a change of position from the private-sector
organization that employs the individual.
(2) PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATION.—The
term ‘‘private-sector organization’’ means—
(A) a for-profit organization; or
(B) a not-for-profit organization.
(3) SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN.—The term
‘‘small business concern’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 3703(e)(2) of title
5, United States Code.
SEC. 305. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF PROTEC-
TIONS FOR IDENTITIES OF COVERT
AGENTS.
Section 605(4) of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3126(4)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) by striking clause (ii);
(B) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘, and’’ and in-
serting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘agency—’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘whose identity’’ and inserting
‘‘agency whose identity’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ‘‘re-
sides and acts outside the United States’’
and inserting ‘‘acts’’.
SEC. 306. INCLUSION OF SECURITY RISKS IN PRO-
GRAM MANAGEMENT PLANS RE-
QUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF
MAJOR SYSTEMS IN NATIONAL IN-
TELLIGENCE PROGRAM.
Section 102A(q)(1)(A) of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(q)(1)(A)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘security risks,’’ after
‘‘schedule,’’.
SEC. 307. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to—
(1) help the intelligence community recruit
and retain a dynamic, multi-talented, and di-
verse workforce capable of meeting the secu-
rity goals of the United States; and
(2) establish best practices and processes
for other elements of the Federal Govern-
ment seeking to pursue similar policies.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF PAID PARENTAL
LEAVE FOR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY EM-
PLOYEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3071 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 304 the
following:
‘‘SEC. 305. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.
‘‘(a) PAID PARENTAL LEAVE.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, a civil-
ian employee of an element of the intel-
ligence community shall have available a
total of 12 administrative workweeks of paid
parental leave in the event of the birth of a
son or daughter to the employee, or place-
ment of a son or daughter with the employee
for adoption or foster care, and in order to
care for such son or daughter, to be used dur-
ing the 12-month period beginning on the
date of the birth or placement.
‘‘(b) TREATMENT OF PARENTAL LEAVE RE-
QUEST.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law—
‘‘(1) an element of the intelligence commu-
nity shall accommodate an employee’s leave
schedule request under subsection (a), in-
cluding a request to use such leave intermit-
tently or on a reduced leave schedule, to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00146 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3777
June 18, 2019
extent that the requested leave schedule
does not unduly disrupt agency operations;
and
‘‘(2) to the extent that an employee’s re-
quested leave schedule as described in para-
graph (1) is based on medical necessity re-
lated to a serious health condition connected
to the birth of a son or daughter, the em-
ploying element shall handle the scheduling
consistent with the treatment of employees
who are using leave under subparagraph (C)
or (D) of section 6382(a)(1) of title 5, United
States Code.
‘‘(c) RULES RELATING TO PAID LEAVE.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law—
‘‘(1) an employee may not be required to
first use all or any portion of any unpaid
leave available to the employee before being
allowed to use the paid parental leave de-
scribed in subsection (a); and
‘‘(2) paid parental leave under subsection
(a)—
‘‘(A) shall be payable from any appropria-
tion or fund available for salaries or ex-
penses for positions within the employing
element;
‘‘(B) may not be considered to be annual or
vacation leave for purposes of section 5551 or
5552 of title 5, United States Code, or for any
other purpose;
‘‘(C) if not used by the employee before the
end of the 12-month period described in sub-
section (a) to which the leave relates, may
not be available for any subsequent use and
may not be converted into a cash payment;
‘‘(D) may be granted only to the extent
that the employee does not receive a total of
more than 12 weeks of paid parental leave in
any 12-month period beginning on the date of
a birth or placement;
‘‘(E) may not be granted—
‘‘(i) in excess of a lifetime aggregate total
of 30 administrative workweeks based on
placements of a foster child for any indi-
vidual employee; or
‘‘(ii) in connection with temporary foster
care placements expected to last less than 1
year;
‘‘(F) may not be granted for a child being
placed for foster care or adoption if such
leave was previously granted to the same
employee when the same child was placed
with the employee for foster care in the past;
‘‘(G) shall be used in increments of hours
(or fractions thereof), with 12 administrative
workweeks equal to 480 hours for employees
with a regular full-time work schedule and
converted to a proportional number of hours
for employees with part-time, seasonal, or
uncommon tours of duty; and
‘‘(H) may not be used during off-season
(nonpay status) periods for employees with
seasonal work schedules.
‘‘(d) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this section, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall provide the congressional intel-
ligence committees with an implementation
plan that includes—
‘‘(1) processes and procedures for imple-
menting the paid parental leave policies
under subsections (a) through (c);
‘‘(2) an explanation of how the implemen-
tation of subsections (a) through (c) will be
reconciled with policies of other elements of
the Federal Government, including the im-
pact on elements funded by the National In-
telligence Program that are housed within
agencies outside the intelligence commu-
nity;
‘‘(3) the projected impact of the implemen-
tation of subsections (a) through (c) on the
workforce of the intelligence community, in-
cluding take rates, retention, recruiting, and
morale, broken down by each element of the
intelligence community; and
‘‘(4) all costs or operational expenses asso-
ciated with the implementation of sub-
sections (a) through (c).
‘‘(e) DIRECTIVE.—Not later than 90 days
after the Director of National Intelligence
submits the implementation plan under sub-
section (d), the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall issue a written directive to im-
plement this section, which directive shall
take effect on the date of issuance.
‘‘(f) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees an an-
nual report that—
‘‘(1) details the number of employees of
each element of the intelligence community
who applied for and took paid parental leave
under subsection (a) during the year covered
by the report; and
‘‘(2) includes updates on major implemen-
tation challenges or costs associated with
paid parental leave.
‘‘(g) DEFINITION OF SON OR DAUGHTER.—For
purposes of this section, the term ‘son or
daughter’ has the meaning given the term in
section 6381 of title 5, United States Code.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3002) is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 304 the following:
‘‘Sec. 305. Paid parental leave.’’.
(c) APPLICABILITY.—Section 305 of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947, as added by sub-
section (b), shall apply with respect to leave
taken in connection with the birth or place-
ment of a son or daughter that occurs on or
after the date on which the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence issues the written direc-
tive under subsection (e) of such section 305.
Subtitle B—Office of the Director of National
Intelligence
SEC. 311. EXCLUSIVITY, CONSISTENCY, AND
TRANSPARENCY IN SECURITY
CLEARANCE PROCEDURES.
(a) EXCLUSIVITY OF PROCEDURES.—Section
801 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3161) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(c) EXCLUSIVITY.—Except as provided in
subsection (b) and subject to sections 801A
and 801B, the procedures established pursu-
ant to subsection (a) shall be the exclusive
procedures by which decisions about eligi-
bility for access to classified information are
governed.’’.
(b) TRANSPARENCY.—Such section is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(d) PUBLICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, the President shall—
‘‘(A) publish in the Federal Register the
procedures established pursuant to sub-
section (a); or
‘‘(B) submit to Congress a certification
that the procedures currently in effect that
govern access to classified information as de-
scribed in subsection (a)—
‘‘(i) are published in the Federal Register;
and
‘‘(ii) comply with the requirements of sub-
section (a).
‘‘(2) UPDATES.—Whenever the President
makes a revision to a procedure established
pursuant to subsection (a), the President
shall publish such revision in the Federal
Register not later than 30 days before the
date on which the revision becomes effec-
tive.’’.
(c) CONSISTENCY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title VIII of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 801 the
following:
‘‘SEC. 801A. DECISIONS RELATING TO ACCESS TO
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘agency’ has the
meaning given the term ‘Executive agency’
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(2) CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The term
‘classified information’ includes sensitive
compartmented information, restricted data,
restricted handling information, and other
compartmented information.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.—The term ‘eligibility for ac-
cess to classified information’ has the mean-
ing given such term in the procedures estab-
lished pursuant to section 801(a).
‘‘(b) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
that makes a determination regarding eligi-
bility for access to classified information
shall ensure that in making the determina-
tion, the head of the agency or any person
acting on behalf of the agency—
‘‘(1) does not violate any right or protec-
tion enshrined in the Constitution of the
United States, including rights articulated
in the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amend-
ments;
‘‘(2) does not discriminate for or against an
individual on the basis of race, color, reli-
gion, sex, national origin, age, or handicap;
‘‘(3) is not carrying out—
‘‘(A) retaliation for political activities or
beliefs; or
‘‘(B) a coercion or reprisal described in sec-
tion 2302(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code;
and
‘‘(4) does not violate section 3001(j)(1) of
the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Pre-
vention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3002) is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 801 the following:
‘‘Sec. 801A. Decisions relating to access to
classified information.’’.
SEC. 312. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY.
(a) LIMITATION.—Neither the Secretary of
Defense nor the Director of National Intel-
ligence may commence any activity to
transfer the National Intelligence University
out of the Defense Intelligence Agency until
the Secretary and the Director jointly cer-
tify each of the following:
(1) The National Intelligence University
has positively adjudicated its warning from
the Middle States Commission on Higher
Education and had its regional accreditation
fully restored.
(2) The National Intelligence University
will serve as the exclusive means by which
advanced intelligence education is provided
to personnel of the Department of Defense.
(3) Military personnel will receive joint
professional military education from a Na-
tional Intelligence University location at a
non-Department of Defense agency.
(4) The Department of Education will allow
the Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence to grant advanced educational de-
grees.
(5) A governance model jointly led by the
Director and the Secretary of Defense is in
place for the National Intelligence Univer-
sity.
(b) COST ESTIMATES.—
(1) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES
OF CONGRESS.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives.
(2) IN GENERAL.—Before commencing any
activity to transfer the National Intelligence
University out of the Defense Intelligence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00147 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3778 June 18, 2019
Agency, the Secretary of Defense and the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall jointly
submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress an estimate of the direct and indi-
rect costs of operating the National Intel-
ligence University and the costs of transfer-
ring the National Intelligence University to
another agency.
(3) CONTENTS.—The estimate submitted
under paragraph (2) shall include all indirect
costs, including with respect to human re-
sources, security, facilities, and information
technology.
SEC. 313. IMPROVING VISIBILITY INTO THE SECU-
RITY CLEARANCE PROCESS.
(a) DEFINITION OF SECURITY EXECUTIVE
AGENT.—In this section, the term ‘‘Security
Executive Agent’’ means the officer serving
as the Security Executive Agent pursuant to
section 803 of the National Security Act of
1947, as added by section 605 of division B.
(b) POLICY REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall
issue a policy that requires the head of each
Federal agency to create, not later than De-
cember 31, 2023, an electronic portal that can
be used by human resources personnel and
applicants for security clearances to view in-
formation about the status of an application
for a security clearance and the average time
required for each phase of the security clear-
ance process.
SEC. 314. MAKING CERTAIN POLICIES AND EXE-
CUTION PLANS RELATING TO PER-
SONNEL CLEARANCES AVAILABLE
TO INDUSTRY PARTNERS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE INDUSTRY PARTNER.—The
term ‘‘appropriate industry partner’’ means
a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined
in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to National Indus-
trial Security Program), as in effect on the
day before the date of the enactment of this
Act) that is participating in the National In-
dustrial Security Program established by
such Executive Order.
(2) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘‘Security Executive Agent’’ means the offi-
cer serving as the Security Executive Agent
pursuant to section 803 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947, as added by section 605 of di-
vision B.
(b) SHARING OF POLICIES AND PLANS RE-
QUIRED.—Each head of a Federal agency shall
share policies and plans relating to security
clearances with appropriate industry part-
ners directly affected by such policies and
plans in a manner consistent with the pro-
tection of national security as well as the
goals and objectives of the National Indus-
trial Security Program administered pursu-
ant to Executive Order 12829 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to the National Industrial Se-
curity Program).
(c) DEVELOPMENT OF POLICIES AND PROCE-
DURES REQUIRED.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Direc-
tor of the National Industrial Security Pro-
gram shall jointly develop policies and pro-
cedures by which appropriate industry part-
ners with proper security clearances and a
need to know can have appropriate access to
the policies and plans shared pursuant to
subsection (b) that directly affect those in-
dustry partners.
Subtitle C—Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community
SEC. 321. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) WHISTLEBLOWER.—The term ‘‘whistle-
blower’’ means a person who makes a whis-
tleblower disclosure.
(2) WHISTLEBLOWER DISCLOSURE.—The term
‘‘whistleblower disclosure’’ means a disclo-
sure that is protected under section 1104 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3234) or section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence
Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
(50 U.S.C. 3341(j)).
SEC. 322. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL RE-
VIEW PANEL.
(a) AUTHORITY TO CONVENE EXTERNAL RE-
VIEW PANELS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title XI of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 1105. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL RE-
VIEW PANEL.
‘‘(a) REQUEST FOR REVIEW.—An individual
with a claim described in subsection (b) may
submit to the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community a request for a review of
such claim by an external review panel con-
vened under subsection (c).
‘‘(b) CLAIMS AND INDIVIDUALS DESCRIBED.—
A claim described in this subsection is any—
‘‘(1) claim by an individual—
‘‘(A) that the individual has been subjected
to a personnel action that is prohibited
under section 1104; and
‘‘(B) who has exhausted the applicable re-
view process for the claim pursuant to en-
forcement of such section; or
‘‘(2) claim by an individual—
‘‘(A) that he or she has been subjected to a
reprisal prohibited by paragraph (1) of sec-
tion 3001(j) of the Intelligence Reform and
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C.
3341(j)); and
‘‘(B) who received a decision on an appeal
regarding that claim under paragraph (4) of
such section.
‘‘(c) EXTERNAL REVIEW PANEL CONVENED.—
‘‘(1) DISCRETION TO CONVENE.—Upon receipt
of a request under subsection (a) regarding a
claim, the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community may, at the discretion of
the Inspector General, convene an external
review panel under this subsection to review
the claim.
‘‘(2) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(A) COMPOSITION.—An external review
panel convened under this subsection shall
be composed of three members as follows:
‘‘(i) The Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community.
‘‘(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), two members selected by the Inspector
General as the Inspector General considers
appropriate on a case-by-case basis from
among inspectors general of the following:
‘‘(I) The Department of Defense.
‘‘(II) The Department of Energy.
‘‘(III) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
‘‘(IV) The Department of Justice.
‘‘(V) The Department of State.
‘‘(VI) The Department of the Treasury.
‘‘(VII) The Central Intelligence Agency.
‘‘(VIII) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
‘‘(IX) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
‘‘(X) The National Reconnaissance Office.
‘‘(XI) The National Security Agency.
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—An inspector general of
an agency may not be selected to sit on the
panel under subparagraph (A)(ii) to review
any matter relating to a decision made by
such agency.
‘‘(C) CHAIRPERSON.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the chairperson of any panel con-
vened under this subsection shall be the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
‘‘(ii) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—If the Inspec-
tor General of the Intelligence Community
finds cause to recuse himself or herself from
a panel convened under this subsection, the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity shall—
‘‘(I) select a chairperson from inspectors
general of the elements listed under subpara-
graph (A)(ii) whom the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community considers appro-
priate; and
‘‘(II) notify the congressional intelligence
committees of such selection.
‘‘(3) PERIOD OF REVIEW.—Each external re-
view panel convened under this subsection to
review a claim shall complete review of the
claim no later than 270 days after the date
on which the Inspector General convenes the
external review panel.
‘‘(d) REMEDIES.—
‘‘(1) PANEL RECOMMENDATIONS.—If an exter-
nal review panel convened under subsection
(c) determines, pursuant to a review of a
claim submitted by an individual under sub-
section (a), that the individual was the sub-
ject of a personnel action prohibited under
section 1104 or was subjected to a reprisal
prohibited by section 3001(j)(1) of the Intel-
ligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention
Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)), the panel
may recommend that the agency head take
corrective action—
‘‘(A) in the case of an employee or former
employee—
‘‘(i) to return the employee or former em-
ployee, as nearly as practicable and reason-
able, to the position such employee or
former employee would have held had the re-
prisal not occurred; or
‘‘(ii) reconsider the employee’s or former
employee’s eligibility for access to classified
information consistent with national secu-
rity; or
‘‘(B) in any other case, such other action as
the external review panel considers appro-
priate.
‘‘(2) AGENCY ACTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date on which the head of an agen-
cy receives a recommendation from an exter-
nal review panel under paragraph (1), the
head shall—
‘‘(i) give full consideration to such rec-
ommendation; and
‘‘(ii) inform the panel and the Director of
National Intelligence of what action the
head has taken with respect to the rec-
ommendation.
‘‘(B) FAILURE TO INFORM.—The Director
shall notify the President of any failures to
comply with subparagraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(e) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each year, the Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees and
the Director of National Intelligence a re-
port on the activities under this section dur-
ing the previous year.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Subject to such limita-
tions as the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community considers necessary to
protect the privacy of an individual who has
made a claim described in subsection (b),
each report submitted under paragraph (1)
shall include, for the period covered by the
report, the following:
‘‘(A) The determinations and recommenda-
tions made by the external review panels
convened under this section.
‘‘(B) The responses of the heads of agencies
that received recommendations from the ex-
ternal review panels.’’.
(2) TABLE OF CONTENTS AMENDMENT.—The
table of contents in the first section of the
National Security Act of 1947 is amended by
adding at the end the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 1105. Inspector General external re-
view panel.’’.
(b) RECOMMENDATION ON ADDRESSING WHIS-
TLEBLOWER APPEALS RELATING TO REPRISAL
COMPLAINTS AGAINST INSPECTORS GENERAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00148 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3779
June 18, 2019
the Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a rec-
ommendation on how to ensure that—
(A) a whistleblower in the intelligence
community who has a complaint against an
inspector general in the intelligence commu-
nity and who alleges a reprisal, has available
the agency adjudication and appellate review
provided under section 1104 of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3234); and
(B) any such whistleblower who has ex-
hausted the applicable review process may
request an external review panel and receive
one, at the discretion of the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Intelligence Community.
(2) CONTENTS.—The recommendation sub-
mitted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall in-
clude the following:
(A) A discussion of whether and to what de-
gree section 1105 of the National Security
Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a)(1),
provides appropriate authorities and mecha-
nisms to provide an external review panel as
described in paragraph (1) of this subsection
and for the purposes described in such para-
graph.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Inspector
General may have with respect to providing
an external review panel as described in
paragraph (1) and for the purposes described
in such paragraph.
SEC. 323. HARMONIZATION OF WHISTLEBLOWER
PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community, in coordination with the Intel-
ligence Community Inspectors General
Forum, shall develop recommendations, ap-
plicable to all inspectors general of elements
of the intelligence community, regarding the
harmonization of instructions, policies, and
directives relating to processes, procedures,
and timelines for claims and appeals relating
to allegations of personnel actions prohib-
ited under section 1104 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 or reprisals prohibited by
section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50
U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).
(b) TRANSPARENCY AND PROTECTION.—In de-
veloping recommendations under subsection
(a), the Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community shall make efforts to maximize
transparency and protect whistleblowers.
SEC. 324. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY OVER-
SIGHT OF AGENCY WHISTLEBLOWER
ACTIONS.
(a) FEASIBILITY STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity, in consultation with the Intelligence
Community Inspectors General Forum, shall
complete a feasibility study on establishing
a hotline whereby all complaints of whistle-
blowers relating to the intelligence commu-
nity are automatically referred to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The feasibility study con-
ducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall in-
clude the following:
(A) The anticipated number of annual
whistleblower complaints received by all ele-
ments of the intelligence community.
(B) The additional resources required to
implement the hotline, including personnel
and technology.
(C) The resulting budgetary effects.
(D) Findings from the system established
pursuant to subsection (b).
(b) OVERSIGHT SYSTEM REQUIRED.—Not
later than 180 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community shall establish a
system whereby the Inspector General is pro-
vided, in near real time, the following:
(1) All information relating to complaints
by whistleblowers relating to the programs
and activities under the jurisdiction of the
Director of National Intelligence.
(2) Any inspector general actions relating
to such complaints.
(c) PRIVACY PROTECTIONS.—
(1) POLICIES AND PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—
Before establishing the system required by
subsection (b), the Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community shall establish poli-
cies and procedures to protect the privacy of
whistleblowers and protect against further
dissemination of whistleblower information
without consent of the whistleblower.
(2) CONTROL OF DISTRIBUTION.—The system
established under subsection (b) shall pro-
vide whistleblowers the option of prohibiting
distribution of their complaints to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
SEC. 325. REPORT ON CLEARED WHISTLEBLOWER
ATTORNEYS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a report
on access to cleared attorneys by whistle-
blowers in the intelligence community.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report submitted pur-
suant to subsection (a) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(1) The number of whistleblowers in the in-
telligence community who sought to retain a
cleared attorney and at what stage they
sought such an attorney.
(2) For the 3-year period preceding the re-
port, the following:
(A) The number of limited security agree-
ments (LSAs).
(B) The scope and clearance levels of such
limited security agreements.
(C) The number of whistleblowers rep-
resented by cleared counsel.
(3) Recommendations for legislative or ad-
ministrative action to ensure that whistle-
blowers in the intelligence community have
access to cleared attorneys, including im-
provements to the limited security agree-
ment process and such other options as the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity considers appropriate.
(c) SURVEY.—The Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community shall ensure that
the report submitted under subsection (a) is
based on—
(1) data from a survey of whistleblowers
whose claims are reported to the Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community by
means of the oversight system established
pursuant to section 324;
(2) information obtained from the inspec-
tors general of the intelligence community;
or
(3) information from such other sources as
may be identified by the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community.
TITLE IV—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
SEC. 401. STUDY ON FOREIGN EMPLOYMENT OF
FORMER PERSONNEL OF INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) STUDY.—The Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Secretary
of Defense and the Secretary of State, shall
conduct a study of matters relating to the
foreign employment of former personnel of
the intelligence community.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study conducted pur-
suant to subsection (a) shall address the fol-
lowing:
(1) Issues that pertain to former employees
of the intelligence community working with,
or in support of, foreign governments, and
the nature and scope of those concerns.
(2) Such legislative or administrative ac-
tion as may be necessary for both front-end
screening and in-progress oversight by the
Director of Defense Trade Controls of li-
censes issued by the Director for former em-
ployees of the intelligence community work-
ing for foreign governments.
(3) How increased requirements could be
imposed for periodic compliance reporting
when licenses are granted for companies or
organizations that employ former personnel
of the intelligence community to execute
contracts with foreign governments.
(c) REPORT AND PLAN.—
(1) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES
OF CONGRESS.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
(2) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress—
(A) a report on the findings of the Director
with respect to the study conducted pursu-
ant to subsection (a); and
(B) a plan to carry out such administrative
actions as the Director considers appropriate
pursuant to the findings described in sub-
paragraph (A).
SEC. 402. COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC ASSESS-
MENT OF INVESTMENT IN KEY
UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGIES BY
COMPANIES OR ORGANIZATIONS
LINKED TO CHINA.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Director of
the National Counterintelligence and Secu-
rity Center, the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, the Director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, the Secretary
of the Treasury, and the heads of such other
Federal agencies as the Director of National
Intelligence considers appropriate, shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a comprehensive economic assess-
ment of investment in key United States
technologies, including emerging tech-
nologies, by companies or organizations
linked to China, including the implications
of these investments for the national secu-
rity of the United States.
(b) FORM OF ASSESSMENT.—The assessment
submitted under subsection (a) shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex.
SEC. 403. ANALYSIS OF AND PERIODIC BRIEFINGS
ON MAJOR INITIATIVES OF INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY IN ARTIFI-
CIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE
LEARNING.
(a) ANALYSIS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall,
in coordination with the heads of such ele-
ments of the intelligence community as the
Director considers appropriate—
(A) complete a comprehensive analysis of
the major initiatives of the intelligence com-
munity in artificial intelligence and ma-
chine learning; and
(B) submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the findings
of the Director with respect to the analysis
conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A).
(2) ELEMENTS.—The analysis conducted
under paragraph (1)(A) shall include analyses
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00149 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3780 June 18, 2019
of how the initiatives described in such para-
graph—
(A) correspond with the strategy of the in-
telligence community entitled ‘‘Augmenting
Intelligence Using Machines’’;
(B) complement each other and avoid un-
necessary duplication;
(C) are coordinated with the efforts of the
Defense Department on artificial intel-
ligence, including efforts at the Joint Artifi-
cial Intelligence Center (JAIC) and Project
Maven; and
(D) leverage advances in artificial intel-
ligence and machine learning in the private
sector.
(b) PERIODIC BRIEFINGS.—Not later than 30
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, not less frequently than twice each year
thereafter until the date that is 2 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
not less frequently than once each year
thereafter until the date that is 7 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director and the Chief Information Officer of
the Department of Defense shall jointly pro-
vide to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees and congressional defense commit-
tees (as defined in section 101 of title 10,
United States Code) briefings with updates
on activities relating to, and the progress of,
their respective artificial intelligence and
machine learning initiatives, particularly
the Augmenting Intelligence Using Machines
initiative and the Joint Artificial Intel-
ligence Center.
SEC. 404. ENCOURAGING COOPERATIVE ACTIONS
TO DETECT AND COUNTER FOREIGN
INFLUENCE OPERATIONS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The Russian Federation, through mili-
tary intelligence units, also known as the
‘‘GRU’’, and Kremlin-linked troll organiza-
tions often referred to as the ‘‘Internet Re-
search Agency’’, deploy information warfare
operations against the United States, its al-
lies and partners, with the goal of advancing
the strategic interests of the Russian Fed-
eration.
(2) One line of effort deployed as part of
these information warfare operations is the
weaponization of social media platforms
with the goals of intensifying societal ten-
sions, undermining trust in governmental in-
stitutions within the United States, its allies
and partners in the West, and generally sow-
ing division, fear, and confusion.
(3) These information warfare operations
are a threat to the national security of the
United States and that of the allies and part-
ners of the United States. As Director of Na-
tional Intelligence Dan Coats stated, ‘‘These
actions are persistent, they are pervasive
and they are meant to undermine America’s
democracy.’’.
(4) These information warfare operations
continue to evolve and increase in sophis-
tication.
(5) Other foreign adversaries and hostile
non-state actors will increasingly adopt
similar tactics of deploying information war-
fare operations against the West.
(6) Technological advances, including arti-
ficial intelligence, will only make it more
difficult in the future to detect fraudulent
accounts, deceptive material posted on so-
cial media, and malign behavior on social
media platforms.
(7) Because these information warfare op-
erations are deployed within and across pri-
vate social media platforms, the companies
that own these platforms have a responsi-
bility to detect and remove foreign adver-
sary networks operating clandestinely on
their platforms.
(8) The social media companies are inher-
ently technologically sophisticated and
adept at rapidly analyzing large amounts of
data and developing software-based solutions
to diverse and ever-changing challenges on
their platforms, which makes them well-
equipped to address the threat occurring on
their platforms.
(9) Independent analyses confirmed Krem-
lin-linked threat networks, based on data
provided by several social media companies
to the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate, thereby demonstrating that it is
possible to discern both broad patterns of
cross-platform information warfare oper-
ations and specific fraudulent behavior on
social media platforms.
(10) General Paul Nakasone, Director of
the National Security Agency, emphasized
the importance of these independent anal-
yses to the planning and conduct of military
cyber operations to frustrate Kremlin-linked
information warfare operations against the
2018 mid-term elections. General Nakasone
stated that the reports ‘‘were very, very
helpful in terms of being able to understand
exactly what our adversary was trying to do
to build dissent within our nation.’’.
(11) Institutionalizing ongoing robust,
independent, and vigorous analysis of data
related to foreign threat networks within
and across social media platforms will help
counter ongoing information warfare oper-
ations against the United States, its allies,
and its partners.
(12) Archiving and disclosing to the public
the results of these analyses by the social
media companies and trusted third-party ex-
perts in a transparent manner will serve to
demonstrate that the social media compa-
nies are detecting and removing foreign ma-
lign activities from their platforms while
protecting the privacy of the people of the
United States and will build public under-
standing of the scale and scope of these for-
eign threats to our democracy, since expo-
sure is one of the most effective means to
build resilience.
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense
of the Senate that—
(1) the social media companies should co-
operate among themselves and with inde-
pendent organizations and researchers on a
sustained and regular basis to share and ana-
lyze data and indicators relevant to foreign
information warfare operations within and
across their platforms in order to detect and
counter foreign information warfare oper-
ations that threaten the national security of
the United States and its allies and partners;
(2) these analytic efforts should be orga-
nized in such a fashion as to meet the high-
est standards of ethics, confidentiality, and
privacy protection of the people of the
United States;
(3) these analytic efforts should be under-
taken as soon as possible to facilitate coun-
tering ongoing Kremlin, Kremlin-linked, and
other foreign information warfare operations
and to aid in preparations for the United
States presidential and congressional elec-
tions in 2020 and beyond;
(4) the structure and operations of social
media companies make them well positioned
to address foreign adversary threat networks
within and across their platforms, and these
efforts could be conducted without direct
Government involvement, direction, or regu-
lation; and
(5) if the social media industry fails to
take sufficient action to address foreign ad-
versary threat networks operating within or
across their platforms, Congress would have
to consider additional safeguards for ensur-
ing that this threat is effectively mitigated.
(c) AUTHORITY TO FACILITATE ESTABLISH-
MENT OF SOCIAL MEDIA DATA ANALYSIS CEN-
TER.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—The Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of Defense, may facilitate, by grant or
contract or under an existing authority of
the Director, the establishment of a Social
Media Data Analysis Center with the func-
tions described in paragraph (2) at an inde-
pendent, nonprofit organization.
(2) FUNCTIONS.—The functions described in
this paragraph are the following:
(A) Acting as a convening and sponsoring
authority for cooperative social media data
analysis of foreign threat networks involving
social media companies and third-party ex-
perts, nongovernmental organizations, data
journalists, federally funded research and de-
velopment centers, and academic research-
ers.
(B) Facilitating analysis within and across
the individual social media platforms for the
purpose of detecting, exposing, and coun-
tering clandestine foreign influence oper-
ations and related unlawful activities that
fund or subsidize such operations.
(C) Developing processes to share informa-
tion from government entities on foreign in-
fluence operations with the individual social
media companies to inform threat analysis,
and working with the Office of the Director
of National Intelligence as appropriate.
(D) Determining and making public cri-
teria for identifying which companies, orga-
nizations, or researchers qualify for inclu-
sion in the activities of the Center, and in-
viting entities that fit the criteria to join.
(E) Determining jointly with the social
media companies what data and metadata
related to indicators of foreign adversary
threat networks from their platforms and
business operations will be made available
for access and analysis.
(F) Developing and making public the cri-
teria and standards that must be met for
companies, other organizations, and indi-
vidual researchers to access and analyze data
relating to foreign adversary threat net-
works within and across social media plat-
forms and publish or otherwise use the re-
sults.
(G) Developing and making public the eth-
ical standards for investigation of foreign
threat networks and use of analytic results
and for protection of the privacy of the cus-
tomers and users of the social media plat-
forms and of the proprietary information of
the social media companies.
(H) Developing technical, contractual, and
procedural controls to prevent misuse of
data, including any necessary auditing pro-
cedures, compliance checks, and review
mechanisms.
(I) Developing and making public criteria
and conditions under which the Center shall
share information with the appropriate Gov-
ernment agencies regarding threats to na-
tional security from, or violations of the law
involving, foreign activities on social media
platforms.
(J) Developing a searchable, public archive
aggregating information related to foreign
influence and disinformation operations to
build a collective understanding of the
threats and facilitate future examination
consistent with privacy protections.
(d) REPORTING AND NOTIFICATIONS.—If the
Director of National Intelligence chooses to
use funds under subsection (c)(1) to facilitate
the establishment of the Center, the Director
of the Center shall—
(1) not later than March 1, 2020, submit to
Congress a report on—
(A) the estimated funding needs of the Cen-
ter for fiscal year 2021 and for subsequent
years;
(B) such statutory protections from liabil-
ity as the Director considers necessary for
the Center, participating social media com-
panies, and participating third-party analyt-
ical participants;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00150 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3781
June 18, 2019
(C) such statutory penalties as the Direc-
tor considers necessary to ensure against
misuse of data by researchers; and
(D) such changes to the Center’s mission to
fully capture broader unlawful activities
that intersect with, complement, or support
information warfare tactics; and
(2) not less frequently than once each year,
submit to the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the ap-
propriate congressional committees a re-
port—
(A) that assesses—
(i) degree of cooperation and commitment
from the social media companies to the mis-
sion of the Center; and
(ii) effectiveness of the Center in detecting
and removing clandestine foreign informa-
tion warfare operations from social media
platforms; and
(B) includes such recommendations for leg-
islative or administrative action as the Cen-
ter considers appropriate to carry out the
functions of the Center.
(e) PERIODIC REPORTING TO THE PUBLIC.—
The Director of the Center shall—
(1) once each quarter, make available to
the public a report on key trends in foreign
influence and disinformation operations, in-
cluding any threats to campaigns and elec-
tions, to inform the public of the United
States; and
(2) as the Director considers necessary,
provide more timely assessments relating to
ongoing disinformation campaigns.
(f) FUNDING.—Of the amounts appropriated
or otherwise made available to the National
Intelligence Program (as defined in section 3
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3003)) in fiscal year 2020 and 2021, the
Director of National Intelligence may use up
to $30,000,000 to carry out this section.
(g) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE CONGRES-
SIONAL COMMITTEES.—In this section, the
term ‘‘appropriate congressional commit-
tees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(4) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate;
(5) the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate;
(6) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(7) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(8) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives;
(9) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives; and
(10) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 405. OVERSIGHT OF FOREIGN INFLUENCE IN
ACADEMIA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDU-
CATION.—The term ‘‘covered institution of
higher education’’ means an institution de-
scribed in section 102 of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002) that re-
ceives Federal funds in any amount and for
any purpose.
(2) SENSITIVE RESEARCH SUBJECT.—The
term ‘‘sensitive research subject’’ means a
subject of research that is carried out at a
covered institution of higher education that
receives funds that were appropriated for—
(A) the National Intelligence Program; or
(B) any Federal agency the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence deems appropriate.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once each
year thereafter, the Director of National In-
telligence, in consultation with such ele-
ments of the intelligence community as the
Director considers appropriate and con-
sistent with the privacy protections afforded
to United States persons, shall submit to
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on risks to sensitive research subjects
posed by foreign entities in order to provide
Congress and covered institutions of higher
education with more complete information
on these risks and to help ensure academic
freedom.
(c) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A list of sensitive research subjects that
could affect national security.
(2) A list of foreign entities, including gov-
ernments, corporations, nonprofit organiza-
tions and for-profit organizations, and any
subsidiary or affiliate of such an entity, that
the Director determines pose a counterintel-
ligence, espionage (including economic espi-
onage), or other national security threats
with respect to sensitive research subjects.
(3) A list of any known or suspected at-
tempts by foreign entities to exert pressure
on covered institutions of higher education,
including attempts to limit freedom of
speech, propagate misinformation or
disinformation, or to influence professors,
researchers, or students.
(4) Recommendations for collaboration be-
tween covered institutions of higher edu-
cation and the intelligence community to
mitigate threats to sensitive research sub-
jects associated with foreign influence in
academia, including any necessary legisla-
tive or administrative action.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATIONS RE-
QUIRED.—Not later than 30 days after the
date on which the Director identifies a
change to either list described in paragraph
(1) or (2) of subsection (c), the Director shall
notify the congressional intelligence com-
mittees of the change.
SEC. 406. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE REPORT ON FIFTH-GEN-
ERATION WIRELESS NETWORK
TECHNOLOGY.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on—
(1) the threat to United States national se-
curity posed by the global and regional adop-
tion of fifth-generation (5G) wireless net-
work technology built by foreign companies;
and
(2) the effect of possible efforts to mitigate
the threat.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include:
(1) The timeline and scale of global and re-
gional adoption of foreign fifth-generation
wireless network technology.
(2) The implications of such global and re-
gional adoption on the cyber and espionage
threat to the United States and United
States interests as well as to United States
cyber and collection capabilities.
(3) The effect of possible mitigation efforts,
including:
(A) United States Government policy pro-
moting the use of strong, end-to-end
encryption for data transmitted over fifth-
generation wireless networks.
(B) United States Government policy pro-
moting or funding free, open-source imple-
mentation of fifth-generation wireless net-
work technology.
(C) United States Government subsidies or
incentives that could be used to promote the
adoption of secure fifth-generation wireless
network technology developed by companies
of the United States or companies of allies of
the United States.
(D) United States Government strategy to
reduce foreign influence and political pres-
sure in international standard-setting bod-
ies.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form to the greatest extent practicable,
but may include a classified appendix if nec-
essary.
SEC. 407. ANNUAL REPORT BY COMPTROLLER
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES
ON CYBERSECURITY AND SURVEIL-
LANCE THREATS TO CONGRESS.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on cybersecurity and surveillance
threats to Congress.
(b) STATISTICS.—Each report submitted
under subsection (a) shall include statistics
on cyber attacks and other incidents of espi-
onage or surveillance targeted against Sen-
ators or the immediate families or staff of
the Senators, in which the nonpublic com-
munications and other private information
of such targeted individuals were lost, sto-
len, or otherwise subject to unauthorized ac-
cess by criminals or a foreign government.
(c) CONSULTATION.—In preparing a report
to be submitted under subsection (a), the
Comptroller General shall consult with the
Director of National Intelligence, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and the Ser-
geant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.
SEC. 408. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE ASSESSMENTS OF FOR-
EIGN INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS.
(a) ASSESSMENTS REQUIRED.—Not later
than 45 days after the conclusion of a United
States election, the Director of National In-
telligence, in consultation with the heads of
such other executive departments and agen-
cies as the Director considers appropriate,
shall—
(1) conduct an assessment of any informa-
tion indicating that a foreign government, or
any person acting as an agent of or on behalf
of a foreign government, has acted with the
intent or purpose of interfering in that elec-
tion; and
(2) transmit the findings of the Director
with respect to the assessment conducted
under paragraph (1), along with such sup-
porting information as the Director con-
siders appropriate, to the following:
(A) The President.
(B) The Secretary of State.
(C) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(D) The Secretary of Defense.
(E) The Attorney General.
(F) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
(G) Congress.
(b) ELEMENTS.—An assessment conducted
under subsection (a)(1), with respect to an
act described in such subsection, shall iden-
tify, to the maximum extent ascertainable,
the following:
(1) The nature of any foreign interference
and any methods employed to execute the
act.
(2) The persons involved.
(3) The foreign government or governments
that authorized, directed, sponsored, or sup-
ported the act.
(c) PUBLICATION.—In a case in which the
Director conducts an assessment under sub-
section (a)(1) with respect to an election, the
Director shall, as soon as practicable after
the date of the conclusion of such election
and not later than 60 days after the date of
such conclusion, make available to the pub-
lic, to the greatest extent possible consistent
with the protection of sources and methods,
the findings transmitted under subsection
(a)(2).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00151 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3782 June 18, 2019
SEC. 409. STUDY ON FEASIBILITY AND ADVIS-
ABILITY OF ESTABLISHING
GEOSPATIAL-INTELLIGENCE MU-
SEUM AND LEARNING CENTER.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency shall complete a study
on the feasibility and advisability of estab-
lishing a Geospatial-Intelligence Museum
and learning center.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) Identifying the costs, opportunities, and
challenges of establishing the museum and
learning center as described in such sub-
section.
(2) Developing recommendations con-
cerning such establishment.
(3) Identifying and reviewing lessons
learned from the establishment of the Cyber
Center for Education and Innovation-Home
of the National Cryptologic Museum under
section 7781(a) of title 10, United States
Code.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees and the congres-
sional defense committees (as defined in sec-
tion 101 of title 10, United States Code) a re-
port on the findings of the Director with re-
spect to the study completed under sub-
section (a).
SEC. 410. REPORT ON DEATH OF JAMAL
KHASHOGGI.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to Congress a report on the death of
Jamal Khashoggi, consistent with protecting
sources and methods. Such report shall in-
clude identification of those who carried out,
participated in, ordered, or were otherwise
complicit in or responsible for the death of
Jamal Khashoggi.
(b) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form.
DIVISION—INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZA-
TIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND 2019
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This division may be
cited as the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Mat-
thew Young Pollard Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this division is as follows:
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE AUTHOR-
IZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND
2019
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authoriza-
tions.
Sec. 103. Intelligence Community Manage-
ment Account.
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DIS-
ABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 202. Computation of annuities for em-
ployees of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
Sec. 301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Sec. 302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 303. Modification of special pay author-
ity for science, technology, en-
gineering, or mathematics posi-
tions and addition of special
pay authority for cyber posi-
tions.
Sec. 304. Modification of appointment of
Chief Information Officer of the
Intelligence Community.
Sec. 305. Director of National Intelligence
review of placement of posi-
tions within the intelligence
community on the Executive
Schedule.
Sec. 306. Supply Chain and Counterintel-
ligence Risk Management Task
Force.
Sec. 307. Consideration of adversarial tele-
communications and cybersecu-
rity infrastructure when shar-
ing intelligence with foreign
governments and entities.
Sec. 308. Cyber protection support for the
personnel of the intelligence
community in positions highly
vulnerable to cyber attack.
Sec. 309. Modification of authority relating
to management of supply-chain
risk.
Sec. 310. Limitations on determinations re-
garding certain security classi-
fications.
Sec. 311. Joint Intelligence Community
Council.
Sec. 312. Intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment.
Sec. 313. Report on development of secure
mobile voice solution for intel-
ligence community.
Sec. 314. Policy on minimum insider threat
standards.
Sec. 315. Submission of intelligence commu-
nity policies.
Sec. 316. Expansion of intelligence commu-
nity recruitment efforts.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Sec. 401. Authority for protection of current
and former employees of the Of-
fice of the Director of National
Intelligence.
Sec. 402. Designation of the program man-
ager-information sharing envi-
ronment.
Sec. 403. Technical modification to the exec-
utive schedule.
Sec. 404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intel-
ligence Community.
Sec. 405. Chief Information Officer of the In-
telligence Community.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
Sec. 411. Central Intelligence Agency sub-
sistence for personnel assigned
to austere locations.
Sec. 412. Expansion of security protective
service jurisdiction of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 413. Repeal of foreign language pro-
ficiency requirement for cer-
tain senior level positions in
the Central Intelligence Agen-
cy.
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and Coun-
terintelligence of Department of Energy
Sec. 421. Consolidation of Department of En-
ergy Offices of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence.
Sec. 422. Repeal of Department of Energy In-
telligence Executive Com-
mittee and budget reporting re-
quirement.
Subtitle D—Other Elements
Sec. 431. Plan for designation of counter-
intelligence component of De-
fense Security Service as an
element of intelligence commu-
nity.
Sec. 432. Notice not required for private en-
tities.
Sec. 433. Framework for roles, missions, and
functions of Defense Intel-
ligence Agency.
Sec. 434. Establishment of advisory board
for National Reconnaissance
Office.
Sec. 435. Collocation of certain Department
of Homeland Security personnel
at field locations.
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
Sec. 501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign
governments against United
States election infrastructure.
Sec. 502. Review of intelligence commu-
nity’s posture to collect against
and analyze Russian efforts to
influence the Presidential elec-
tion.
Sec. 503. Assessment of foreign intelligence
threats to Federal elections.
Sec. 504. Strategy for countering Russian
cyber threats to United States
elections.
Sec. 505. Assessment of significant Russian
influence campaigns directed at
foreign elections and referenda.
Sec. 506. Foreign counterintelligence and
cybersecurity threats to Fed-
eral election campaigns.
Sec. 507. Information sharing with State
election officials.
Sec. 508. Notification of significant foreign
cyber intrusions and active
measures campaigns directed at
elections for Federal offices.
Sec. 509. Designation of counterintelligence
officer to lead election security
matters.
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Reports and plans relating to secu-
rity clearances and background
investigations.
Sec. 603. Improving the process for security
clearances.
Sec. 604. Goals for promptness of determina-
tions regarding security clear-
ances.
Sec. 605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 606. Report on unified, simplified, Gov-
ernmentwide standards for po-
sitions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 607. Report on clearance in person con-
cept.
Sec. 608. Budget request documentation on
funding for background inves-
tigations.
Sec. 609. Reports on reciprocity for security
clearances inside of depart-
ments and agencies.
Sec. 610. Intelligence community reports on
security clearances.
Sec. 611. Periodic report on positions in the
intelligence community that
can be conducted without ac-
cess to classified information,
networks, or facilities.
Sec. 612. Information sharing program for
positions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 613. Report on protections for confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related
communications.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
Sec. 701. Limitation relating to establish-
ment or support of cybersecu-
rity unit with the Russian Fed-
eration.
Sec. 702. Report on returning Russian com-
pounds.
Sec. 703. Assessment of threat finance relat-
ing to Russia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00152 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3783
June 18, 2019
Sec. 704. Notification of an active measures
campaign.
Sec. 705. Notification of travel by accredited
diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federa-
tion in the United States.
Sec. 706. Report on outreach strategy ad-
dressing threats from United
States adversaries to the
United States technology sec-
tor.
Sec. 707. Report on Iranian support of proxy
forces in Syria and Lebanon.
Sec. 708. Annual report on Iranian expendi-
tures supporting foreign mili-
tary and terrorist activities.
Sec. 709. Expansion of scope of committee to
counter active measures and re-
port on establishment of For-
eign Malign Influence Center.
Subtitle B—Reports
Sec. 711. Technical correction to Inspector
General study.
Sec. 712. Reports on authorities of the Chief
Intelligence Officer of the De-
partment of Homeland Secu-
rity.
Sec. 713. Report on cyber exchange program.
Sec. 714. Review of intelligence community
whistleblower matters.
Sec. 715. Report on role of Director of Na-
tional Intelligence with respect
to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 716. Report on surveillance by foreign
governments against United
States telecommunications net-
works.
Sec. 717. Biennial report on foreign invest-
ment risks.
Sec. 718. Modification of certain reporting
requirement on travel of for-
eign diplomats.
Sec. 719. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified information.
Sec. 720. Congressional notification of des-
ignation of covered intelligence
officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 721. Reports on intelligence community
participation in vulnerabilities
equities process of Federal Gov-
ernment.
Sec. 722. Inspectors General reports on clas-
sification.
Sec. 723. Reports on global water insecurity
and national security implica-
tions and briefing on emerging
infectious disease and
pandemics.
Sec. 724. Annual report on memoranda of
understanding between ele-
ments of intelligence commu-
nity and other entities of the
United States Government re-
garding significant operational
activities or policy.
Sec. 725. Study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline
and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 726. Modification of requirement for an-
nual report on hiring and reten-
tion of minority employees.
Sec. 727. Reports on intelligence community
loan repayment and related
programs.
Sec. 728. Repeal of certain reporting require-
ments.
Sec. 729. Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community report on
senior executives of the Office
of the Director of National In-
telligence.
Sec. 730. Briefing on Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation offering permanent
residence to sources and co-
operators.
Sec. 731. Intelligence assessment of North
Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 732. Report on possible exploitation of
virtual currencies by terrorist
actors.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 741. Public Interest Declassification
Board.
Sec. 742. Securing energy infrastructure.
Sec. 743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 744. Modification of authorities relating
to the National Intelligence
University.
Sec. 745. Technical and clerical amendments
to the National Security Act of
1947.
Sec. 746. Technical amendments related to
the Department of Energy.
Sec. 747. Sense of Congress on notification of
certain disclosures of classified
information.
Sec. 748. Sense of Congress on consideration
of espionage activities when
considering whether or not to
provide visas to foreign individ-
uals to be accredited to a
United Nations mission in the
United States.
Sec. 749. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in such section.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year
2019 for the conduct of the intelligence and
intelligence-related activities of the fol-
lowing elements of the United States Gov-
ernment:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5) The National Security Agency.
(6) The Department of the Army, the De-
partment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force.
(7) The Coast Guard.
(8) The Department of State.
(9) The Department of the Treasury.
(10) The Department of Energy.
(11) The Department of Justice.
(12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13) The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
(14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(16) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(b) FISCAL YEAR 2018.—Funds that were ap-
propriated for fiscal year 2018 for the conduct
of the intelligence and intelligence-related
activities of the elements of the United
States set forth in subsection (a) are hereby
authorized.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.
(a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS.—The
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
section 101 for the conduct of the intel-
ligence activities of the elements listed in
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are
those specified in the classified Schedule of
Authorizations prepared to accompany this
division.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE
OF AUTHORIZATIONS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY.—The classified Schedule
of Authorizations referred to in subsection
(a) shall be made available to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives, and to the President.
(2) DISTRIBUTION BY THE PRESIDENT.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (3), the President shall pro-
vide for suitable distribution of the classified
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in
subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of
such Schedule, within the executive branch.
(3) LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE.—The President
shall not publicly disclose the classified
Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of
such Schedule except—
(A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Im-
plementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
(B) to the extent necessary to implement
the budget; or
(C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGE-
MENT ACCOUNT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account of the Director of National Intel-
ligence for fiscal year 2019 the sum of
$522,424,000.
(b) CLASSIFIED AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
Community Management Account by sub-
section (a), there are authorized to be appro-
priated for the Intelligence Community Man-
agement Account for fiscal year 2019 such ad-
ditional amounts as are specified in the clas-
sified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
in section 102(a).
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-
TEM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal
year 2019.
SEC. 202. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR EM-
PLOYEES OF THE CENTRAL INTEL-
LIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 221 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2031) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(3)(B), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘, as deter-
mined by using the annual rate of basic pay
that would be payable for full-time service in
that position.’’;
(B) in subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), by striking
‘‘12-month’’ and inserting ‘‘2-year’’;
(C) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’;
(D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ each place such term appears and in-
serting ‘‘two years’’;
(E) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), (j),
(k), and (l) as subsections (i), (j), (k), (l), and
(m), respectively; and
(F) by inserting after subsection (g) the
following:
‘‘(h) CONDITIONAL ELECTION OF INSURABLE
INTEREST SURVIVOR ANNUITY BY PARTICI-
PANTS MARRIED AT THE TIME OF RETIRE-
MENT.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORITY TO MAKE DESIGNATION.—
Subject to the rights of former spouses under
subsection (b) and section 222, at the time of
retirement a married participant found by
the Director to be in good health may elect
to receive an annuity reduced in accordance
with subsection (f)(1)(B) and designate in
writing an individual having an insurable in-
terest in the participant to receive an annu-
ity under the system after the participant’s
death, except that any such election to pro-
vide an insurable interest survivor annuity
to the participant’s spouse shall only be ef-
fective if the participant’s spouse waives the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00153 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3784 June 18, 2019
spousal right to a survivor annuity under
this Act. The amount of the annuity shall be
equal to 55 percent of the participant’s re-
duced annuity.
‘‘(2) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT’S ANNUITY.—
The annuity payable to the participant mak-
ing such election shall be reduced by 10 per-
cent of an annuity computed under sub-
section (a) and by an additional 5 percent for
each full 5 years the designated individual is
younger than the participant. The total re-
duction under this subparagraph may not ex-
ceed 40 percent.
‘‘(3) COMMENCEMENT OF SURVIVOR ANNU-
ITY.—The annuity payable to the designated
individual shall begin on the day after the
retired participant dies and terminate on the
last day of the month before the designated
individual dies.
‘‘(4) RECOMPUTATION OF PARTICIPANT’S AN-
NUITY ON DEATH OF DESIGNATED INDIVIDUAL.—
An annuity that is reduced under this sub-
section shall, effective the first day of the
month following the death of the designated
individual, be recomputed and paid as if the
annuity had not been so reduced.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIRE-
MENT ACT.—The Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) is
amended—
(i) in section 232(b)(1) (50 U.S.C. 2052(b)(1)),
by striking ‘‘221(h),’’ and inserting ‘‘221(i),’’;
and
(ii) in section 252(h)(4) (50 U.S.C. 2082(h)(4)),
by striking ‘‘221(k)’’ and inserting ‘‘221(l)’’.
(B) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF
1949.—Subsection (a) of section 14 of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50
U.S.C. 3514(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘221(h)(2), 221(i), 221(l),’’ and inserting
‘‘221(i)(2), 221(j), 221(m),’’.
(b) ANNUITIES FOR FORMER SPOUSES.—Sub-
paragraph (B) of section 222(b)(5) of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2032(b)(5)(B)) is amended by striking
‘‘one year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’.
(c) PRIOR SERVICE CREDIT.—Subparagraph
(A) of section 252(b)(3) of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C.
2082(b)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘Octo-
ber 1, 1990’’ both places that term appears
and inserting ‘‘March 31, 1991’’.
(d) REEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.—Sec-
tion 273 of the Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2113) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) PART-TIME REEMPLOYED ANNU-
ITANTS.—The Director shall have the author-
ity to reemploy an annuitant on a part-time
basis in accordance with section 8344(l) of
title 5, United States Code.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICATION.—The
amendments made by subsection (a)(1)(A)
and subsection (c) shall take effect as if en-
acted on October 28, 2009, and shall apply to
computations or participants, respectively,
as of such date.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
SEC. 301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTEL-
LIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
The authorization of appropriations by
this division shall not be deemed to con-
stitute authority for the conduct of any in-
telligence activity which is not otherwise
authorized by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States.
SEC. 302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSA-
TION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED
BY LAW.
Appropriations authorized by this division
for salary, pay, retirement, and other bene-
fits for Federal employees may be increased
by such additional or supplemental amounts
as may be necessary for increases in such
compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 303. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL PAY AU-
THORITY FOR SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHE-
MATICS POSITIONS AND ADDITION
OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR
CYBER POSITIONS.
Section 113B of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3049a) is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as
follows:
‘‘(a) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR POSITIONS
REQUIRING EXPERTISE IN SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHEMATICS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding part III
of title 5, United States Code, the head of
each element of the intelligence community
may, for 1 or more categories of positions in
such element that require expertise in
science, technology, engineering, or mathe-
matics—
‘‘(A) establish higher minimum rates of
pay; and
‘‘(B) make corresponding increases in all
rates of pay of the pay range for each grade
or level, subject to subsection (b) or (c), as
applicable.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT.—The special rate supple-
ments resulting from the establishment of
higher rates under paragraph (1) shall be
basic pay for the same or similar purposes as
those specified in section 5305(j) of title 5,
United States Code.’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b)
through (f) as subsections (c) through (g), re-
spectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR CYBER PO-
SITIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (c), the Director of the National Se-
curity Agency may establish a special rate of
pay—
‘‘(A) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for level II of the Executive Sched-
ule under section 5313 of title 5, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence,
in consultation with the Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Readiness, that
the rate of pay is for positions that perform
functions that execute the cyber mission of
the Agency; or
‘‘(B) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for the Vice President of the United
States under section 104 of title 3, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Secretary of Defense, by name, individuals
that have advanced skills and competencies
and that perform critical functions that exe-
cute the cyber mission of the Agency.
‘‘(2) PAY LIMITATION.—Employees receiving
a special rate under paragraph (1) shall be
subject to an aggregate pay limitation that
parallels the limitation established in sec-
tion 5307 of title 5, United States Code, ex-
cept that—
‘‘(A) any allowance, differential, bonus,
award, or other similar cash payment in ad-
dition to basic pay that is authorized under
title 10, United States Code, (or any other
applicable law in addition to title 5 of such
Code, excluding the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.)) shall also
be counted as part of aggregate compensa-
tion; and
‘‘(B) aggregate compensation may not ex-
ceed the rate established for the Vice Presi-
dent of the United States under section 104
of title 3, United States Code.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF RECIPI-
ENTS.—The number of individuals who re-
ceive basic pay established under paragraph
(1)(B) may not exceed 100 at any time.
‘‘(4) LIMITATION ON USE AS COMPARATIVE
REFERENCE.—Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, special rates of pay and the
limitation established under paragraph (1)(B)
may not be used as comparative references
for the purpose of fixing the rates of basic
pay or maximum pay limitations of qualified
positions under section 1599f of title 10,
United States Code, or section 226 of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
147).’’;
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘A minimum’’ and
inserting ‘‘Except as provided in subsection
(b), a minimum’’;
(5) in subsection (d), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or (b)’’ after ‘‘by
subsection (a)’’; and
(6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
paragraph (2)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2017’’ and inserting ‘‘Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ‘‘or
(b)’’ after ‘‘subsection (a)’’.
SEC. 304. MODIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
striking ‘‘President’’ and inserting ‘‘Direc-
tor’’.
SEC. 305. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE REVIEW OF PLACEMENT
OF POSITIONS WITHIN THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY ON THE EXEC-
UTIVE SCHEDULE.
(a) REVIEW.—The Director of National In-
telligence, in coordination with the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, shall
conduct a review of positions within the in-
telligence community regarding the place-
ment of such positions on the Executive
Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of
title 5, United States Code. In carrying out
such review, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management, shall
determine—
(1) the standards under which such review
will be conducted;
(2) which positions should or should not be
on the Executive Schedule; and
(3) for those positions that should be on the
Executive Schedule, the level of the Execu-
tive Schedule at which such positions should
be placed.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the date on which the review under sub-
section (a) is completed, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform of the House
of Representatives an unredacted report de-
scribing the standards by which the review
was conducted and the outcome of the re-
view.
SEC. 306. SUPPLY CHAIN AND COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE RISK MANAGEMENT TASK
FORCE.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Reform of the
House of Representatives.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00154 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3785
June 18, 2019
(b) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall estab-
lish a Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force to standardize
information sharing between the intelligence
community and the acquisition community
of the United States Government with re-
spect to the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks.
(c) MEMBERS.—The Supply Chain and
Counterintelligence Risk Management Task
Force established under subsection (b) shall
be composed of—
(1) a representative of the Defense Security
Service of the Department of Defense;
(2) a representative of the General Services
Administration;
(3) a representative of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget;
(4) a representative of the Department of
Homeland Security;
(5) a representative of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation;
(6) the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center; and
(7) any other members the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence determines appropriate.
(d) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—Each member
of the Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force established
under subsection (b) shall have a security
clearance at the top secret level and be able
to access sensitive compartmented informa-
tion.
(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Supply Chain
and Counterintelligence Risk Management
Task Force established under subsection (b)
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an annual report that de-
scribes the activities of the Task Force dur-
ing the previous year, including identifica-
tion of the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks shared with the acquisition
community of the United States Government
by the intelligence community.
SEC. 307. CONSIDERATION OF ADVERSARIAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND CYBER-
SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE WHEN
SHARING INTELLIGENCE WITH FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AND ENTITIES.
Whenever the head of an element of the in-
telligence community enters into an intel-
ligence sharing agreement with a foreign
government or any other foreign entity, the
head of the element shall consider the perva-
siveness of telecommunications and cyberse-
curity infrastructure, equipment, and serv-
ices provided by adversaries of the United
States, particularly China and Russia, or en-
tities of such adversaries in the country or
region of the foreign government or other
foreign entity entering into the agreement.
SEC. 308. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR THE
PERSONNEL OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY IN POSITIONS HIGHLY
VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PERSONAL ACCOUNTS.—The term ‘‘per-
sonal accounts’’ means accounts for online
and telecommunications services, including
telephone, residential Internet access, email,
text and multimedia messaging, cloud com-
puting, social media, health care, and finan-
cial services, used by personnel of the intel-
ligence community outside of the scope of
their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community.
(2) PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY DEVICES.—The
term ‘‘personal technology devices’’ means
technology devices used by personnel of the
intelligence community outside of the scope
of their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community, including networks to
which such devices connect.
(b) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE CYBER PROTEC-
TION SUPPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to a determina-
tion by the Director of National Intelligence,
the Director may provide cyber protection
support for the personal technology devices
and personal accounts of the personnel de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(2) AT-RISK PERSONNEL.—The personnel de-
scribed in this paragraph are personnel of
the intelligence community—
(A) who the Director determines to be
highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and hos-
tile information collection activities because
of the positions occupied by such personnel
in the intelligence community; and
(B) whose personal technology devices or
personal accounts are highly vulnerable to
cyber attacks and hostile information collec-
tion activities.
(c) NATURE OF CYBER PROTECTION SUP-
PORT.—Subject to the availability of re-
sources, the cyber protection support pro-
vided to personnel under subsection (b) may
include training, advice, assistance, and
other services relating to cyber attacks and
hostile information collection activities.
(d) LIMITATION ON SUPPORT.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed—
(1) to encourage personnel of the intel-
ligence community to use personal tech-
nology devices for official business; or
(2) to authorize cyber protection support
for senior intelligence community personnel
using personal devices, networks, and per-
sonal accounts in an official capacity.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the pro-
vision of cyber protection support under sub-
section (b). The report shall include—
(1) a description of the methodology used
to make the determination under subsection
(b)(2); and
(2) guidance for the use of cyber protection
support and tracking of support requests for
personnel receiving cyber protection support
under subsection (b).
SEC. 309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY RELAT-
ING TO MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLY-
CHAIN RISK.
(a) MODIFICATION OF EFFECTIVE DATE.—
Subsection (f) of section 309 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2012 (Public Law 112–87; 50 U.S.C. 3329 note) is
amended by striking ‘‘the date that is 180
days after’’.
(b) REPEAL OF SUNSET.—Such section is
amended by striking subsection (g).
(c) REPORTS.—Such section, as amended by
subsection (b), is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (f), as
amended by subsection (a), as subsection (g);
and
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of the Damon Paul
Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years
2018 and 2019 and not less frequently than
once each calendar year thereafter, the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall, in con-
sultation with each head of a covered agen-
cy, submit to the congressional intelligence
committees (as defined in section 3 of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003)), a report that details the determina-
tions and notifications made under sub-
section (c) during the most recently com-
pleted calendar year.
‘‘(2) INITIAL REPORT.—The first report sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall detail all
the determinations and notifications made
under subsection (c) before the date of the
submittal of the report.’’.
SEC. 310. LIMITATIONS ON DETERMINATIONS RE-
GARDING CERTAIN SECURITY CLAS-
SIFICATIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—An officer of an element
of the intelligence community who has been
nominated by the President for a position
that requires the advice and consent of the
Senate may not make a classification deci-
sion with respect to information related to
such officer’s nomination.
(b) CLASSIFICATION DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), in a case in which an officer
described in subsection (a) has been nomi-
nated as described in such subsection and
classification authority rests with the officer
or another officer who reports directly to
such officer, a classification decision with
respect to information relating to the officer
shall be made by the Director of National In-
telligence.
(2) NOMINATIONS OF DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE.—In a case described in para-
graph (1) in which the officer nominated is
the Director of National Intelligence, the
classification decision shall be made by the
Principal Deputy Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) REPORTS.—Whenever the Director or
the Principal Deputy Director makes a deci-
sion under subsection (b), the Director or the
Principal Deputy Director, as the case may
be, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report detailing the
reasons for the decision.
SEC. 311. JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
COUNCIL.
(a) MEETINGS.—Section 101A(d) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3022(d))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘regular’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘as the Director considers
appropriate’’ after ‘‘Council’’.
(b) REPORT ON FUNCTION AND UTILITY OF
THE JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY COUN-
CIL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Executive Office of the
President and members of the Joint Intel-
ligence Community Council, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the function and utility of the
Joint Intelligence Community Council.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The number of physical or virtual
meetings held by the Council per year since
the Council’s inception.
(B) A description of the effect and accom-
plishments of the Council.
(C) An explanation of the unique role of
the Council relative to other entities, includ-
ing with respect to the National Security
Council and the Executive Committee of the
intelligence community.
(D) Recommendations for the future role
and operation of the Council.
(E) Such other matters relating to the
function and utility of the Council as the Di-
rector considers appropriate.
(3) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 312. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMA-
TION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CORE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘core service’’
means a capability that is available to mul-
tiple elements of the intelligence community
and required for consistent operation of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment.
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.—The term ‘‘intel-
ligence community information technology
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00155 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3786 June 18, 2019
environment’’ means all of the information
technology services across the intelligence
community, including the data sharing and
protection environment across multiple clas-
sification domains.
(b) ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(1) DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.—
The Director of National Intelligence shall
be responsible for coordinating the perform-
ance by elements of the intelligence commu-
nity of the intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment, including each
of the following:
(A) Ensuring compliance with all applica-
ble environment rules and regulations of
such environment.
(B) Ensuring measurable performance
goals exist for such environment.
(C) Documenting standards and practices
of such environment.
(D) Acting as an arbiter among elements of
the intelligence community related to any
disagreements arising out of the implemen-
tation of such environment.
(E) Delegating responsibilities to the ele-
ments of the intelligence community and
carrying out such other responsibilities as
are necessary for the effective implementa-
tion of such environment.
(2) CORE SERVICE PROVIDERS.—Providers of
core services shall be responsible for—
(A) providing core services, in coordination
with the Director of National Intelligence;
and
(B) providing the Director with informa-
tion requested and required to fulfill the re-
sponsibilities of the Director under para-
graph (1).
(3) USE OF CORE SERVICES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), each element of the intel-
ligence community shall use core services
when such services are available.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The Director of National
Intelligence may provide for a written excep-
tion to the requirement under subparagraph
(A) if the Director determines there is a com-
pelling financial or mission need for such ex-
ception.
(c) MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTABILITY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence shall designate and maintain
one or more accountable executives of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment to be responsible for—
(1) management, financial control, and in-
tegration of such environment;
(2) overseeing the performance of each core
service, including establishing measurable
service requirements and schedules;
(3) to the degree feasible, ensuring testing
of each core service of such environment, in-
cluding testing by the intended users, to
evaluate performance against measurable
service requirements and to ensure the capa-
bility meets user requirements; and
(4) coordinate transition or restructuring
efforts of such environment, including phase-
out of legacy systems.
(d) SECURITY PLAN.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall develop and maintain a security plan
for the intelligence community information
technology environment.
(e) LONG-TERM ROADMAP.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and during each of the second and
fourth fiscal quarters thereafter, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
long-term roadmap that shall include each of
the following:
(1) A description of the minimum required
and desired core service requirements, in-
cluding—
(A) key performance parameters; and
(B) an assessment of current, measured
performance.
(2) implementation milestones for the in-
telligence community information tech-
nology environment, including each of the
following:
(A) A schedule for expected deliveries of
core service capabilities during each of the
following phases:
(i) Concept refinement and technology ma-
turity demonstration.
(ii) Development, integration, and dem-
onstration.
(iii) Production, deployment, and
sustainment.
(iv) System retirement.
(B) Dependencies of such core service capa-
bilities.
(C) Plans for the transition or restruc-
turing necessary to incorporate core service
capabilities.
(D) A description of any legacy systems
and discontinued capabilities to be phased
out.
(3) Such other matters as the Director de-
termines appropriate.
(f) BUSINESS PLAN.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and during each of the second and fourth fis-
cal quarters thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a busi-
ness plan that includes each of the following:
(1) A systematic approach to identify core
service funding requests for the intelligence
community information technology environ-
ment within the proposed budget, including
multiyear plans to implement the long-term
roadmap required by subsection (e).
(2) A uniform approach by which each ele-
ment of the intelligence community shall
identify the cost of legacy information tech-
nology or alternative capabilities where
services of the intelligence community infor-
mation technology environment will also be
available.
(3) A uniform effort by which each element
of the intelligence community shall identify
transition and restructuring costs for new,
existing, and retiring services of the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, as well as services of such en-
vironment that have changed designations as
a core service.
(g) QUARTERLY PRESENTATIONS.—Beginning
not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the con-
gressional intelligence committees quarterly
updates regarding ongoing implementation
of the intelligence community information
technology environment as compared to the
requirements in the most recently submitted
security plan required by subsection (d),
long-term roadmap required by subsection
(e), and business plan required by subsection
(f).
(h) ADDITIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall provide
timely notification to the congressional in-
telligence committees regarding any policy
changes related to or affecting the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, new initiatives or strategies
related to or impacting such environment,
and changes or deficiencies in the execution
of the security plan required by subsection
(d), long-term roadmap required by sub-
section (e), and business plan required by
subsection (f)
(i) SUNSET.—The section shall have no ef-
fect on or after September 30, 2024.
SEC. 313. REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF SECURE
MOBILE VOICE SOLUTION FOR IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Director of the
National Security Agency, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
classified report on the feasibility, desir-
ability, cost, and required schedule associ-
ated with the implementation of a secure
mobile voice solution for the intelligence
community.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
(1) The benefits and disadvantages of a se-
cure mobile voice solution.
(2) Whether the intelligence community
could leverage commercially available tech-
nology for classified voice communications
that operates on commercial mobile net-
works in a secure manner and identifying
the accompanying security risks to such net-
works.
(3) A description of any policies or commu-
nity guidance that would be necessary to
govern the potential solution, such as a proc-
ess for determining the appropriate use of a
secure mobile telephone and any limitations
associated with such use.
SEC. 314. POLICY ON MINIMUM INSIDER THREAT
STANDARDS.
(a) POLICY REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall establish a policy for minimum insider
threat standards that is consistent with the
National Insider Threat Policy and Min-
imum Standards for Executive Branch In-
sider Threat Programs.
(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the head of each element of the intel-
ligence community shall implement the pol-
icy established under subsection (a).
SEC. 315. SUBMISSION OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY POLICIES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELECTRONIC REPOSITORY.—The term
‘‘electronic repository’’ means the electronic
distribution mechanism, in use as of the date
of the enactment of this Act, or any suc-
cessor electronic distribution mechanism, by
which the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the congressional intelligence
committees information.
(2) POLICY.—The term ‘‘policy’’, with re-
spect to the intelligence community, in-
cludes unclassified or classified—
(A) directives, policy guidance, and policy
memoranda of the intelligence community;
(B) executive correspondence of the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence; and
(C) any equivalent successor policy instru-
ments.
(b) SUBMISSION OF POLICIES.—
(1) CURRENT POLICY.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees using the electronic re-
pository all nonpublicly available policies
issued by the Director of National Intel-
ligence for the intelligence community that
are in effect as of the date of the submission.
(2) CONTINUOUS UPDATES.—Not later than 15
days after the date on which the Director of
National Intelligence issues, modifies, or re-
scinds a policy of the intelligence commu-
nity, the Director shall—
(A) notify the congressional intelligence
committees of such addition, modification,
or removal; and
(B) update the electronic repository with
respect to such addition, modification, or re-
moval.
SEC. 316. EXPANSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY RECRUITMENT EFFORTS.
In order to further increase the diversity of
the intelligence community workforce, not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00156 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3787
June 18, 2019
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in consultation with heads of
elements of the Intelligence Community,
shall create, implement, and submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a
written plan to ensure that rural and under-
represented regions are more fully and con-
sistently represented in such elements’ em-
ployment recruitment efforts. Upon receipt
of the plan, the congressional committees
shall have 60 days to submit comments to
the Director of National Intelligence before
such plan shall be implemented.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of National
Intelligence
SEC. 401. AUTHORITY FOR PROTECTION OF CUR-
RENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF
THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
Section 5(a)(4) of the Central Intelligence
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3506(a)(4)) is
amended by striking ‘‘such personnel of the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence as the Director of National Intel-
ligence may designate;’’ and inserting ‘‘cur-
rent and former personnel of the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence and their
immediate families as the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may designate;’’.
SEC. 402. DESIGNATION OF THE PROGRAM MAN-
AGER-INFORMATION SHARING ENVI-
RONMENT.
(a) INFORMATION SHARING ENVIRONMENT.—
Section 1016(b) of the Intelligence Reform
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6
U.S.C. 485(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ and inserting ‘‘Director of National In-
telligence’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ both places that term appears and in-
serting ‘‘Director of National Intelligence’’.
(b) PROGRAM MANAGER.—Section 1016(f)(1)
of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism
Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(f)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘The individual des-
ignated as the program manager shall serve
as program manager until removed from
service or replaced by the President (at the
President’s sole discretion).’’ and inserting
‘‘Beginning on the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019, each individual
designated as the program manager shall be
appointed by the Director of National Intel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 403. TECHNICAL MODIFICATION TO THE EX-
ECUTIVE SCHEDULE.
Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Director of the National Counterintel-
ligence and Security Center.’’.
SEC. 404. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103I(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3034(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Financial Officer shall re-
port directly to the Director of National In-
telligence.’’.
SEC. 405. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Information Officer shall
report directly to the Director of National
Intelligence.’’.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
SEC. 411. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY SUB-
SISTENCE FOR PERSONNEL AS-
SIGNED TO AUSTERE LOCATIONS.
Subsection (a) of section 5 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C.
3506) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(50 U.S.C.
403–4a).,’’ and inserting ‘‘(50 U.S.C. 403–4a),’’;
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (7), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph (8):
‘‘(8) Upon the approval of the Director, pro-
vide, during any fiscal year, with or without
reimbursement, subsistence to any personnel
assigned to an overseas location designated
by the Agency as an austere location.’’.
SEC. 412. EXPANSION OF SECURITY PROTECTIVE
SERVICE JURISDICTION OF THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
Subsection (a) of section 15 of the Central
Intelligence Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3515(a)) is
amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘POLICEMEN’’ and inserting ‘‘POLICE OFFI-
CERS’’; and
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘500
feet;’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards;’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘500
feet.’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards.’’.
SEC. 413. REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT FOR CER-
TAIN SENIOR LEVEL POSITIONS IN
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY.
(a) REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT.—Section 104A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3036)
is amended by striking subsection (g).
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL OF REPORT RE-
QUIREMENT.—Section 611 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Pub-
lic Law 108–487) is amended by striking sub-
section (c).
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence of Department of Energy
SEC. 421. CONSOLIDATION OF DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY OFFICES OF INTELLIGENCE
AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 215 of the Depart-
ment of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C.
7144b) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE AND
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
‘‘SEC. 215. (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section,
the terms ‘intelligence community’ and ‘Na-
tional Intelligence Program’ have the mean-
ings given such terms in section 3 of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
‘‘(b) IN GENERAL.—There is in the Depart-
ment an Office of Intelligence and Counter-
intelligence. Such office shall be under the
National Intelligence Program.
‘‘(c) DIRECTOR.—(1) The head of the Office
shall be the Director of the Office of Intel-
ligence and Counterintelligence, who shall
be an employee in the Senior Executive
Service, the Senior Intelligence Service, the
Senior National Intelligence Service, or any
other Service that the Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the Director of National Intel-
ligence, considers appropriate. The Director
of the Office shall report directly to the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall select an indi-
vidual to serve as the Director from among
individuals who have substantial expertise in
matters relating to the intelligence commu-
nity, including foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence.
‘‘(d) DUTIES.—(1) Subject to the authority,
direction, and control of the Secretary, the
Director shall perform such duties and exer-
cise such powers as the Secretary may pre-
scribe.
‘‘(2) The Director shall be responsible for
establishing policy for intelligence and coun-
terintelligence programs and activities at
the Department.’’.
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL.—Section 216 of
the Department of Energy Organization Act
(42 U.S.C. 7144c) is hereby repealed.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents at the beginning of the Department
of Energy Organization Act is amended by
striking the items relating to sections 215
and 216 and inserting the following new item:
‘‘215. Office of Intelligence and Counterintel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 422. REPEAL OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
INTELLIGENCE EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE AND BUDGET REPORTING
REQUIREMENT.
Section 214 of the Department of Energy
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144a) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘(a) DUTY OF SECRETARY.—
’’; and
(2) by striking subsections (b) and (c).
Subtitle D—Other Elements
SEC. 431. PLAN FOR DESIGNATION OF COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE COMPONENT OF DE-
FENSE SECURITY SERVICE AS AN
ELEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence and Under Secretary of
Defense for Intelligence, in coordination
with the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center, shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees, the Committee on Armed Services
of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives a
plan to designate the counterintelligence
component of the Defense Security Service
of the Department of Defense as an element
of the intelligence community by not later
than January 1, 2019. Such plan shall—
(1) address the implications of such des-
ignation on the authorities, governance, per-
sonnel, resources, information technology,
collection, analytic products, information
sharing, and business processes of the De-
fense Security Service and the intelligence
community; and
(2) not address the personnel security func-
tions of the Defense Security Service.
SEC. 432. NOTICE NOT REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE
ENTITIES.
Section 3553 of title 44, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (j) as sub-
section (k); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to require the
Secretary to provide notice to any private
entity before the Secretary issues a binding
operational directive under subsection
(b)(2).’’.
SEC. 433. FRAMEWORK FOR ROLES, MISSIONS,
AND FUNCTIONS OF DEFENSE IN-
TELLIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense
shall jointly establish a framework to ensure
the appropriate balance of resources for the
roles, missions, and functions of the Defense
Intelligence Agency in its capacity as an ele-
ment of the intelligence community and as a
combat support agency. The framework shall
include supporting processes to provide for
the consistent and regular reevaluation of
the responsibilities and resources of the De-
fense Intelligence Agency to prevent imbal-
anced priorities, insufficient or misaligned
resources, and the unauthorized expansion of
mission parameters.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00157 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3788 June 18, 2019
(b) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The frame-
work required under subsection (a) shall in-
clude each of the following:
(1) A lexicon providing for consistent defi-
nitions of relevant terms used by both the
intelligence community and the Department
of Defense, including each of the following:
(A) Defense intelligence enterprise.
(B) Enterprise manager.
(C) Executive agent.
(D) Function.
(E) Functional manager.
(F) Mission.
(G) Mission manager.
(H) Responsibility.
(I) Role.
(J) Service of common concern.
(2) An assessment of the necessity of main-
taining separate designations for the intel-
ligence community and the Department of
Defense for intelligence functional or enter-
prise management constructs.
(3) A repeatable process for evaluating the
addition, transfer, or elimination of defense
intelligence missions, roles, and functions,
currently performed or to be performed in
the future by the Defense Intelligence Agen-
cy, which includes each of the following:
(A) A justification for the addition, trans-
fer, or elimination of a mission, role, or func-
tion.
(B) The identification of which, if any, ele-
ment of the Federal Government performs
the considered mission, role, or function.
(C) In the case of any new mission, role, or
function—
(i) an assessment of the most appropriate
agency or element to perform such mission,
role, or function, taking into account the re-
source profiles, scope of responsibilities, pri-
mary customers, and existing infrastructure
necessary to support such mission, role, or
function; and
(ii) a determination of the appropriate re-
source profile and an identification of the
projected resources needed and the proposed
source of such resources over the future-
years defense program, to be provided in
writing to any elements of the intelligence
community or the Department of Defense af-
fected by the assumption, transfer, or elimi-
nation of any mission, role, or function.
(D) In the case of any mission, role, or
function proposed to be assumed, trans-
ferred, or eliminated, an assessment, which
shall be completed jointly by the heads of
each element affected by such assumption,
transfer, or elimination, of the risks that
would be assumed by the intelligence com-
munity and the Department if such mission,
role, or function is assumed, transferred, or
eliminated.
(E) A description of how determinations
are made regarding the funding of programs
and activities under the National Intel-
ligence Program and the Military Intel-
ligence Program, including—
(i) which programs or activities are funded
under each such Program;
(ii) which programs or activities should be
jointly funded under both such Programs and
how determinations are made with respect to
funding allocations for such programs and
activities; and
(iii) the thresholds and process for chang-
ing a program or activity from being funded
under one such Program to being funded
under the other such Program.
SEC. 434. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY BOARD
FOR NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE
OFFICE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 106A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3041a) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(d) ADVISORY BOARD.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the National Reconnaissance Office an ad-
visory board (in this section referred to as
the ‘Board’).
‘‘(2) DUTIES.—The Board shall—
‘‘(A) study matters relating to the mission
of the National Reconnaissance Office, in-
cluding with respect to promoting innova-
tion, competition, and resilience in space,
overhead reconnaissance, acquisition, and
other matters; and
‘‘(B) advise and report directly to the Di-
rector with respect to such matters.
‘‘(3) MEMBERS.—
‘‘(A) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall be com-
posed of 5 members appointed by the Direc-
tor from among individuals with dem-
onstrated academic, government, business,
or other expertise relevant to the mission
and functions of the National Reconnais-
sance Office.
‘‘(ii) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Director ap-
points a member to the Board, the Director
shall notify the congressional intelligence
committees and the congressional defense
committees (as defined in section 101(a) of
title 10, United States Code) of such appoint-
ment.
‘‘(B) TERMS.—Each member shall be ap-
pointed for a term of 2 years. Except as pro-
vided by subparagraph (C), a member may
not serve more than 3 terms.
‘‘(C) VACANCY.—Any member appointed to
fill a vacancy occurring before the expira-
tion of the term for which the member’s
predecessor was appointed shall be appointed
only for the remainder of that term. A mem-
ber may serve after the expiration of that
member’s term until a successor has taken
office.
‘‘(D) CHAIR.—The Board shall have a Chair,
who shall be appointed by the Director from
among the members.
‘‘(E) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Each member
shall receive travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance
with applicable provisions under subchapter
I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(F) EXECUTIVE SECRETARY.—The Director
may appoint an executive secretary, who
shall be an employee of the National Recon-
naissance Office, to support the Board.
‘‘(4) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet not
less than quarterly, but may meet more fre-
quently at the call of the Director.
‘‘(5) REPORTS.—Not later than March 31 of
each year, the Board shall submit to the Di-
rector and to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the activities and
significant findings of the Board during the
preceding year.
‘‘(6) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the
Board.
‘‘(7) TERMINATION.—The Board shall termi-
nate on the date that is 3 years after the
date of the first meeting of the Board.’’.
(b) INITIAL APPOINTMENTS.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of the National Recon-
naissance Office shall appoint the initial 5
members to the advisory board under sub-
section (d) of section 106A of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a), as
added by subsection (a).
SEC. 435. COLLOCATION OF CERTAIN DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
PERSONNEL AT FIELD LOCATIONS.
(a) IDENTIFICATION OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
COLLOCATION.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis shall identify, in
consultation with the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, the Admin-
istrator of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, the Director of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, and the
heads of such other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security as the Under
Secretary considers appropriate, opportuni-
ties for collocation of officers of the Office of
Intelligence and Analysis in the field outside
of the greater Washington, District of Co-
lumbia, area in order to support operational
units from U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration, U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, and other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
(b) PLAN FOR COLLOCATION.—Not later than
120 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit
to the congressional intelligence committees
a report that includes a plan for collocation
as described in subsection (a).
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
SEC. 501. REPORT ON CYBER ATTACKS BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES ELECTION INFRA-
STRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(D) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate; and
(E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means any
State of the United States, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity for Intelligence and Analysis shall sub-
mit to congressional leadership and the ap-
propriate congressional committees a report
on cyber attacks and attempted cyber at-
tacks by foreign governments on United
States election infrastructure in States and
localities in connection with the 2016 Presi-
dential election in the United States and
such cyber attacks or attempted cyber at-
tacks as the Under Secretary anticipates
against such infrastructure. Such report
shall identify the States and localities af-
fected and shall include cyber attacks and
attempted cyber attacks against voter reg-
istration databases, voting machines, voting-
related computer networks, and the net-
works of Secretaries of State and other elec-
tion officials of the various States.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 502. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY’S POSTURE TO COLLECT
AGAINST AND ANALYZE RUSSIAN EF-
FORTS TO INFLUENCE THE PRESI-
DENTIAL ELECTION.
(a) REVIEW REQUIRED.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall—
(1) complete an after action review of the
posture of the intelligence community to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00158 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3789
June 18, 2019
collect against and analyze efforts of the
Government of Russia to interfere in the 2016
Presidential election in the United States;
and
(2) submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the findings of the
Director with respect to such review.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The review required by
subsection (a) shall include, with respect to
the posture and efforts described in para-
graph (1) of such subsection, the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the resources
of the intelligence community were properly
aligned to detect and respond to the efforts
described in subsection (a)(1).
(2) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred within elements of the in-
telligence community.
(3) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred between elements of the
intelligence community.
(4) An assessment of applicable authorities
necessary to collect on any such efforts and
any deficiencies in those authorities.
(5) A review of the use of open source mate-
rial to inform analysis and warning of such
efforts.
(6) A review of the use of alternative and
predictive analysis.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (a)(2) shall be submitted to the
congressional intelligence committees in a
classified form.
SEC. 503. ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN INTEL-
LIGENCE THREATS TO FEDERAL
ELECTIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 102 of the Cyber-
security Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6
U.S.C. 1501).
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Direc-
tor of the Central Intelligence Agency, the
Director of the National Security Agency,
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, and the heads of other relevant ele-
ments of the intelligence community, shall—
(1) commence not later than 1 year before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, and com-
plete not later than 180 days before such
election, an assessment of security
vulnerabilities of State election systems;
and
(2) not later than 180 days before any regu-
larly scheduled Federal election occurring
after December 31, 2018, submit a report on
such security vulnerabilities and an assess-
ment of foreign intelligence threats to the
election to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
(c) UPDATE.—Not later than 90 days before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, the Director
of National Intelligence shall—
(1) update the assessment of foreign intel-
ligence threats to that election; and
(2) submit the updated assessment to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
SEC. 504. STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING RUSSIAN
CYBER THREATS TO UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(4) The Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
(5) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR A STRATEGY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Di-
rector of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of De-
fense, and the Secretary of the Treasury,
shall develop a whole-of-government strat-
egy for countering the threat of Russian
cyber attacks and attempted cyber attacks
against electoral systems and processes in
the United States, including Federal, State,
and local election systems, voter registra-
tion databases, voting tabulation equipment,
and equipment and processes for the secure
transmission of election results.
(c) ELEMENTS OF THE STRATEGY.—The
strategy required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude the following elements:
(1) A whole-of-government approach to pro-
tecting United States electoral systems and
processes that includes the agencies and de-
partments indicated in subsection (b) as well
as any other agencies and departments of the
United States, as determined appropriate by
the Director of National Intelligence and the
Secretary of Homeland Security.
(2) Input solicited from Secretaries of
State of the various States and the chief
election officials of the States.
(3) Technical security measures, including
auditable paper trails for voting machines,
securing wireless and Internet connections,
and other technical safeguards.
(4) Detection of cyber threats, including
attacks and attempted attacks by Russian
government or nongovernment cyber threat
actors.
(5) Improvements in the identification and
attribution of Russian government or non-
government cyber threat actors.
(6) Deterrence, including actions and meas-
ures that could or should be undertaken
against or communicated to the Government
of Russia or other entities to deter attacks
against, or interference with, United States
election systems and processes.
(7) Improvements in Federal Government
communications with State and local elec-
tion officials.
(8) Public education and communication
efforts.
(9) Benchmarks and milestones to enable
the measurement of concrete steps taken
and progress made in the implementation of
the strategy.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence and the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity shall jointly brief the appropriate con-
gressional committees on the strategy devel-
oped under subsection (b).
SEC. 505. ASSESSMENT OF SIGNIFICANT RUSSIAN
INFLUENCE CAMPAIGNS DIRECTED
AT FOREIGN ELECTIONS AND
REFERENDA.
(a) RUSSIAN INFLUENCE CAMPAIGN DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Russian
influence campaign’’ means any effort, cov-
ert or overt, and by any means, attributable
to the Russian Federation directed at an
election, referendum, or similar process in a
country other than the Russian Federation
or the United States.
(b) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
60 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report containing an
analytical assessment of the most signifi-
cant Russian influence campaigns, if any,
conducted during the 3-year period preceding
the date of the enactment of this Act, as well
as the most significant current or planned
such Russian influence campaigns, if any.
Such assessment shall include—
(1) a summary of such significant Russian
influence campaigns, including, at a min-
imum, the specific means by which such
campaigns were conducted, are being con-
ducted, or likely will be conducted, as appro-
priate, and the specific goal of each such
campaign;
(2) a summary of any defenses against or
responses to such Russian influence cam-
paigns by the foreign state holding the elec-
tions or referenda;
(3) a summary of any relevant activities by
elements of the intelligence community un-
dertaken for the purpose of assisting the
government of such foreign state in defend-
ing against or responding to such Russian in-
fluence campaigns; and
(4) an assessment of the effectiveness of
such defenses and responses described in
paragraphs (2) and (3).
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) may be submitted in classified
form, but if so submitted, shall contain an
unclassified summary.
SEC. 506. FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND
CYBERSECURITY THREATS TO FED-
ERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As provided in paragraph
(2), for each Federal election, the Director of
National Intelligence, in coordination with
the Under Secretary of Homeland Security
for Intelligence and Analysis and the Direc-
tor of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
shall make publicly available on an Internet
website an advisory report on foreign coun-
terintelligence and cybersecurity threats to
election campaigns for Federal offices. Each
such report shall include, consistent with
the protection of sources and methods, each
of the following:
(A) A description of foreign counterintel-
ligence and cybersecurity threats to election
campaigns for Federal offices.
(B) A summary of best practices that elec-
tion campaigns for Federal offices can em-
ploy in seeking to counter such threats.
(C) An identification of any publicly avail-
able resources, including United States Gov-
ernment resources, for countering such
threats.
(2) SCHEDULE FOR SUBMITTAL.—A report
under this subsection shall be made avail-
able as follows:
(A) In the case of a report regarding an
election held for the office of Senator or
Member of the House of Representatives dur-
ing 2018, not later than the date that is 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00159 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3790 June 18, 2019
(B) In the case of a report regarding an
election for a Federal office during any sub-
sequent year, not later than the date that is
1 year before the date of the election.
(3) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED.—A report
under this subsection shall reflect the most
current information available to the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence regarding for-
eign counterintelligence and cybersecurity
threats.
(b) TREATMENT OF CAMPAIGNS SUBJECT TO
HEIGHTENED THREATS.—If the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis jointly determine
that an election campaign for Federal office
is subject to a heightened foreign counter-
intelligence or cybersecurity threat, the Di-
rector and the Under Secretary, consistent
with the protection of sources and methods,
may make available additional information
to the appropriate representatives of such
campaign.
SEC. 507. INFORMATION SHARING WITH STATE
ELECTION OFFICIALS.
(a) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ means any State of the United
States, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory
or possession of the United States.
(b) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
support the Under Secretary of Homeland
Security for Intelligence and Analysis, and
any other official of the Department of
Homeland Security designated by the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, in sponsoring a
security clearance up to the top secret level
for each eligible chief election official of a
State or the District of Columbia, and addi-
tional eligible designees of such election offi-
cial as appropriate, at the time that such
election official assumes such position.
(2) INTERIM CLEARANCES.—Consistent with
applicable policies and directives, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence may issue in-
terim clearances, for a period to be deter-
mined by the Director, to a chief election of-
ficial as described in paragraph (1) and up to
1 designee of such official under such para-
graph.
(c) INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall assist the Under Secretary
of Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis and the Under Secretary respon-
sible for overseeing critical infrastructure
protection, cybersecurity, and other related
programs of the Department (as specified in
section 103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 113(a)(1)(H))) with shar-
ing any appropriate classified information
related to threats to election systems and to
the integrity of the election process with
chief election officials and such designees
who have received a security clearance under
subsection (b).
(2) COORDINATION.—The Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis shall coordinate with the Director
of National Intelligence and the Under Sec-
retary responsible for overseeing critical in-
frastructure protection, cybersecurity, and
other related programs of the Department
(as specified in section 103(a)(1)(H) of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
113(a)(1)(H))) to facilitate the sharing of in-
formation to the affected Secretaries of
State or States.
SEC. 508. NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND AC-
TIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGNS DI-
RECTED AT ELECTIONS FOR FED-
ERAL OFFICES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGN.—The term
‘‘active measures campaign’’ means a foreign
semi-covert or covert intelligence operation.
(2) CANDIDATE, ELECTION, AND POLITICAL
PARTY.—The terms ‘‘candidate’’, ‘‘election’’,
and ‘‘political party’’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 301 of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101).
(3) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(4) CYBER INTRUSION.—The term ‘‘cyber in-
trusion’’ means an electronic occurrence
that actually or imminently jeopardizes,
without lawful authority, electronic election
infrastructure, or the integrity, confiden-
tiality, or availability of information within
such infrastructure.
(5) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUC-
TURE.—The term ‘‘electronic election infra-
structure’’ means an electronic information
system of any of the following that is related
to an election for Federal office:
(A) The Federal Government.
(B) A State or local government.
(C) A political party.
(D) The election campaign of a candidate.
(6) FEDERAL OFFICE.—The term ‘‘Federal
office’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
(7) HIGH CONFIDENCE.—The term ‘‘high con-
fidence’’, with respect to a determination,
means that the determination is based on
high-quality information from multiple
sources.
(8) MODERATE CONFIDENCE.—The term
‘‘moderate confidence’’, with respect to a de-
termination, means that a determination is
credibly sourced and plausible but not of suf-
ficient quality or corroborated sufficiently
to warrant a higher level of confidence.
(9) OTHER APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL
COMMITTEES.—The term ‘‘other appropriate
congressional committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
(b) DETERMINATIONS OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGNS.—The Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall jointly carry out
subsection (c) if such Directors and the Sec-
retary jointly determine—
(1) that on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, a significant foreign cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign in-
tended to influence an upcoming election for
any Federal office has occurred or is occur-
ring; and
(2) with moderate or high confidence, that
such intrusion or campaign can be attributed
to a foreign state or to a foreign nonstate
person, group, or other entity.
(c) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 14 days
after making a determination under sub-
section (b), the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall jointly provide a briefing
to the congressional leadership, the congres-
sional intelligence committees and, con-
sistent with the protection of sources and
methods, the other appropriate congres-
sional committees. The briefing shall be
classified and address, at a minimum, the
following:
(A) A description of the significant foreign
cyber intrusion or active measures cam-
paign, as the case may be, covered by the de-
termination.
(B) An identification of the foreign state or
foreign nonstate person, group, or other enti-
ty, to which such intrusion or campaign has
been attributed.
(C) The desirability and feasibility of the
public release of information about the cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign.
(D) Any other information such Directors
and the Secretary jointly determine appro-
priate.
(2) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
BRIEFINGS.—With respect to a significant for-
eign cyber intrusion covered by a determina-
tion under subsection (b), the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Director of National Intelligence and the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall offer to the owner or operator of
any electronic election infrastructure di-
rectly affected by such intrusion, a briefing
on such intrusion, including steps that may
be taken to mitigate such intrusion. Such
briefing may be classified and made avail-
able only to individuals with appropriate se-
curity clearances.
(3) PROTECTION OF SOURCES AND METHODS.—
This subsection shall be carried out in a
manner that is consistent with the protec-
tion of sources and methods.
SEC. 509. DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER TO LEAD ELEC-
TION SECURITY MATTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall designate a national coun-
terintelligence officer within the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center to
lead, manage, and coordinate counterintel-
ligence matters relating to election security.
(b) ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.—The per-
son designated under subsection (a) shall
also lead, manage, and coordinate counter-
intelligence matters relating to risks posed
by interference from foreign powers (as de-
fined in section 101 of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C.
1801)) to the following:
(1) The Federal Government election secu-
rity supply chain.
(2) Election voting systems and software.
(3) Voter registration databases.
(4) Critical infrastructure related to elec-
tions.
(5) Such other Government goods and serv-
ices as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(E) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(F) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives;
(G) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives; and
(H) the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form of the House of Representatives.
(2) APPROPRIATE INDUSTRY PARTNERS.—The
term ‘‘appropriate industry partner’’ means
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00160 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3791
June 18, 2019
a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined
in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to National Indus-
trial Security Program)) that is partici-
pating in the National Industrial Security
Program established by such Executive
Order.
(3) CONTINUOUS VETTING.—The term ‘‘con-
tinuous vetting’’ has the meaning given such
term in Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information).
(4) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing
Performance Accountability Council estab-
lished pursuant to such Executive Order, or
any successor entity.
(5) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘‘Security Executive Agent’’ means the offi-
cer serving as the Security Executive Agent
pursuant to section 803 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947, as added by section 605.
(6) SUITABILITY AND CREDENTIALING EXECU-
TIVE AGENT.—The term ‘‘Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent’’ means the
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment acting as the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent in accordance
with Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information), or any successor entity.
SEC. 602. REPORTS AND PLANS RELATING TO SE-
CURITY CLEARANCES AND BACK-
GROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) ensuring the trustworthiness and secu-
rity of the workforce, facilities, and informa-
tion of the Federal Government is of the
highest priority to national security and
public safety;
(2) the President and Congress should
prioritize the modernization of the personnel
security framework to improve its effi-
ciency, effectiveness, and accountability;
(3) the current system for security clear-
ance, suitability and fitness for employment,
and credentialing lacks efficiencies and ca-
pabilities to meet the current threat envi-
ronment, recruit and retain a trusted work-
force, and capitalize on modern technologies;
and
(4) changes to policies or processes to im-
prove this system should be vetted through
the Council to ensure standardization, port-
ability, and reciprocity in security clear-
ances across the Federal Government.
(b) ACCOUNTABILITY PLANS AND REPORTS.—
(1) PLANS.—Not later than 90 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners the following:
(A) A plan, with milestones, to reduce the
background investigation inventory to
200,000, or an otherwise sustainable steady-
level, by the end of year 2020. Such plan shall
include notes of any required changes in in-
vestigative and adjudicative standards or re-
sources.
(B) A plan to consolidate the conduct of
background investigations associated with
the processing for security clearances in the
most effective and efficient manner between
the National Background Investigation Bu-
reau and the Defense Security Service, or a
successor organization. Such plan shall ad-
dress required funding, personnel, contracts,
information technology, field office struc-
ture, policy, governance, schedule, transition
costs, and effects on stakeholders.
(2) REPORT ON THE FUTURE OF PERSONNEL
SECURITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chairman of the Council, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report on the future of
personnel security to reflect changes in
threats, the workforce, and technology.
(B) CONTENTS.—The report submitted
under subparagraph (A) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(i) A risk framework for granting and re-
newing access to classified information.
(ii) A discussion of the use of technologies
to prevent, detect, and monitor threats.
(iii) A discussion of efforts to address reci-
procity and portability.
(iv) A discussion of the characteristics of
effective insider threat programs.
(v) An analysis of how to integrate data
from continuous evaluation, insider threat
programs, and human resources data.
(vi) Recommendations on interagency gov-
ernance.
(3) PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Chairman of the Council, in
coordination with the members of the Coun-
cil, shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to imple-
ment the report’s framework and rec-
ommendations submitted under paragraph
(2)(A).
(4) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—Not less
frequently than quarterly, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall make available to the
public a report regarding the status of the
disposition of requests received from depart-
ments and agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment for a change to, or approval under, the
Federal investigative standards, the national
adjudicative guidelines, continuous evalua-
tion, or other national policy regarding per-
sonnel security.
SEC. 603. IMPROVING THE PROCESS FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES.
(a) REVIEWS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that includes the
following:
(1) A review of whether the information re-
quested on the Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (Standard Form 86) and
by the Federal Investigative Standards pre-
scribed by the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment and the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence appropriately supports
the adjudicative guidelines under Security
Executive Agent Directive 4 (known as the
‘‘National Security Adjudicative Guide-
lines’’). Such review shall include identifica-
tion of whether any such information cur-
rently collected is unnecessary to support
the adjudicative guidelines.
(2) An assessment of whether such Ques-
tionnaire, Standards, and guidelines should
be revised to account for the prospect of a
holder of a security clearance becoming an
insider threat.
(3) Recommendations to improve the back-
ground investigation process by—
(A) simplifying the Questionnaire for Na-
tional Security Positions (Standard Form 86)
and increasing customer support to appli-
cants completing such Questionnaire;
(B) using remote techniques and central-
ized locations to support or replace field in-
vestigation work;
(C) using secure and reliable digitization of
information obtained during the clearance
process;
(D) building the capacity of the back-
ground investigation labor sector; and
(E) replacing periodic reinvestigations
with continuous evaluation techniques in all
appropriate circumstances.
(b) POLICY, STRATEGY, AND IMPLEMENTA-
TION.—Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Security
Executive Agent shall, in coordination with
the members of the Council, establish the
following:
(1) A policy and implementation plan for
the issuance of interim security clearances.
(2) A policy and implementation plan to
ensure contractors are treated consistently
in the security clearance process across
agencies and departments of the United
States as compared to employees of such
agencies and departments. Such policy shall
address—
(A) prioritization of processing security
clearances based on the mission the contrac-
tors will be performing;
(B) standardization in the forms that agen-
cies issue to initiate the process for a secu-
rity clearance;
(C) digitization of background investiga-
tion-related forms;
(D) use of the polygraph;
(E) the application of the adjudicative
guidelines under Security Executive Agent
Directive 4 (known as the ‘‘National Secu-
rity Adjudicative Guidelines’’);
(F) reciprocal recognition of clearances
across agencies and departments of the
United States, regardless of status of peri-
odic reinvestigation;
(G) tracking of clearance files as individ-
uals move from employment with an agency
or department of the United States to em-
ployment in the private sector;
(H) collection of timelines for movement of
contractors across agencies and depart-
ments;
(I) reporting on security incidents and job
performance, consistent with section 552a of
title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Privacy Act of 1974’’), that
may affect the ability to hold a security
clearance;
(J) any recommended changes to the Fed-
eral Acquisition Regulations (FAR) nec-
essary to ensure that information affecting
contractor clearances or suitability is appro-
priately and expeditiously shared between
and among agencies and contractors; and
(K) portability of contractor security
clearances between or among contracts at
the same agency and between or among con-
tracts at different agencies that require the
same level of clearance.
(3) A strategy and implementation plan
that—
(A) provides for periodic reinvestigations
as part of a security clearance determination
only on an as-needed, risk-based basis;
(B) includes actions to assess the extent to
which automated records checks and other
continuous evaluation methods may be used
to expedite or focus reinvestigations; and
(C) provides an exception for certain popu-
lations if the Security Executive Agent—
(i) determines such populations require re-
investigations at regular intervals; and
(ii) provides written justification to the
appropriate congressional committees for
any such determination.
(4) A policy and implementation plan for
agencies and departments of the United
States, as a part of the security clearance
process, to accept automated records checks
generated pursuant to a security clearance
applicant’s employment with a prior em-
ployer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00161 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3792 June 18, 2019
(5) A policy for the use of certain back-
ground materials on individuals collected by
the private sector for background investiga-
tion purposes.
(6) Uniform standards for agency contin-
uous evaluation programs to ensure quality
and reciprocity in accepting enrollment in a
continuous vetting program as a substitute
for a periodic investigation for continued ac-
cess to classified information.
SEC. 604. GOALS FOR PROMPTNESS OF DETER-
MINATIONS REGARDING SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) RECIPROCITY DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘reciprocity’’ means reciprocal rec-
ognition by Federal departments and agen-
cies of eligibility for access to classified in-
formation.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Council shall reform
the security clearance process with the ob-
jective that, by December 31, 2021, 90 percent
of all determinations, other than determina-
tions regarding populations identified under
section 603(b)(3)(C), regarding—
(1) security clearances—
(A) at the secret level are issued in 30 days
or fewer; and
(B) at the top secret level are issued in 90
days or fewer; and
(2) reciprocity of security clearances at the
same level are recognized in 2 weeks or
fewer.
(c) CERTAIN REINVESTIGATIONS.—The Coun-
cil shall reform the security clearance proc-
ess with the goal that by December 31, 2021,
reinvestigation on a set periodicity is not re-
quired for more than 10 percent of the popu-
lation that holds a security clearance.
(d) EQUIVALENT METRICS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Council develops a
set of performance metrics that it certifies
to the appropriate congressional committees
should achieve substantially equivalent out-
comes as those outlined in subsections (b)
and (c), the Council may use those metrics
for purposes of compliance within this provi-
sion.
(2) NOTICE.—If the Council uses the author-
ity provided by paragraph (1) to use metrics
as described in such paragraph, the Council
shall, not later than 30 days after commu-
nicating such metrics to departments and
agencies, notify the appropriate congres-
sional committees that it is using such au-
thority.
(e) PLAN.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to carry
out this section. Such plan shall include rec-
ommended interim milestones for the goals
set forth in subsections (b) and (c) for 2019,
2020, and 2021.
SEC. 605. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VIII of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 803 and 804 as
sections 804 and 805, respectively; and
(2) by inserting after section 802 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 803. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, or such other officer of the
United States as the President may des-
ignate, shall serve as the Security Executive
Agent for all departments and agencies of
the United States.
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The duties of the Security
Executive Agent are as follows:
‘‘(1) To direct the oversight of investiga-
tions, reinvestigations, adjudications, and,
as applicable, polygraphs for eligibility for
access to classified information or eligibility
to hold a sensitive position made by any
Federal agency.
‘‘(2) To review the national security back-
ground investigation and adjudication pro-
grams of Federal agencies to determine
whether such programs are being imple-
mented in accordance with this section.
‘‘(3) To develop and issue uniform and con-
sistent policies and procedures to ensure the
effective, efficient, timely, and secure com-
pletion of investigations, polygraphs, and ad-
judications relating to determinations of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position.
‘‘(4) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to conduct inves-
tigations of persons who are proposed for ac-
cess to classified information or for eligi-
bility to hold a sensitive position to ascer-
tain whether such persons satisfy the cri-
teria for obtaining and retaining access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, as applicable.
‘‘(5) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to determine eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position in
accordance with Executive Order 12968 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to access to classi-
fied information).
‘‘(6) To ensure reciprocal recognition of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position
among Federal agencies, including acting as
the final authority to arbitrate and resolve
disputes among such agencies involving the
reciprocity of investigations and adjudica-
tions of eligibility.
‘‘(7) To execute all other duties assigned to
the Security Executive Agent by law.
‘‘(c) AUTHORITIES.—The Security Executive
Agent shall—
‘‘(1) issue guidelines and instructions to
the heads of Federal agencies to ensure ap-
propriate uniformity, centralization, effi-
ciency, effectiveness, timeliness, and secu-
rity in processes relating to determinations
by such agencies of eligibility for access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, including such matters as
investigations, polygraphs, adjudications,
and reciprocity;
‘‘(2) have the authority to grant exceptions
to, or waivers of, national security investiga-
tive requirements, including issuing imple-
menting or clarifying guidance, as necessary;
‘‘(3) have the authority to assign, in whole
or in part, to the head of any Federal agency
(solely or jointly) any of the duties of the Se-
curity Executive Agent described in sub-
section (b) or the authorities described in
paragraphs (1) and (2), provided that the ex-
ercise of such assigned duties or authorities
is subject to the oversight of the Security
Executive Agent, including such terms and
conditions (including approval by the Secu-
rity Executive Agent) as the Security Execu-
tive Agent determines appropriate; and
‘‘(4) define and set standards for contin-
uous evaluation for continued access to clas-
sified information and for eligibility to hold
a sensitive position.’’.
(b) REPORT ON RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RE-
VISING AUTHORITIES.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Chairman of the
Council submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees the report required by
section 602(b)(2)(A), the Chairman shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees such recommendations as the Chair-
man may have for revising the authorities of
the Security Executive Agent.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
103H(j)(4)(A) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
3033(j)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘in sec-
tion 804’’ and inserting ‘‘in section 805’’.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
such Act (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by strik-
ing the items relating to sections 803 and 804
and inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 803. Security Executive Agent.
‘‘Sec. 804. Exceptions.
‘‘Sec. 805. Definitions.’’.
SEC. 606. REPORT ON UNIFIED, SIMPLIFIED, GOV-
ERNMENTWIDE STANDARDS FOR PO-
SITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Security Execu-
tive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent, in coordina-
tion with the other members of the Council,
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a report re-
garding the advisability and the risks, bene-
fits, and costs to the Government and to in-
dustry of consolidating to not more than 3
tiers for positions of trust and security
clearances.
SEC. 607. REPORT ON CLEARANCE IN PERSON
CONCEPT.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that to reflect the greater mobility
of the modern workforce, alternative meth-
odologies merit analysis to allow greater
flexibility for individuals moving in and out
of positions that require access to classified
information, while still preserving security.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that describes the
requirements, feasibility, and advisability of
implementing a clearance in person concept
described in subsection (c).
(c) CLEARANCE IN PERSON CONCEPT.—The
clearance in person concept—
(1) permits an individual who once held a
security clearance to maintain his or her eli-
gibility for access to classified information,
networks, and facilities for up to 3 years
after the individual’s eligibility for access to
classified information would otherwise lapse;
and
(2) recognizes, unless otherwise directed by
the Security Executive Agent, an individ-
ual’s security clearance and background in-
vestigation as current, regardless of employ-
ment status, contingent on enrollment in a
continuous vetting program.
(d) CONTENTS.—The report required under
subsection (b) shall address—
(1) requirements for an individual to volun-
tarily remain in a continuous evaluation
program validated by the Security Executive
Agent even if the individual is not in a posi-
tion requiring access to classified informa-
tion;
(2) appropriate safeguards for privacy;
(3) advantages to government and indus-
try;
(4) the costs and savings associated with
implementation;
(5) the risks of such implementation, in-
cluding security and counterintelligence
risks;
(6) an appropriate funding model; and
(7) fairness to small companies and inde-
pendent contractors.
SEC. 608. BUDGET REQUEST DOCUMENTATION
ON FUNDING FOR BACKGROUND IN-
VESTIGATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—As part of the fiscal year
2020 budget request submitted to Congress
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United
States Code, the President shall include ex-
hibits that identify the resources expended
by each agency during the prior fiscal year
for processing background investigations and
continuous evaluation programs,
disaggregated by tier and whether the indi-
vidual was a Government employee or con-
tractor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00162 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3793
June 18, 2019
(b) CONTENTS.—Each exhibit submitted
under subsection (a) shall include details
on—
(1) the costs of background investigations
or reinvestigations;
(2) the costs associated with background
investigations for Government or contract
personnel;
(3) costs associated with continuous eval-
uation initiatives monitoring for each person
for whom a background investigation or re-
investigation was conducted, other than
costs associated with adjudication;
(4) the average per person cost for each
type of background investigation; and
(5) a summary of transfers and
reprogrammings that were executed in the
previous year to support the processing of se-
curity clearances.
SEC. 609. REPORTS ON RECIPROCITY FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES INSIDE OF DE-
PARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.
(a) RECIPROCALLY RECOGNIZED DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘reciprocally recog-
nized’’ means reciprocal recognition by Fed-
eral departments and agencies of eligibility
for access to classified information.
(b) REPORTS TO SECURITY EXECUTIVE
AGENT.—The head of each Federal depart-
ment or agency shall submit an annual re-
port to the Security Executive Agent that—
(1) identifies the number of individuals
whose security clearances take more than 2
weeks to be reciprocally recognized after
such individuals move to another part of
such department or agency; and
(2) breaks out the information described in
paragraph (1) by type of clearance and the
reasons for any delays.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not less frequently
than once each year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
industry partners an annual report that sum-
marizes the information received pursuant
to subsection (b) during the period covered
by such report.
SEC. 610. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS
ON SECURITY CLEARANCES.
Section 506H of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3104) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by adding
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a period; and
(C) by striking subparagraph (C);
(2) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c);
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS.—
(1)(A) Not later than March 1 of each year,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit a report to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate, the Committee on Home-
land Security of the House of Representa-
tives, and the Committee on Oversight and
Reform of the House of Representatives re-
garding the security clearances processed by
each element of the intelligence community
during the preceding fiscal year.
‘‘(B) The Director shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives such portions of
the report submitted under subparagraph (A)
as the Director determines address elements
of the intelligence community that are with-
in the Department of Defense.
‘‘(C) Each report submitted under this
paragraph shall separately identify security
clearances processed for Federal employees
and contractor employees sponsored by each
such element.
‘‘(2) Each report submitted under para-
graph (1)(A) shall include, for each element
of the intelligence community for the fiscal
year covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(A) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations spon-
sored for new applicants.
‘‘(B) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic reinvestigations sponsored for
existing employees.
‘‘(C) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations for new
applicants that were adjudicated with notice
of a determination provided to the prospec-
tive applicant, including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably and granted
access to classified information; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(D) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic background investigations
that were adjudicated with notice of a deter-
mination provided to the existing employee,
including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(E) The total number of pending security
clearance background investigations, includ-
ing initial applicant investigations and peri-
odic reinvestigations, that were not adju-
dicated as of the last day of such year and
that remained pending, categorized as fol-
lows:
‘‘(i) For 180 days or shorter.
‘‘(ii) For longer than 180 days, but shorter
than 12 months.
‘‘(iii) For 12 months or longer, but shorter
than 18 months.
‘‘(iv) For 18 months or longer, but shorter
than 24 months.
‘‘(v) For 24 months or longer.
‘‘(F) For any security clearance determina-
tions completed or pending during the year
preceding the year for which the report is
submitted that have taken longer than 12
months to complete—
‘‘(i) an explanation of the causes for the
delays incurred during the period covered by
the report; and
‘‘(ii) the number of such delays involving a
polygraph requirement.
‘‘(G) The percentage of security clearance
investigations, including initial and periodic
reinvestigations, that resulted in a denial or
revocation of a security clearance.
‘‘(H) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that resulted in incomplete
information.
‘‘(I) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that did not result in enough
information to make a decision on poten-
tially adverse information.
‘‘(3) The report required under this sub-
section shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.’’;
and
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by
striking ‘‘subsection (a)(1)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsections (a)(1) and (b)’’.
SEC. 611. PERIODIC REPORT ON POSITIONS IN
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
THAT CAN BE CONDUCTED WITHOUT
ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION, NETWORKS, OR FACILITIES.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act and not less fre-
quently than once every 5 years thereafter,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report that reviews the intel-
ligence community for which positions can
be conducted without access to classified in-
formation, networks, or facilities, or may
only require a security clearance at the se-
cret level.
SEC. 612. INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM FOR
POSITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall establish and implement a program to
share between and among agencies of the
Federal Government and industry partners
of the Federal Government relevant back-
ground information regarding individuals ap-
plying for and currently occupying national
security positions and positions of trust, in
order to ensure the Federal Government
maintains a trusted workforce.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The program established
under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
‘‘Trusted Information Provider Program’’ (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Program’’).
(b) PRIVACY SAFEGUARDS.—The Security
Executive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent shall ensure
that the Program includes such safeguards
for privacy as the Security Executive Agent
and the Suitability and Credentialing Execu-
tive Agent consider appropriate.
(c) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO THE FED-
ERAL GOVERNMENT.—The Program shall in-
clude requirements that enable investigative
service providers and agencies of the Federal
Government to leverage certain pre-employ-
ment information gathered during the em-
ployment or military recruiting process, and
other relevant security or human resources
information obtained during employment
with or for the Federal Government, that
satisfy Federal investigative standards,
while safeguarding personnel privacy.
(d) INFORMATION AND RECORDS.—The infor-
mation and records considered under the
Program shall include the following:
(1) Date and place of birth.
(2) Citizenship or immigration and natu-
ralization information.
(3) Education records.
(4) Employment records.
(5) Employment or social references.
(6) Military service records.
(7) State and local law enforcement
checks.
(8) Criminal history checks.
(9) Financial records or information.
(10) Foreign travel, relatives, or associa-
tions.
(11) Social media checks.
(12) Such other information or records as
may be relevant to obtaining or maintaining
national security, suitability, fitness, or
credentialing eligibility.
(e) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of the Program.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the Pro-
gram.
(f) PLAN FOR PILOT PROGRAM ON TWO-WAY
INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00163 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3794 June 18, 2019
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of a pilot program to assess
the feasibility and advisability of expanding
the Program to include the sharing of infor-
mation held by the Federal Government re-
lated to contract personnel with the security
office of the employers of those contractor
personnel.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the pilot
program.
(g) REVIEW.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a review of the
plans submitted under subsections (e)(1) and
(f)(1) and utility and effectiveness of the pro-
grams described in such plans.
SEC. 613. REPORT ON PROTECTIONS FOR CON-
FIDENTIALITY OF WHISTLEBLOWER-
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall, in coordination with the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity, submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report detailing the
controls employed by the intelligence com-
munity to ensure that continuous vetting
programs, including those involving user ac-
tivity monitoring, protect the confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related communica-
tions.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
SEC. 701. LIMITATION RELATING TO ESTABLISH-
MENT OR SUPPORT OF CYBERSECU-
RITY UNIT WITH THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(b) LIMITATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No amount may be ex-
pended by the Federal Government, other
than the Department of Defense, to enter
into or implement any bilateral agreement
between the United States and the Russian
Federation regarding cybersecurity, includ-
ing the establishment or support of any cy-
bersecurity unit, unless, at least 30 days
prior to the conclusion of any such agree-
ment, the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on such agreement that
includes the elements required by subsection
(c).
(2) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AGREEMENTS.—
Any agreement between the Department of
Defense and the Russian Federation regard-
ing cybersecurity shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 1232 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 114–328), as amended by sec-
tion 1231 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91).
(c) ELEMENTS.—If the Director submits a
report under subsection (b) with respect to
an agreement, such report shall include a de-
scription of each of the following:
(1) The purpose of the agreement.
(2) The nature of any intelligence to be
shared pursuant to the agreement.
(3) The expected value to national security
resulting from the implementation of the
agreement.
(4) Such counterintelligence concerns asso-
ciated with the agreement as the Director
may have and such measures as the Director
expects to be taken to mitigate such con-
cerns.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This section
shall not be construed to affect any existing
authority of the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, or another head of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community, to
share or receive foreign intelligence on a
case-by-case basis.
SEC. 702. REPORT ON RETURNING RUSSIAN COM-
POUNDS.
(a) COVERED COMPOUNDS DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘covered compounds’’
means the real property in New York, the
real property in Maryland, and the real prop-
erty in San Francisco, California, that were
under the control of the Government of Rus-
sia in 2016 and were removed from such con-
trol in response to various transgressions by
the Government of Russia, including the in-
terference by the Government of Russia in
the 2016 election in the United States.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees, and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
of Representatives (only with respect to the
unclassified report), a report on the intel-
ligence risks of returning the covered com-
pounds to Russian control.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by this section shall be submitted in classi-
fied and unclassified forms.
SEC. 703. ASSESSMENT OF THREAT FINANCE RE-
LATING TO RUSSIA.
(a) THREAT FINANCE DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘threat finance’’ means—
(1) the financing of cyber operations, glob-
al influence campaigns, intelligence service
activities, proliferation, terrorism, or
transnational crime and drug organizations;
(2) the methods and entities used to spend,
store, move, raise, conceal, or launder money
or value, on behalf of threat actors;
(3) sanctions evasion; and
(4) other forms of threat finance activity
domestically or internationally, as defined
by the President.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis,
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report containing an
assessment of Russian threat finance. The
assessment shall be based on intelligence
from all sources, including from the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence of the
Department of the Treasury.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) A summary of leading examples from
the 3-year period preceding the date of the
submittal of the report of threat finance ac-
tivities conducted by, for the benefit of, or at
the behest of—
(A) officials of the Government of Russia;
(B) persons subject to sanctions under any
provision of law imposing sanctions with re-
spect to Russia;
(C) Russian nationals subject to sanctions
under any other provision of law; or
(D) Russian oligarchs or organized crimi-
nals.
(2) An assessment with respect to any
trends or patterns in threat finance activi-
ties relating to Russia, including common
methods of conducting such activities and
global nodes of money laundering used by
Russian threat actors described in paragraph
(1) and associated entities.
(3) An assessment of any connections be-
tween Russian individuals involved in money
laundering and the Government of Russia.
(4) A summary of engagement and coordi-
nation with international partners on threat
finance relating to Russia, especially in Eu-
rope, including examples of such engagement
and coordination.
(5) An identification of any resource and
collection gaps.
(6) An identification of—
(A) entry points of money laundering by
Russian and associated entities into the
United States;
(B) any vulnerabilities within the United
States legal and financial system, including
specific sectors, which have been or could be
exploited in connection with Russian threat
finance activities; and
(C) the counterintelligence threat posed by
Russian money laundering and other forms
of threat finance, as well as the threat to the
United States financial system and United
States efforts to enforce sanctions and com-
bat organized crime.
(7) Any other matters the Director deter-
mines appropriate.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) may be submitted in
classified form.
SEC. 704. NOTIFICATION OF AN ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGN.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR NOTIFICATION.—The
Director of National Intelligence, in coopera-
tion with the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the head of any other
relevant agency, shall notify the congres-
sional leadership and the Chairman and Vice
Chairman or Ranking Member of each of the
appropriate congressional committees, and
of other relevant committees of jurisdiction,
each time the Director of National Intel-
ligence determines there is credible informa-
tion that a foreign power has, is, or will at-
tempt to employ a covert influence or active
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00164 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3795
June 18, 2019
measures campaign with regard to the mod-
ernization, employment, doctrine, or force
posture of the nuclear deterrent or missile
defense.
(c) CONTENT OF NOTIFICATION.—Each notifi-
cation required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude information concerning actions taken
by the United States to expose or halt an at-
tempt referred to in subsection (b).
SEC. 705. NOTIFICATION OF TRAVEL BY ACCRED-
ITED DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR
PERSONNEL OF THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION IN THE UNITED STATES.
In carrying out the advance notification
requirements set out in section 502 of the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (division N of Public Law 115–31; 131
Stat. 825; 22 U.S.C. 254a note), the Secretary
of State shall—
(1) ensure that the Russian Federation pro-
vides notification to the Secretary of State
at least 2 business days in advance of all
travel that is subject to such requirements
by accredited diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federation in the
United States, and take necessary action to
secure full compliance by Russian personnel
and address any noncompliance; and
(2) provide notice of travel described in
paragraph (1) to the Director of National In-
telligence and the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation within 1 hour of re-
ceiving notice of such travel.
SEC. 706. REPORT ON OUTREACH STRATEGY AD-
DRESSING THREATS FROM UNITED
STATES ADVERSARIES TO THE
UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGY SEC-
TOR.
(a) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(3) the Committee on Armed Services,
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Reform of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report detailing outreach by
the intelligence community and the Defense
Intelligence Enterprise to United States in-
dustrial, commercial, scientific, technical,
and academic communities on matters relat-
ing to the efforts of adversaries of the United
States to acquire critical United States
technology, intellectual property, and re-
search and development information.
(c) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A review of the current outreach efforts
of the intelligence community and the De-
fense Intelligence Enterprise described in
subsection (b), including the type of informa-
tion conveyed in the outreach.
(2) A determination of the appropriate ele-
ment of the intelligence community to lead
such outreach efforts.
(3) An assessment of potential methods for
improving the effectiveness of such out-
reach, including an assessment of the fol-
lowing:
(A) Those critical technologies, infrastruc-
ture, or related supply chains that are at
risk from the efforts of adversaries described
in subsection (b).
(B) The necessity and advisability of grant-
ing security clearances to company or com-
munity leadership, when necessary and ap-
propriate, to allow for tailored classified
briefings on specific targeted threats.
(C) The advisability of partnering with en-
tities of the Federal Government that are
not elements of the intelligence community
and relevant regulatory and industry groups
described in subsection (b), to convey key
messages across sectors targeted by United
States adversaries.
(D) Strategies to assist affected elements
of the communities described in subpara-
graph (C) in mitigating, deterring, and pro-
tecting against the broad range of threats
from the efforts of adversaries described in
subsection (b), with focus on producing infor-
mation that enables private entities to jus-
tify business decisions related to national se-
curity concerns.
(E) The advisability of the establishment
of a United States Government-wide task
force to coordinate outreach and activities
to combat the threats from efforts of adver-
saries described in subsection (b).
(F) Such other matters as the Director of
National Intelligence may consider nec-
essary.
(d) CONSULTATION ENCOURAGED.—In pre-
paring the report required by subsection (b),
the Director is encouraged to consult with
other government agencies, think tanks,
academia, representatives of the financial
industry, or such other entities as the Direc-
tor considers appropriate.
(e) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex as
necessary.
SEC. 707. REPORT ON IRANIAN SUPPORT OF
PROXY FORCES IN SYRIA AND LEB-
ANON.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
(2) ARMS OR RELATED MATERIAL.—The term
‘‘arms or related material’’ means—
(A) nuclear, biological, chemical, or radio-
logical weapons or materials or components
of such weapons;
(B) ballistic or cruise missile weapons or
materials or components of such weapons;
(C) destabilizing numbers and types of ad-
vanced conventional weapons;
(D) defense articles or defense services, as
those terms are defined in paragraphs (3) and
(4), respectively, of section 47 of the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794);
(E) defense information, as that term is de-
fined in section 644 of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403); or
(F) items designated by the President for
purposes of the United States Munitions List
under section 38(a)(1) of the Arms Export
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on Iranian support of
proxy forces in Syria and Lebanon and the
threat posed to Israel, other United States
regional allies, and other specified interests
of the United States as a result of such sup-
port.
(c) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The report
required under subsection (b) shall include
information relating to the following mat-
ters with respect to both the strategic and
tactical implications for the United States
and its allies:
(1) A description of arms or related mate-
riel transferred by Iran to Hizballah since
March 2011, including the number of such
arms or related materiel and whether such
transfer was by land, sea, or air, as well as fi-
nancial and additional technological capa-
bilities transferred by Iran to Hizballah.
(2) A description of Iranian and Iranian-
controlled personnel, including Hizballah,
Shiite militias, and Iran’s Revolutionary
Guard Corps forces, operating within Syria,
including the number and geographic dis-
tribution of such personnel operating within
30 kilometers of the Israeli borders with
Syria and Lebanon.
(3) An assessment of Hizballah’s oper-
ational lessons learned based on its recent
experiences in Syria.
(4) A description of any rocket-producing
facilities in Lebanon for nonstate actors, in-
cluding whether such facilities were assessed
to be built at the direction of Hizballah lead-
ership, Iranian leadership, or in consultation
between Iranian leadership and Hizballah
leadership.
(5) An analysis of the foreign and domestic
supply chains that significantly facilitate,
support, or otherwise aid Hizballah’s acquisi-
tion or development of missile production fa-
cilities, including the geographic distribu-
tion of such foreign and domestic supply
chains.
(6) An assessment of the provision of goods,
services, or technology transferred by Iran
or its affiliates to Hizballah to indigenously
manufacture or otherwise produce missiles.
(7) An identification of foreign persons
that are based on credible information, fa-
cilitating the transfer of significant finan-
cial support or arms or related materiel to
Hizballah.
(8) A description of the threat posed to
Israel and other United States allies in the
Middle East by the transfer of arms or re-
lated material or other support offered to
Hizballah and other proxies from Iran.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) shall be submitted in
unclassified form, but may include a classi-
fied annex.
SEC. 708. ANNUAL REPORT ON IRANIAN EXPENDI-
TURES SUPPORTING FOREIGN MILI-
TARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to Congress
a report describing Iranian expenditures in
the previous calendar year on military and
terrorist activities outside the country, in-
cluding each of the following:
(1) The amount spent in such calendar year
on activities by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, including activities providing
support for—
(A) Hizballah;
(B) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
(C) Hamas;
(D) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
(E) any other entity or country the Direc-
tor determines to be relevant.
(2) The amount spent in such calendar year
for ballistic missile research and testing or
other activities that the Director determines
are destabilizing to the Middle East region.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 709. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF COMMITTEE
TO COUNTER ACTIVE MEASURES
AND REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT
OF FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE
CENTER.
(a) SCOPE OF COMMITTEE TO COUNTER AC-
TIVE MEASURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 501 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 115–31; 50 U.S.C. 3001 note) is
amended—
(A) in subsections (a) through (h)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, the People’s Republic of
China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00165 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3796 June 18, 2019
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or
other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russian Federa-
tion’’ each place it appears; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, China, Iran, North
Korea, or other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russia’’
each place it appears; and
(B) in the section heading, by inserting ‘‘,
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, THE ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF IRAN, THE DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S
REPUBLIC OF KOREA, OR OTHER NATION STATE’’
after ‘‘RUSSIAN FEDERATION’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of such Act is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 501 and inserting the following new
item:
‘‘Sec. 501. Committee to counter active
measures by the Russian Fed-
eration, the People’s Republic
of China, the Islamic Republic
of Iran, the Democratic Peo-
ple’s Republic of Korea, and
other nation states to exert
covert influence over peoples
and governments.’’.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with such elements of the intel-
ligence community as the Director considers
relevant, shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the fea-
sibility and advisability of establishing a
center, to be known as the ‘‘Foreign Malign
Influence Response Center’’, that—
(A) is comprised of analysts from all appro-
priate elements of the intelligence commu-
nity, including elements with related diplo-
matic and law enforcement functions;
(B) has access to all intelligence and other
reporting acquired by the United States Gov-
ernment on foreign efforts to influence,
through overt and covert malign activities,
United States political processes and elec-
tions;
(C) provides comprehensive assessment,
and indications and warning, of such activi-
ties; and
(D) provides for enhanced dissemination of
such assessment to United States policy
makers.
(2) CONTENTS.—The Report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A discussion of the desirability of the
establishment of such center and any bar-
riers to such establishment.
(B) Such recommendations and other mat-
ters as the Director considers appropriate.
Subtitle B—Reports
SEC. 711. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO INSPEC-
TOR GENERAL STUDY.
Section 11001(d) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘AUDIT’’ and inserting ‘‘REVIEW’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’.
SEC. 712. REPORTS ON AUTHORITIES OF THE
CHIEF INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) HOMELAND SECURITY INTELLIGENCE EN-
TERPRISE.—The term ‘‘Homeland Security
Intelligence Enterprise’’ has the meaning
given such term in Department of Homeland
Security Instruction Number 264–01–001, or
successor authority.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis, shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the au-
thorities of the Under Secretary.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) An analysis of whether the Under Sec-
retary has the legal and policy authority
necessary to organize and lead the Homeland
Security Intelligence Enterprise, with re-
spect to intelligence, and, if not, a descrip-
tion of—
(A) the obstacles to exercising the authori-
ties of the Chief Intelligence Officer of the
Department and the Homeland Security In-
telligence Council, of which the Chief Intel-
ligence Officer is the chair; and
(B) the legal and policy changes necessary
to effectively coordinate, organize, and lead
intelligence activities of the Department of
Homeland Security.
(2) A description of the actions that the
Secretary has taken to address the inability
of the Under Secretary to require compo-
nents of the Department, other than the Of-
fice of Intelligence and Analysis of the De-
partment to—
(A) coordinate intelligence programs; and
(B) integrate and standardize intelligence
products produced by such other compo-
nents.
SEC. 713. REPORT ON CYBER EXCHANGE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a report on the potential establish-
ment of a fully voluntary exchange program
between elements of the intelligence commu-
nity and private technology companies under
which—
(1) an employee of an element of the intel-
ligence community with demonstrated ex-
pertise and work experience in cybersecurity
or related disciplines may elect to be tempo-
rarily detailed to a private technology com-
pany that has elected to receive the detailee;
and
(2) an employee of a private technology
company with demonstrated expertise and
work experience in cybersecurity or related
disciplines may elect to be temporarily de-
tailed to an element of the intelligence com-
munity that has elected to receive the
detailee.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the feasibility of es-
tablishing the exchange program described
in such subsection.
(2) Identification of any challenges in es-
tablishing the exchange program.
(3) An evaluation of the benefits to the in-
telligence community that would result
from the exchange program.
SEC. 714. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.
(a) REVIEW OF WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.—
The Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community, in consultation with the inspec-
tors general for the Central Intelligence
Agency, the National Security Agency, the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the
Defense Intelligence Agency, and the Na-
tional Reconnaissance Office, shall conduct a
review of the authorities, policies, investiga-
tory standards, and other practices and pro-
cedures relating to intelligence community
whistleblower matters, with respect to such
inspectors general.
(b) OBJECTIVE OF REVIEW.—The objective of
the review required under subsection (a) is to
identify any discrepancies, inconsistencies,
or other issues, which frustrate the timely
and effective reporting of intelligence com-
munity whistleblower matters to appro-
priate inspectors general and to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, and the fair
and expeditious investigation and resolution
of such matters.
(c) CONDUCT OF REVIEW.—The Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community shall
take such measures as the Inspector General
determines necessary in order to ensure that
the review required by subsection (a) is con-
ducted in an independent and objective fash-
ion.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a written report con-
taining the results of the review required
under subsection (a), along with rec-
ommendations to improve the timely and ef-
fective reporting of intelligence community
whistleblower matters to inspectors general
and to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees and the fair and expeditious inves-
tigation and resolution of such matters.
SEC. 715. REPORT ON ROLE OF DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE WITH RE-
SPECT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENTS.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community determined ap-
propriate by the Director, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the role of the Director in pre-
paring analytic materials in connection with
the evaluation by the Federal Government of
national security risks associated with po-
tential foreign investments into the United
States.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of the current process for
the provision of the analytic materials de-
scribed in subsection (a);
(2) an identification of the most significant
benefits and drawbacks of such process with
respect to the role of the Director, including
the sufficiency of resources and personnel to
prepare such materials; and
(3) recommendations to improve such proc-
ess.
SEC. 716. REPORT ON SURVEILLANCE BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS NETWORKS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, the Director of the Na-
tional Security Agency, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
report describing—
(1) any attempts known to the intelligence
community by foreign governments to ex-
ploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities in United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00166 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3797
June 18, 2019
States telecommunications networks (in-
cluding Signaling System No. 7) to target for
surveillance United States persons, includ-
ing employees of the Federal Government;
and
(2) any actions, as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, taken by the intelligence
community to protect agencies and per-
sonnel of the United States Government
from surveillance conducted by foreign gov-
ernments.
SEC. 717. BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENT RISKS.
(a) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INTERAGENCY
WORKING GROUP.—
(1) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall establish
an intelligence community interagency
working group to prepare the biennial re-
ports required by subsection (b).
(2) CHAIRPERSON.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall serve as the chairperson of
such interagency working group.
(3) MEMBERSHIP.—Such interagency work-
ing group shall be composed of representa-
tives of each element of the intelligence
community that the Director of National In-
telligence determines appropriate.
(b) BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN INVEST-
MENT RISKS.—
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
2 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives a report on foreign invest-
ment risks prepared by the interagency
working group established under subsection
(a).
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include identification,
analysis, and explanation of the following:
(A) Any current or projected major threats
to the national security of the United States
with respect to foreign investment.
(B) Any strategy used by a foreign country
that such interagency working group has
identified to be a country of special concern
to use foreign investment to target the ac-
quisition of critical technologies, critical
materials, or critical infrastructure.
(C) Any economic espionage efforts di-
rected at the United States by a foreign
country, particularly such a country of spe-
cial concern.
SEC. 718. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORT-
ING REQUIREMENT ON TRAVEL OF
FOREIGN DIPLOMATS.
Section 502(d)(2) of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 115–31) is amended by striking ‘‘the
number’’ and inserting ‘‘a best estimate’’.
SEC. 719. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGA-
TIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DISCLO-
SURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title XI of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 1105. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVES-
TIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DIS-
CLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFOR-
MATION.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED OFFICIAL.—The term ‘covered
official’ means—
‘‘(A) the heads of each element of the intel-
ligence community; and
‘‘(B) the inspectors general with oversight
responsibility for an element of the intel-
ligence community.
‘‘(2) INVESTIGATION.—The term ‘investiga-
tion’ means any inquiry, whether formal or
informal, into the existence of an unauthor-
ized public disclosure of classified informa-
tion.
‘‘(3) UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF CLASSI-
FIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unauthorized
disclosure of classified information’ means
any unauthorized disclosure of classified in-
formation to any recipient.
‘‘(4) UNAUTHORIZED PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation’ means the unauthorized disclosure
of classified information to a journalist or
media organization.
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT-
ING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, each covered official
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on investiga-
tions of unauthorized public disclosures of
classified information.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, with re-
spect to the preceding 6-month period, the
following:
‘‘(A) The number of investigations opened
by the covered official regarding an unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation.
‘‘(B) The number of investigations com-
pleted by the covered official regarding an
unauthorized public disclosure of classified
information.
‘‘(C) Of the number of such completed in-
vestigations identified under subparagraph
(B), the number referred to the Attorney
General for criminal investigation.
‘‘(c) DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REPORTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, the Assistant Attorney
General for National Security of the Depart-
ment of Justice, in consultation with the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on the
Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee
on the Judiciary of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the status of each referral
made to the Department of Justice from any
element of the intelligence community re-
garding an unauthorized disclosure of classi-
fied information made during the most re-
cent 365-day period or any referral that has
not yet been closed, regardless of the date
the referral was made.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, for each
referral covered by the report, at a min-
imum, the following:
‘‘(A) The date the referral was received.
‘‘(B) A statement indicating whether the
alleged unauthorized disclosure described in
the referral was substantiated by the Depart-
ment of Justice.
‘‘(C) A statement indicating the highest
level of classification of the information
that was revealed in the unauthorized disclo-
sure.
‘‘(D) A statement indicating whether an
open criminal investigation related to the
referral is active.
‘‘(E) A statement indicating whether any
criminal charges have been filed related to
the referral.
‘‘(F) A statement indicating whether the
Department of Justice has been able to at-
tribute the unauthorized disclosure to a par-
ticular entity or individual.
‘‘(d) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this section shall be submitted
in unclassified form, but may have a classi-
fied annex.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the first section of the National
Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 1104 the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 1105. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified informa-
tion.’’.
SEC. 720. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF
DESIGNATION OF COVERED INTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER AS PERSONA NON
GRATA.
(a) COVERED INTELLIGENCE OFFICER DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘covered
intelligence officer’’ means—
(1) a United States intelligence officer
serving in a post in a foreign country; or
(2) a known or suspected foreign intel-
ligence officer serving in a United States
post.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS.—Not later
than 72 hours after a covered intelligence of-
ficer is designated as a persona non grata,
the Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees, the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations of the Senate, and the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives a notification of that designation. Each
such notification shall include—
(1) the date of the designation;
(2) the basis for the designation; and
(3) a justification for the expulsion.
SEC. 721. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY PARTICIPATION IN
VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROC-
ESS OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS DOCUMENT.—The term
‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document’’ means the executive branch doc-
ument entitled ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities
Policy and Process’’ dated November 15, 2017.
(2) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROCESS.—
The term ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Process’’
means the interagency review of
vulnerabilities, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document or any successor document.
(3) VULNERABILITY.—The term ‘‘vulner-
ability’’ means a weakness in an information
system or its components (for example, sys-
tem security procedures, hardware design,
and internal controls) that could be ex-
ploited or could affect confidentiality, integ-
rity, or availability of information.
(b) REPORTS ON PROCESS AND CRITERIA
UNDER VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a written report describing—
(A) with respect to each element of the in-
telligence community—
(i) the title of the official or officials re-
sponsible for determining whether, pursuant
to criteria contained in the Vulnerabilities
Equities Policy and Process document or any
successor document, a vulnerability must be
submitted for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(ii) the process used by such element to
make such determination; and
(B) the roles or responsibilities of that ele-
ment during a review of a vulnerability sub-
mitted to the Vulnerabilities Equities Proc-
ess.
(2) CHANGES TO PROCESS OR CRITERIA.—Not
later than 30 days after any significant
change is made to the process and criteria
used by any element of the intelligence com-
munity for determining whether to submit a
vulnerability for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process, such ele-
ment shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report describing such
change.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00167 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3798 June 18, 2019
(3) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this subsection shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each calendar year, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a classi-
fied report containing, with respect to the
previous year—
(A) the number of vulnerabilities sub-
mitted for review under the Vulnerabilities
Equities Process;
(B) the number of vulnerabilities described
in subparagraph (A) disclosed to each vendor
responsible for correcting the vulnerability,
or to the public, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(C) the aggregate number, by category, of
the vulnerabilities excluded from review
under the Vulnerabilities Equities Process,
as described in paragraph 5.4 of the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document.
(2) UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an unclassified appendix that con-
tains—
(A) the aggregate number of
vulnerabilities disclosed to vendors or the
public pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equi-
ties Process; and
(B) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities
disclosed to vendors or the public pursuant
to the Vulnerabilities Equities Process
known to have been patched.
(3) NON-DUPLICATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may forgo submission of
an annual report required under this sub-
section for a calendar year, if the Director
notifies the intelligence committees in writ-
ing that, with respect to the same calendar
year, an annual report required by paragraph
4.3 of the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and
Process document already has been sub-
mitted to Congress, and such annual report
contains the information that would other-
wise be required to be included in an annual
report under this subsection.
SEC. 722. INSPECTORS GENERAL REPORTS ON
CLASSIFICATION.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than Oc-
tober 1, 2019, each Inspector General listed in
subsection (b) shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report that
includes, with respect to the department or
agency of the Inspector General, analyses of
the following:
(1) The accuracy of the application of clas-
sification and handling markers on a rep-
resentative sample of finished reports, in-
cluding such reports that are compart-
mented.
(2) Compliance with declassification proce-
dures.
(3) The effectiveness of processes for iden-
tifying topics of public or historical impor-
tance that merit prioritization for a declas-
sification review.
(b) INSPECTORS GENERAL LISTED.—The In-
spectors General listed in this subsection are
as follows:
(1) The Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community.
(2) The Inspector General of the Central In-
telligence Agency.
(3) The Inspector General of the National
Security Agency.
(4) The Inspector General of the Defense
Intelligence Agency.
(5) The Inspector General of the National
Reconnaissance Office.
(6) The Inspector General of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
SEC. 723. REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECU-
RITY AND NATIONAL SECURITY IM-
PLICATIONS AND BRIEFING ON
EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASE
AND PANDEMICS.
(a) REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECURITY
AND NATIONAL SECURITY IMPLICATIONS.—
(1) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
5 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report on
the implications of water insecurity on the
national security interest of the United
States, including consideration of social,
economic, agricultural, and environmental
factors.
(2) ASSESSMENT SCOPE AND FOCUS.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an assessment of water insecurity de-
scribed in such subsection with a global
scope, but focus on areas of the world—
(A) of strategic, economic, or humani-
tarian interest to the United States—
(i) that are, as of the date of the report, at
the greatest risk of instability, conflict,
human insecurity, or mass displacement; or
(ii) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to emerge and become
significant during the 5-year or the 20-year
period beginning on the date of the report;
and
(B) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to imperil the national
security interests of the United States or al-
lies of the United States.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In researching a report
required by paragraph (1), the Director shall
consult with—
(A) such stakeholders within the intel-
ligence community, the Department of De-
fense, and the Department of State as the
Director considers appropriate; and
(B) such additional Federal agencies and
persons in the private sector as the Director
considers appropriate.
(4) FORM.—Each report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(b) BRIEFING ON EMERGING INFECTIOUS DIS-
EASE AND PANDEMICS.—
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives; and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 120 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall pro-
vide to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a briefing on the anticipated geo-
political effects of emerging infectious dis-
ease (including deliberate, accidental, and
naturally occurring infectious disease
threats) and pandemics, and their implica-
tions on the national security of the United
States.
(3) CONTENT.—The briefing under para-
graph (2) shall include an assessment of—
(A) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of emerging
infectious diseases on the United States and
the international political and economic sys-
tem;
(B) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of a major
transnational pandemic on the United States
and the international political and economic
system; and
(C) contributing trends and factors to the
matters assessed under subparagraphs (A)
and (B).
(4) EXAMINATION OF RESPONSE CAPACITY.—In
examining the risks, costs, and impacts of
emerging infectious disease and a possible
transnational pandemic under paragraph (3),
the Director of National Intelligence shall
also examine in the briefing under paragraph
(2) the response capacity within affected
countries and the international system. In
considering response capacity, the Director
shall include—
(A) the ability of affected nations to effec-
tively detect and manage emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic;
(B) the role and capacity of international
organizations and nongovernmental organi-
zations to respond to emerging infectious
disease and a possible pandemic, and their
ability to coordinate with affected and donor
nations; and
(C) the effectiveness of current inter-
national frameworks, agreements, and
health systems to respond to emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic.
(5) FORM.—The briefing under paragraph (2)
may be classified.
SEC. 724. ANNUAL REPORT ON MEMORANDA OF
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN ELE-
MENTS OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY AND OTHER ENTITIES OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT RE-
GARDING SIGNIFICANT OPER-
ATIONAL ACTIVITIES OR POLICY.
Section 311 of the Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (50 U.S.C. 3313)
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Each year, concurrent
with the annual budget request submitted by
the President to Congress under section 1105
of title 31, United States Code, each head of
an element of the intelligence community
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report that lists each
memorandum of understanding or other
agreement regarding significant operational
activities or policy entered into during the
most recently completed fiscal year between
or among such element and any other entity
of the United States Government.
‘‘(b) PROVISION OF DOCUMENTS.—Each head
of an element of an intelligence community
who receives a request from the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate or the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives for a copy of
a memorandum of understanding or other
document listed in a report submitted by the
head under subsection (a) shall submit to
such committee the requested copy as soon
as practicable after receiving such request.’’.
SEC. 725. STUDY ON THE FEASIBILITY OF
ENCRYPTING UNCLASSIFIED
WIRELINE AND WIRELESS TELE-
PHONE CALLS.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall complete a study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline and wireless
telephone calls between personnel in the in-
telligence community.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date on which the Director completes the
study required by subsection (a), the Direc-
tor shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the Direc-
tor’s findings with respect to such study.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00168 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3799
June 18, 2019
SEC. 726. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR
ANNUAL REPORT ON HIRING AND
RETENTION OF MINORITY EMPLOY-
EES.
(a) EXPANSION OF PERIOD OF REPORT.—Sub-
section (a) of section 114 of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3050) is amended
by inserting ‘‘and the preceding 5 fiscal
years’’ after ‘‘fiscal year’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION ON DISAGGREGATION OF
DATA.—Subsection (b) of such section is
amended, in the matter before paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘disaggregated data by category
of covered person from each element of the
intelligence community’’ and inserting
‘‘data, disaggregated by category of covered
person and by element of the intelligence
community,’’.
SEC. 727. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY LOAN REPAYMENT AND RE-
LATED PROGRAMS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) there should be established, through the
issuing of an Intelligence Community Direc-
tive or otherwise, an intelligence commu-
nity-wide program for student loan repay-
ment, student loan forgiveness, financial
counseling, and related matters, for employ-
ees of the intelligence community;
(2) creating such a program would enhance
the ability of the elements of the intel-
ligence community to recruit, hire, and re-
tain highly qualified personnel, including
with respect to mission-critical and hard-to-
fill positions;
(3) such a program, including with respect
to eligibility requirements, should be de-
signed so as to maximize the ability of the
elements of the intelligence community to
recruit, hire, and retain highly qualified per-
sonnel, including with respect to mission-
critical and hard-to-fill positions; and
(4) to the extent possible, such a program
should be uniform throughout the intel-
ligence community and publicly promoted
by each element of the intelligence commu-
nity to both current employees of the ele-
ment as well as to prospective employees of
the element.
(b) REPORT ON POTENTIAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY-WIDE PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
operation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community and the heads of
any other appropriate department or agency
of the Federal Government, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on potentially establishing and car-
rying out an intelligence community-wide
program for student loan repayment, student
loan forgiveness, financial counseling, and
related matters, as described in subsection
(a).
(2) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
(A) A description of the financial resources
that the elements of the intelligence com-
munity would require to establish and ini-
tially carry out the program specified in
paragraph (1).
(B) A description of the practical steps to
establish and carry out such a program.
(C) The identification of any legislative ac-
tion the Director determines necessary to es-
tablish and carry out such a program.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ESTABLISHED PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) COVERED PROGRAMS DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘covered programs’’
means any loan repayment program, loan
forgiveness program, financial counseling
program, or similar program, established
pursuant to title X of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) or any
other provision of law that may be adminis-
tered or used by an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(2) ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not less
frequently than once each year, the Director
of National Intelligence shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on the covered programs. Each such re-
port shall include, with respect to the period
covered by the report, the following:
(A) The number of personnel from each ele-
ment of the intelligence community who
used each covered program.
(B) The total amount of funds each ele-
ment expended for each such program.
(C) A description of the efforts made by
each element to promote each covered pro-
gram pursuant to both the personnel of the
element of the intelligence community and
to prospective personnel.
SEC. 728. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.
(a) CORRECTING LONG-STANDING MATERIAL
WEAKNESSES.—Section 368 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub-
lic Law 110–259; 50 U.S.C. 3051 note) is hereby
repealed.
(b) INTERAGENCY THREAT ASSESSMENT AND
COORDINATION GROUP.—Section 210D of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k)
is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (c); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (d)
through (i) as subsections (c) through (h), re-
spectively; and
(3) in subsection (c), as so redesignated—
(A) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a period; and
(B) by striking paragraph (9).
(c) INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.—Section
8H of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (g); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i)
as subsections (g) and (h), respectively.
SEC. 729. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT ON
SENIOR EXECUTIVES OF THE OF-
FICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
(a) SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE POSITION
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Senior
Executive Service position’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 3132(a)(2) of title
5, United States Code, and includes any posi-
tion above the GS–15, step 10, level of the
General Schedule under section 5332 of such
title.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the number
of Senior Executive Service positions in the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
subsection (b) shall include the following:
(1) The number of required Senior Execu-
tive Service positions for the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence.
(2) Whether such requirements are reason-
ably based on the mission of the Office.
(3) A discussion of how the number of the
Senior Executive Service positions in the Of-
fice compare to the number of senior posi-
tions at comparable organizations.
(d) COOPERATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity any information requested by the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity that is necessary to carry out this sec-
tion by not later than 14 calendar days after
the date on which the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community makes such re-
quest.
SEC. 730. BRIEFING ON FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN-
VESTIGATION OFFERING PERMA-
NENT RESIDENCE TO SOURCES AND
COOPERATORS.
Not later than 30 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation shall pro-
vide to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a briefing on the ability of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation to offer, as an
inducement to assisting the Bureau, perma-
nent residence within the United States to
foreign individuals who are sources or co-
operators in counterintelligence or other na-
tional security-related investigations. The
briefing shall address the following:
(1) The extent to which the Bureau may
make such offers, whether independently or
in conjunction with other agencies and de-
partments of the United States Government,
including a discussion of the authorities pro-
vided by section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(S)), section 7 of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Act (50 U.S.C. 3508), and any
other provision of law under which the Bu-
reau may make such offers.
(2) An overview of the policies and oper-
ational practices of the Bureau with respect
to making such offers.
(3) The sufficiency of such policies and
practices with respect to inducing individ-
uals to cooperate with, serve as sources for
such investigations, or both.
(4) Whether the Director recommends any
legislative actions to improve such policies
and practices, particularly with respect to
the counterintelligence efforts of the Bu-
reau.
SEC. 731. INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF NORTH
KOREA REVENUE SOURCES.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Assistant
Secretary of State for Intelligence and Re-
search and the Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis, shall
produce an intelligence assessment of the
revenue sources of the North Korean regime.
Such assessment shall include revenue from
the following sources:
(1) Trade in coal, iron, and iron ore.
(2) The provision of fishing rights to North
Korean territorial waters.
(3) Trade in gold, titanium ore, vanadium
ore, copper, silver, nickel, zinc, or rare earth
minerals, and other stores of value.
(4) Trade in textiles.
(5) Sales of conventional defense articles
and services.
(6) Sales of controlled goods, ballistic mis-
siles, and other associated items.
(7) Other types of manufacturing for ex-
port, as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
(8) The exportation of workers from North
Korea in a manner intended to generate sig-
nificant revenue, directly or indirectly, for
use by the government of North Korea.
(9) The provision of nonhumanitarian
goods (such as food, medicine, and medical
devices) and services by other countries.
(10) The provision of services, including
banking and other support, including by en-
tities located in the Russian Federation,
China, and Iran.
(11) Online commercial activities of the
Government of North Korea, including on-
line gambling.
(12) Criminal activities, including cyber-
enabled crime and counterfeit goods.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
under subsection (a) shall include an identi-
fication of each of the following:
(1) The sources of North Korea’s funding.
(2) Financial and non-financial networks,
including supply chain management, trans-
portation, and facilitation, through which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00169 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3800 June 18, 2019
North Korea accesses the United States and
international financial systems and repatri-
ates and exports capital, goods, and services;
and
(3) the global financial institutions, money
services business, and payment systems that
assist North Korea with financial trans-
actions.
(c) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Upon com-
pletion of the assessment required under sub-
section (a), the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a copy of such assess-
ment.
SEC. 732. REPORT ON POSSIBLE EXPLOITATION
OF VIRTUAL CURRENCIES BY TER-
RORIST ACTORS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Stop Terrorist Use of Virtual
Currencies Act’’.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, shall submit to Congress a report on the
possible exploitation of virtual currencies by
terrorist actors. Such report shall include
the following elements:
(1) An assessment of the means and meth-
ods by which international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism use
virtual currencies.
(2) An assessment of the use by terrorist
organizations and State sponsors of ter-
rorism of virtual currencies compared to the
use by such organizations and States of
other forms of financing to support oper-
ations, including an assessment of the collec-
tion posture of the intelligence community
on the use of virtual currencies by such orga-
nizations and States.
(3) A description of any existing legal im-
pediments that inhibit or prevent the intel-
ligence community from collecting informa-
tion on or helping prevent the use of virtual
currencies by international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism and
an identification of any gaps in existing law
that could be exploited for illicit funding by
such organizations and States.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (b) shall be submitted in un-
classified form, but may include a classified
annex.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
SEC. 741. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION
BOARD.
Section 710(b) of the Public Interest De-
classification Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–567;
50 U.S.C. 3161 note) is amended by striking
‘‘December 31, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2028’’.
SEC. 742. SECURING ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources of
the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives.
(2) COVERED ENTITY.—The term ‘‘covered
entity’’ means an entity identified pursuant
to section 9(a) of Executive Order 13636 of
February 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 11742), relat-
ing to identification of critical infrastruc-
ture where a cybersecurity incident could
reasonably result in catastrophic regional or
national effects on public health or safety,
economic security, or national security.
(3) EXPLOIT.—The term ‘‘exploit’’ means a
software tool designed to take advantage of
a security vulnerability.
(4) INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEM.—The term
‘‘industrial control system’’ means an oper-
ational technology used to measure, control,
or manage industrial functions, and includes
supervisory control and data acquisition sys-
tems, distributed control systems, and pro-
grammable logic or embedded controllers.
(5) NATIONAL LABORATORY.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Laboratory’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
(6) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the pilot program established under sub-
section (b).
(7) SECRETARY.—Except as otherwise spe-
cifically provided, the term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Energy.
(8) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ means any at-
tribute of hardware, software, process, or
procedure that could enable or facilitate the
defeat of a security control.
(b) PILOT PROGRAM FOR SECURING ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish a 2-year control
systems implementation pilot program with-
in the National Laboratories for the pur-
poses of—
(1) partnering with covered entities in the
energy sector (including critical component
manufacturers in the supply chain) that vol-
untarily participate in the Program to iden-
tify new classes of security vulnerabilities of
the covered entities; and
(2) evaluating technology and standards, in
partnership with covered entities, to isolate
and defend industrial control systems of cov-
ered entities from security vulnerabilities
and exploits in the most critical systems of
the covered entities, including—
(A) analog and nondigital control systems;
(B) purpose-built control systems; and
(C) physical controls.
(c) WORKING GROUP TO EVALUATE PROGRAM
STANDARDS AND DEVELOP STRATEGY.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish a working group—
(A) to evaluate the technology and stand-
ards used in the Program under subsection
(b)(2); and
(B) to develop a national cyber-informed
engineering strategy to isolate and defend
covered entities from security
vulnerabilities and exploits in the most crit-
ical systems of the covered entities.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The working group es-
tablished under paragraph (1) shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 10 members, to be ap-
pointed by the Secretary, at least 1 member
of which shall represent each of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The Department of Energy.
(B) The energy industry, including electric
utilities and manufacturers recommended by
the Energy Sector coordinating councils.
(C)(i) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity; or
(ii) the Industrial Control Systems Cyber
Emergency Response Team.
(D) The North American Electric Reli-
ability Corporation.
(E) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(F)(i) The Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence; or
(ii) the intelligence community (as defined
in section 3 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)).
(G)(i) The Department of Defense; or
(ii) the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Homeland Security and America’s Security
Affairs.
(H) A State or regional energy agency.
(I) A national research body or academic
institution.
(J) The National Laboratories.
(d) REPORTS ON THE PROGRAM.—
(1) INTERIM REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date on which funds are first
disbursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an interim report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 2 years
after the date on which funds are first dis-
bursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a final report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(e) EXEMPTION FROM DISCLOSURE.—Infor-
mation shared by or with the Federal Gov-
ernment or a State, Tribal, or local govern-
ment under this section—
(1) shall be deemed to be voluntarily
shared information;
(2) shall be exempt from disclosure under
section 552 of title 5, United States Code, or
any provision of any State, Tribal, or local
freedom of information law, open govern-
ment law, open meetings law, open records
law, sunshine law, or similar law requiring
the disclosure of information or records; and
(3) shall be withheld from the public, with-
out discretion, under section 552(b)(3) of title
5, United States Code, and any provision of
any State, Tribal, or local law requiring the
disclosure of information or records.
(f) PROTECTION FROM LIABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A cause of action against
a covered entity for engaging in the vol-
untary activities authorized under sub-
section (b)—
(A) shall not lie or be maintained in any
court; and
(B) shall be promptly dismissed by the ap-
plicable court.
(2) VOLUNTARY ACTIVITIES.—Nothing in this
section subjects any covered entity to liabil-
ity for not engaging in the voluntary activi-
ties authorized under subsection (b).
(g) NO NEW REGULATORY AUTHORITY FOR
FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Nothing in this section
authorizes the Secretary or the head of any
other department or agency of the Federal
Government to issue new regulations.
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM.—There is authorized to
be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out sub-
section (b).
(2) WORKING GROUP AND REPORT.—There is
authorized to be appropriated $1,500,000 to
carry out subsections (c) and (d).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall re-
main available until expended.
SEC. 743. BUG BOUNTY PROGRAMS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(2) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘bug
bounty program’’ means a program under
which an approved computer security spe-
cialist or security researcher is temporarily
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00170 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3801
June 18, 2019
authorized to identify and report
vulnerabilities within the information sys-
tem of an agency or department of the
United States in exchange for compensation.
(3) INFORMATION SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘infor-
mation system’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 3502 of title 44, United States
Code.
(b) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM PLAN.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit to appropriate committees of
Congress a strategic plan for appropriate
agencies and departments of the United
States to implement bug bounty programs.
(2) CONTENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment of—
(i) the ‘‘Hack the Pentagon’’ pilot program
carried out by the Department of Defense in
2016 and subsequent bug bounty programs in
identifying and reporting vulnerabilities
within the information systems of the De-
partment of Defense; and
(ii) private sector bug bounty programs, in-
cluding such programs implemented by lead-
ing technology companies in the United
States; and
(B) recommendations on the feasibility of
initiating bug bounty programs at appro-
priate agencies and departments of the
United States.
SEC. 744. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RE-
LATING TO THE NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE UNIVERSITY.
(a) CIVILIAN FACULTY MEMBERS; EMPLOY-
MENT AND COMPENSATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1595(c) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(5) The National Intelligence Univer-
sity.’’.
(2) COMPENSATION PLAN.—The Secretary of
Defense shall provide each person employed
as a full-time professor, instructor, or lec-
turer at the National Intelligence University
on the date of the enactment of this Act an
opportunity to elect to be paid under the
compensation plan in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act
(with no reduction in pay) or under the au-
thority of section 1595 of title 10, United
States Code, as amended by paragraph (1).
(b) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—Section 2161 of such title is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—The Secretary of Defense may au-
thorize the President of the National Intel-
ligence University to accept qualifying re-
search grants in the same manner and to the
same degree as the President of the National
Defense University under section 2165(e) of
this title.’’.
(c) PILOT PROGRAM ON ADMISSION OF PRI-
VATE SECTOR CIVILIANS TO RECEIVE INSTRUC-
TION.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall commence
carrying out a pilot program to assess the
feasability and advisability of permitting el-
igible private sector employees who work in
organizations relevant to national security
to receive instruction at the National Intel-
ligence University.
(B) DURATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the pilot program during the 3-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the commence-
ment of the pilot program.
(C) EXISTING PROGRAM.—The Secretary
shall carry out the pilot program in a man-
ner that is consistent with section 2167 of
title 10, United States Code.
(D) NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS.—No more
than the equivalent of 35 full-time student
positions may be filled at any one time by
private sector employees enrolled under the
pilot program.
(E) DIPLOMAS AND DEGREES.—Upon success-
ful completion of the course of instruction in
which enrolled, any such private sector em-
ployee may be awarded an appropriate di-
ploma or degree under section 2161 of title 10,
United States Code.
(2) ELIGIBLE PRIVATE SECTOR EMPLOYEES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, an eligible private sector employee
is an individual employed by a private firm
that is engaged in providing to the Depart-
ment of Defense, the intelligence commu-
nity, or other Government departments or
agencies significant and substantial intel-
ligence or defense-related systems, products,
or services or whose work product is relevant
to national security policy or strategy.
(B) LIMITATION.—Under this subsection, a
private sector employee admitted for in-
struction at the National Intelligence Uni-
versity remains eligible for such instruction
only so long as that person remains em-
ployed by the same firm, holds appropriate
security clearances, and complies with any
other applicable security protocols.
(3) ANNUAL CERTIFICATION BY SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.—Under the pilot program, private
sector employees may receive instruction at
the National Intelligence University during
any academic year only if, before the start of
that academic year, the Secretary of Defense
determines, and certifies to the Committee
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
Committee on Armed Services of the House
of Representatives, that providing instruc-
tion to private sector employees under this
section during that year will further the na-
tional security interests of the United
States.
(4) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—The
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—
(A) the curriculum in which private sector
employees may be enrolled under the pilot
program is not readily available through
other schools and concentrates on national
security-relevant issues; and
(B) the course offerings at the National In-
telligence University are determined by the
needs of the Department of Defense and the
intelligence community.
(5) TUITION.—The President of the National
Intelligence University shall charge students
enrolled under the pilot program a rate
that—
(A) is at least the rate charged for employ-
ees of the United States outside the Depart-
ment of Defense, less infrastructure costs;
and
(B) considers the value to the school and
course of the private sector student.
(6) STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.—While receiv-
ing instruction at the National Intelligence
University, students enrolled under the pilot
program, to the extent practicable, are sub-
ject to the same regulations governing aca-
demic performance, attendance, norms of be-
havior, and enrollment as apply to Govern-
ment civilian employees receiving instruc-
tion at the university.
(7) USE OF FUNDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts received by the
National Intelligence University for instruc-
tion of students enrolled under the pilot pro-
gram shall be retained by the university to
defray the costs of such instruction.
(B) RECORDS.—The source, and the disposi-
tion, of such funds shall be specifically iden-
tified in records of the university.
(8) REPORTS.—
(A) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Each academic year
in which the pilot program is carried out,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate, and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
number of eligible private sector employees
participating in the pilot program.
(B) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the conclusion of the pilot
program, the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees, the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate,
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
findings of the Secretary with respect to the
pilot program. Such report shall include—
(i) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the feasability and advisability of
permitting eligible private sector employees
who work in organizations relevant to na-
tional security to receive instruction at the
National Intelligence University; and
(ii) a recommendation as to whether the
pilot program should be extended.
SEC. 745. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMEND-
MENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ACT OF 1947.
(a) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents at the beginning of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by inserting after the item relating to
section 2 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 3. Definitions.’’;
(2) by striking the item relating to section
107;
(3) by striking the item relating to section
113B and inserting the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 113B. Special pay authority for
science, technology, engineer-
ing, or mathematics posi-
tions.’’;
(4) by striking the items relating to sec-
tions 202, 203, 204, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213,
and 214; and
(5) by inserting after the item relating to
section 311 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 312. Repealing and saving provisions.’’.
(b) OTHER TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Such
Act is further amended—
(1) in section 102A—
(A) in subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) of
subsection (g), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (3) of subsection (v), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left;
(2) in section 106—
(A) by inserting ‘‘SEC. 106’’ before ‘‘(a)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of
subsection (b), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left;
(3) by striking section 107;
(4) in section 108(c), by striking ‘‘in both a
classified and an unclassified form’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to Congress in classified form, but
may include an unclassified summary’’;
(5) in section 112(c)(1), by striking ‘‘section
103(c)(7)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 102A(i)’’;
(6) by amending section 201 to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘SEC. 201. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
‘‘Except to the extent inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or other provisions
of law, the provisions of title 5, United
States Code, shall be applicable to the De-
partment of Defense.’’;
(7) in section 205, by redesignating sub-
sections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b),
respectively;
(8) in section 206, by striking ‘‘(a)’’;
(9) in section 207, by striking ‘‘(c)’’;
(10) in section 308(a), by striking ‘‘this
Act’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 2, 101, 102, 103,
and 303 of this Act’’;
(11) by redesignating section 411 as section
312;
(12) in section 503—
(A) in paragraph (5) of subsection (c)—
(i) by moving the margins of such para-
graph 2 ems to the left; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00171 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3802 June 18, 2019
(ii) by moving the margins of subparagraph
(B) of such paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left; and
(13) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) of section 504, by moving the
margins of such subparagraph 2 ems to the
right.
SEC. 746. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATED TO
THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
(a) NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINIS-
TRATION ACT.—Section 3233(b) of the Na-
tional Nuclear Security Administration Act
(50 U.S.C. 2423(b)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Administration’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Department’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘Intelligence and’’ after
‘‘the Office of’’.
(b) ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.—Section
4524(b)(2) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(50 U.S.C. 2674(b)(2)) is amended by inserting
‘‘Intelligence and’’ after ‘‘The Director of’’.
(c) NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947.—Para-
graph (2) of section 106(b) of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041(b)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ‘‘and
Counterintelligence’’ after ‘‘Office of Intel-
ligence’’;
(2) by striking subparagraph (F);
(3) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H),
and (I) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), re-
spectively; and
(4) in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated,
by realigning the margin of such subpara-
graph 2 ems to the left.
SEC. 747. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NOTIFICATION
OF CERTAIN DISCLOSURES OF CLAS-
SIFIED INFORMATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADVERSARY FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.—The
term ‘‘adversary foreign government’’ means
the government of any of the following for-
eign countries:
(A) North Korea.
(B) Iran.
(C) China.
(D) Russia.
(E) Cuba.
(2) COVERED CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The
term ‘‘covered classified information’’ means
classified information that was—
(A) collected by an element of the intel-
ligence community; or
(B) provided by the intelligence service or
military of a foreign country to an element
of the intelligence community.
(3) ESTABLISHED INTELLIGENCE CHANNELS.—
The term ‘‘established intelligence chan-
nels’’ means methods to exchange intel-
ligence to coordinate foreign intelligence re-
lationships, as established pursuant to law
by the Director of National Intelligence, the
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Director of the National Security Agen-
cy, or other head of an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(4) INDIVIDUAL IN THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.—
The term ‘‘individual in the executive
branch’’ means any officer or employee of
the executive branch, including individuals—
(A) occupying a position specified in arti-
cle II of the Constitution;
(B) appointed to a position by an indi-
vidual described in subparagraph (A); or
(C) serving in the civil service or the Sen-
ior Executive Service (or similar service for
senior executives of particular departments
or agencies).
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that section
502 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3092) requires elements of the intel-
ligence community to keep the congres-
sional intelligence committees ‘‘fully and
currently informed’’ about all ‘‘intelligence
activities’’ of the United States, and to ‘‘fur-
nish to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees any information or material con-
cerning intelligence activities * * * which is
requested by either of the congressional in-
telligence committees in order to carry out
its authorized responsibilities.’’.
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) section 502 of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3092), together with other
intelligence community authorities, obli-
gates an element of the intelligence commu-
nity to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees written notification, by
not later than 7 days after becoming aware,
that an individual in the executive branch
has disclosed covered classified information
to an official of an adversary foreign govern-
ment using methods other than established
intelligence channels; and
(2) each such notification should include—
(A) the date and place of the disclosure of
classified information covered by the notifi-
cation;
(B) a description of such classified infor-
mation;
(C) identification of the individual who
made such disclosure and the individual to
whom such disclosure was made; and
(D) a summary of the circumstances of
such disclosure.
SEC. 748. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONSIDER-
ATION OF ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES
WHEN CONSIDERING WHETHER OR
NOT TO PROVIDE VISAS TO FOREIGN
INDIVIDUALS TO BE ACCREDITED
TO A UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN
THE UNITED STATES.
It is the sense of the Congress that the
Secretary of State, in considering whether or
not to provide a visa to a foreign individual
to be accredited to a United Nations mission
in the United States, should consider—
(1) known and suspected intelligence ac-
tivities, espionage activities, including ac-
tivities constituting precursors to espionage,
carried out by the individual against the
United States, foreign allies of the United
States, or foreign partners of the United
States; and
(2) the status of an individual as a known
or suspected intelligence officer for a foreign
adversary.
SEC. 749. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON WIKILEAKS.
It is the sense of Congress that WikiLeaks
and the senior leadership of WikiLeaks re-
semble a nonstate hostile intelligence serv-
ice often abetted by state actors and should
be treated as such a service by the United
States.
SA 747. Mr. VAN HOLLEN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title XXVIII,
add the following:
SEC. 2806. INCREASE OF CAP FOR MINOR MILI-
TARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
FOR REVITALIZATION AND RECAPI-
TALIZATION OF LABORATORIES.
Section 2805(d) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘$6,000,000’’
each place it appears and inserting
‘‘$10,000,000’’.
SA 748. Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself
and Mr. ENZI) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to
the bill S. 1790, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1086. EXTENSION OF POSTAGE STAMP FOR
BREAST CANCER RESEARCH.
Section 414(h) of title 39, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2027’’.
SA 749. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title XVI, add
the following:
SEC. lll. LEVERAGING COMMERCIAL SAT-
ELLITE REMOTE SENSING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In acquiring geospatial-
intelligence, the Secretary of Defense shall
leverage, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, the capabilities of United States in-
dustry, including through the use of com-
mercial geospatial-intelligence services and
acquisition of commercial satellite imagery.
(b) OBTAINING FUTURE DATA.—The Sec-
retary, as part of an analysis of alternatives
for the future acquisition of Department of
Defense space systems for geospatial-intel-
ligence, shall—
(1) consider whether there is a suitable,
cost-effective, commercial capability avail-
able that can meet any or all of the Depart-
ment’s requirements;
(2) if a suitable, cost-effective, commercial
capability is available as described in para-
graph (1), determine whether it is in the na-
tional interest to develop a governmental
space system; and
(3) include, as part of the established ac-
quisition reporting requirements to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress, any deter-
mination made under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(c) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES
OF CONGRESS.—In this section, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) Committee on Armed Services and the
Select Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence of the House of Representatives.
SA 750. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
BOOKER (for himself and Mrs. BLACK-
BURN)) proposed an amendment to the
resolution S. Res. 235, designating June
12, 2019, as ‘‘Women Veterans Apprecia-
tion Day’’; as follows:
In the ninth whereas clause of the pre-
amble, in the matter preceding paragraph
(1), strike ‘‘designing’’ and insert ‘‘desig-
nating’’.
SA 751. Mr. PETERS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00172 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.090 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3803
June 18, 2019
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle G of title V, add the
following:
SEC. 589. INCLUSION ON THE VIETNAM VET-
ERANS MEMORIAL WALL OF THE
NAMES OF THE SOLDIERS WHO DIED
ON FLYING TIGER FLIGHT 739 ON
MARCH 16, 1962.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall authorize the
inclusion on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial
Wall in the District of Columbia of the
names of the 93 soldiers who died on Flying
Tiger Flight 739 when it crashed in the Pa-
cific Ocean en route to Vietnam on March 16,
1962.
(b) REQUIRED CONSULTATION.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall consult with the Sec-
retary of the Interior, the American Battle
Monuments Commission, and other applica-
ble authorities with respect to any adjust-
ments to the nomenclature and placement of
names pursuant to subsection (a) to address
any space limitations on the placement of
additional names on the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial Wall.
(c) NONAPPLICABILITY OF COMMEMORATIVE
WORKS ACT.—Chapter 89 of title 40, United
States Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Com-
memorative Works Act’’), shall not apply to
any activities carried out under subsection
(a) or (b).
SA 752. Mr. BURR submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 231(d)(2), after subparagraph (D),
insert the following:
(E) An assessment of risk when considering
foreign sources of foundational research of
biotechnology for application by the Depart-
ment.
SA 753. Mr. PERDUE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title III, add the
following:
SEC. 342. REPORT ON AMOUNTS AVAILABLE FOR
CONTRACTED SHIP MAINTENANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If amounts authorized to
be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for oper-
ation and maintenance for the Navy for pri-
vate contracted ship maintenance either re-
main available after September 30, 2020, or
are appropriated in the Other Procurement,
Navy account, not later than November 1 of
each fiscal year in which either of those con-
ditions exist, the Secretary of the Navy shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report on contracted ship maintenance
conducted by the Secretary during the im-
mediately preceding fiscal year.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following
with respect to contracted ship maintenance
included in the report:
(1) The name and hull number of the ship.
(2) The date of contract award.
(3) The period of performance for the con-
tract.
(4) The contract type.
(5) The amount of funding awarded for the
contract at the time of contract award.
(6) The maximum contract funding
amount.
(7) The projected and actual dates and
amounts of contract funding obligations and
expenditures.
(8) The name and location of the con-
tractor performing the maintenance.
(9) The scope of contracted work.
(10) A description of the effect on such
maintenance activity of funds described in
subsection (a) remaining available after Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
(11) A general assessment of and related
recommendations with respect to private
contracted ship maintenance funds remain-
ing available for more than one year.
(12) Such other matters as the Secretary of
the Navy considers appropriate.
SA 754. Mr. WICKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1086. POWERS OF THE NATIONAL AERO-
NAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRA-
TION IN PERFORMANCE OF FUNC-
TIONS.
Section 20113(b)(1) of title 51, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘425’’ and inserting ‘‘1325’’;
and
(2) by striking ‘‘not in excess of the rate of
basic pay payable for level III of the Execu-
tive Schedule’’ and inserting ‘‘at a rate that
does not exceed the per annum rate of salary
of the Vice President of the United States
under section 104 of title 3’’.
SA 755. Mr. WICKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the
following:
SEC. 1086. REPORT ON UNITED STATES CAPABILI-
TIES TO INSTALL, MAINTAIN, AND
REPAIR SUBMARINE CABLES.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than No-
vember 1, 2019, the Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall, in consultation of the Secretary
of Defense, submit to the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress a report on the capabili-
ties of the United States to install, main-
tain, and repair submarine cables, including
Government cables and commercial cables.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) A description and assessment of the
threats to submarine cables.
(2) A description of current United States
capabilities to install, maintain, and repair
submarine cables described in subsection (a),
including Government capabilities and pri-
vate-sector capabilities.
(3) A description and assessment of any
gaps in the capabilities referred to in para-
graph (2).
(4) A description and assessment of options
to address the gaps referred to in paragraph
(3), including the establishment of a program
for cable vessels modeled on the Maritime
Security Program.
(5) Such recommendations as the Secretary
of Transportation considers appropriate in
light of the matters set forth in the report,
including, if applicable, the appropriate sti-
pend (per vessel) for a program for cable ves-
sels modeled on the Maritime Security Pro-
gram
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate committees of
Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation and the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives.
(2) The term ‘‘cable vessel’’ means any ves-
sel as follows:
(A) A vessel that is classed as a cable ship
or cable vessel by, and designed in accord-
ance with the rules of, the American Bureau
of Shipping, or another classification society
accepted by the Secretary of Transportation.
(B) Any other vessel that is capable of in-
stalling, maintaining, and repairing sub-
marine cables.
(3) The term ‘‘Maritime Security Pro-
gram’’ means the program in connection
with the Maritime Security Fleet under
chapter 531 of title 46, United States Code.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 8 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, June 18, 2019, at 10:30 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing on the following
nominations: Thomas Peter Feddo, of
Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Investment Security,
Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assist-
ant Secretary of Commerce and Direc-
tor General of the United States and
Foreign Commercial Service, Michelle
Bowman, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, Paul Shmotolokha, of
Washington, to be First Vice President
of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States, and Allison Herren Lee,
of Colorado, to be a Member of the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00173 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.083 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3804 June 18, 2019
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, June 18, 2019, at 9:30 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, June 18, 2019, at
10:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Tuesday, June 18,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS
The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, June 18, 2019, 1t
9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
June 18, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a
closed hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SECURITY
The Subcommittee on Security of the
Committee on Commerce is authorized
to meet during the session of the Sen-
ate on Tuesday, June 18, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON THE CONSTITUTION
The Subcommittee on the Constitu-
tion of the Committee on the Judiciary
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Tuesday, June 18,
2019, at a time to be determined, to
conduct a hearing.
f
REQUESTING THE SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR TO AUTHORIZE
UNIQUE AND ONE-TIME AR-
RANGEMENTS FOR DISPLAYS ON
THE NATIONAL MALL AND THE
WASHINGTON MONUMENT DUR-
ING THE PERIOD BEGINNING ON
JULY 16, 2019 AND ENDING ON
JULY 20, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.J. Res. 60, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the joint resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A joint resolution (H.J. Res. 60) requesting
the Secretary of the Interior to authorize
unique and one-time arrangements for dis-
plays on the National Mall and the Wash-
ington Monument during the period begin-
ning on July 16, 2019 and ending on July 20,
2019.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the joint resolu-
tion.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the joint
resolution be considered read a third
time and passed, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 60)
was ordered to a third reading, was
read the third time, and passed.
f
WOMEN VETERANS APPRECIATION
DAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. Res. 235 and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 235) designating June
12, 2019, as ‘‘Women Veterans Appreciation
Day.’’
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I further ask that the resolution be
agreed to; the Booker amendment to
the preamble at the desk be agreed to;
the preamble, as amended, be agreed
to; and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 235) was
agreed to.
The amendment (No. 750) was agreed
to, as follows:
(Purpose: To amend the preamble)
In the ninth whereas clause of the pre-
amble, in the matter preceding paragraph
(1), strike ‘‘designing’’ and insert ‘‘desig-
nating’’.
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
The resolution with its preamble, as
amended, reads as follows:
S. RES. 235
Whereas, throughout all periods of the his-
tory of the United States, women have
proudly served the United States to secure
and preserve freedom and liberty for—
(1) the people of the United States; and
(2) the allies of the United States;
Whereas women have formally been a part
of the United States Armed Forces since the
establishment of the Army Nurse Corps in
1901, but have informally served since the in-
ception of the United States military;
Whereas women have served honorably and
with valor, including—
(1) disguised as male soldiers during the
American Revolution and the Civil War;
(2) as nurses during World War I and World
War II; and
(3) as combat helicopter pilots in Afghani-
stan;
Whereas, as of May 2019, women constitute
approximately 15 percent of United States
Armed Forces personnel on active duty, in-
cluding—
(1) nearly 19 percent of active duty per-
sonnel in the Air Force;
(2) 18 percent of active duty personnel in
the Navy;
(3) 14 percent of active duty personnel in
the Army;
(4) 8 percent of active duty personnel in the
Marine Corps; and
(5) nearly 15 percent of active duty per-
sonnel in the Coast Guard;
Whereas, as of May 2019, women constitute
nearly 21 percent of personnel in the Na-
tional Guard and Reserves;
Whereas by 2020—
(1) the population of women veterans is ex-
pected to reach 2,000,000, which represents an
exponential increase from 1,100,000 in 1980;
and
(2) women veterans are expected to con-
stitute more than 10 percent of the total vet-
eran population;
Whereas the United States is proud of and
appreciates the service of all women vet-
erans who have demonstrated great skill,
sacrifice, and commitment to defending the
principles upon which the United States was
founded and which the United States con-
tinues to uphold;
Whereas women veterans have unique sto-
ries and should be encouraged to share their
recollections through the Veterans History
Project, which has worked since 2000 to col-
lect and share the personal accounts of war-
time veterans in the United States; and
Whereas, by designating June 12, 2019, as
‘‘Women Veterans Appreciation Day’’, the
Senate can—
(1) highlight the growing presence of
women in the Armed Forces and the Na-
tional Guard; and
(2) pay respect to women veterans for their
dutiful military service: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate designates June
12, 2019, as ‘‘Women Veterans Appreciation
Day’’ to recognize the service and sacrifices
of women veterans who have served valiantly
on behalf of the United States.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, JUNE
19, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 9:30 a.m., Wednesday,
June 19; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Kacsmaryk nomination
under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:29 p.m., adjourned until Wednes-
day, June 18, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00174 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.086 S18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3805
June 18, 2019
FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT
BOARD FOR PUERTO RICO
ANDREW GEORGE BIGGS, OF OREGON, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT
BOARD FOR PUERTO RICO FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE
TERM EXPIRING AUGUST 30, 2019. (NEW POSITION)
JOSE BALDOMERO CARRION, OF PUERTO RICO, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGE-
MENT BOARD FOR PUERTO RICO FOR THE REMAINDER OF
THE TERM EXPIRING AUGUST 30, 2019. (NEW POSITION)
CARLOS M. GARCIA, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGE-
MENT BOARD FOR PUERTO RICO FOR THE REMAINDER OF
THE TERM EXPIRING AUGUST 30, 2019. (NEW POSITION)
ARTHUR J. GONZALEZ, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT
BOARD FOR PUERTO RICO FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE
TERM EXPIRING AUGUST 30, 2019. (NEW POSITION)
JOSE R. GONZALEZ, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT BOARD
FOR PUERTO RICO FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM
EXPIRING AUGUST 30, 2019. (NEW POSITION)
ANA MATOSANTOS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT
BOARD FOR PUERTO RICO FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE
TERM EXPIRING AUGUST 30, 2019. (NEW POSITION)
DAVID SKEEL, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT BOARD
FOR PUERTO RICO FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM
EXPIRING AUGUST 30, 2019. (NEW POSITION)
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. BRYAN P. FENTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. RONALD J. PLACE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. ROBERT T. WOOLDRIDGE II
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS COMMANDER, MARINE FORCES RESERVE, AND AP-
POINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES MARINE CORPS RESERVE WHILE ASSIGNED TO A
POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601 AND 8084:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. DAVID G. BELLON
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
ROBERT K. RANKIN, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
JUDY A. RATTAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
ROBERT B. GOSS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
GAYLAN A. GRAY
JORDAN H. LINDEKE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE
GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be colonel
HANS ERIC ANKER
WENDY SUZANNE ARMIJO
NATHAN PAUL AYSTA
ELIZABETH A. BAKER
GREGORY E. BARASCH
MICHAEL D. BELARDO
BRIAN A. BERGREN
JONATHAN LEE BINGHAM
BRIAN R. BODENMAN
TERRY JOHN BRENNAN
TYLER D. BUCKLEY
THOMAS EDWARD BURKE
MATTHEW CALABRO
ANDREW J. CAMACHO
JONATHAN J. CARTWRIGHT
ROBIN MICHELE CAVANAUGH
ANDREW JOHN CHONTOS
KEVIN T. CLIFFORD
PATRIC DAVID COGGIN
ADAM COLOMBO
RUBEN COLON
DERICK VONZELL COOPER
CHRISTIAN PATRICK CORNETTE
TIMOTHY GUY CROWE
TROY C. CULLEN
TODD DAVID DESHLER
MICHAEL LEE DONAT
DREW E. DOUGHERTY
DAVID S. EVERETT
DAVID C. FLYNN
BRIAN KENNETH FONTAINE
DENNIS ALBERT FOURNIER
DOUGLAS E. FRANK
CLIFFORD ANTHONY FRANKLIN
MICHAEL ADAM FREIMANN
THOMAS ALLAN FUNK
THEODORE WILLIAM GEASLEY
ROBERT COFFMAN GELLNER
LINDA M. GOODSON
BYRON DAVID GREENE
LAURA LORRAINE HACKWORTH
KRISTIN KATHRYN HALEY
JACOB L. HAMMONS
STEVEN M. HEFFERON
COREY A. HERMESCH
JASON A. HOLBROOK
SCOTT P. HOYLE
ROBERT A. HUELSMAN
RICHARD D. HUNT
ANDREW B. HYATT
ANDREW P. JACOB
AUDREY S. KAWANISHI
KENT A. KAZMAIER
MICHAEL PATRICK KENNEY
JEFFREY WILSON KERNEKLIAN
RUSSELL WADE KOHL
CAROL JEAN KOHTZ
MICHAEL DAVID KOMOROUS
STACY FRANCIS KOOISTRA
KALLIE D. KUEHL
DAVID R. LANDS
LYNN MARY LEE
CHRISTINA M. LOCK
NICHOLAS JOSEPH LOTITO II
DAVID RICHARD MAGNUSON
ANDREW J. MALOUSEK
LARRY D. MARA
TIMOTHY THOMAS MARTIN
BERRY L. MCCORMICK
TERESA L. MCDONOUGH
ERIC CHARLES MCKISSICK
RICHARD FRANCIS MCMULLEN
ADRIAN DENNIS MEYER
PETER G. MICHAELSON
TODD DONALD MILLER
WILLIAM D. MILLER
JEDD MESSAHEL MILOUD
JOSEPH MICHAEL MONASTRA
SCOTT A. MORRIS
JONATHAN DAVID MUMME
CHRISTINE ELIZABETH MUNCH
JOHN EDWARD MURPHY
ROBERT S. NOREN
PATRICK OBRIEN
SCOTT E. OLECH
ROBERT STEVEN PELLEY
JOSEPH P. PIAZZA
BRENT JON POST
ILEANA RAMIREZ–PEREZ
JARROD ROSS RAMSEY
STEVEN HOWARD RATHMELL
ERIC M. RAWLINGS
TIMOTHY JOSEPH REYNOLDS
TIMOTHY BENJAMIN REZAC
STEVEN BERT RICE
BRYAN LESTER RICKS
BRUCE ALLAN ROGERS
ADAM EMERSON ROGGE
JOSEPH FRANCIS ROOS
JEFFREY A. ROSENBLATT
JAMES MARCELLO ROSSI
MARK A. RUEHTER
JOSEPH HECTOR RUIZ
BRADLEY DAVID RUTTMAN
JEREMY L. SCHAAD
TAD J. SCHAUER
CHRISTOPHER T. SCHNEIDER
FRANCIS T. G. SHEN
JOHN H. SINGLETON, JR.
SANDY MICHELL SMITH
SCOTT W. SMITH
JEANINE A. SOMMERVILLE
STEVEN JOHN SOTO
ROBERT L. SOUTHERLAND
TODD H. STANDIFER
DONNA M. STEWART
SARA ANN STIGLER
SETH D. STORMS
HOWARD L. SULS
DANIEL SUSICH
JAMES M. SWANIK
ROBERT EDWARD SWERTFAGER
JEFFERSON ALAN TAYLOR
KRISTIAN S. THIELE
DEANE EDWARD THOMEY
KURT DAVID TONGREN
ANDREW T. WAHL
JON M. WAHLGREN
TRAVIS D. WALTERS
JAMES MICHAEL WEBER
MARK WILLIAM WRIGHT
JOSEPH WYATT
MARIO JOHN ZOCCHI
BRIAN DOUGLAS ZULLO
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
LARRY D. CROWDER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
JASON B. BARIATTI
MICHAEL G. BRITT II
ALEXANDER R. EVERSOLL
MARK A. PATTERSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
ROGER M. LEWIS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C. SECTION 624:
To be major
THELMA D. CUMMINGS
KYUNGKUN LEE
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
CHRISTOPHER M. JOHNSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
BENNY P. VOLKMANN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
ERIC A. POLONSKY
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
TIMOTHY K. GALLAGHER, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
KYLE A. UGONE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
SEAN M. WILLIAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
JEFFERY G. PIOSZAK
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
CHRISTOPHER D. MCLIN
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate June 18, 2019:
MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
SEAN CAIRNCROSS, OF MINNESOTA, TO BE CHIEF EXEC-
UTIVE OFFICER, MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORA-
TION.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00175 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A18JN6.001 S18JNPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E781
June 18, 2019
ANNUAL OBSERVANCE OF
JUNETEENTH
HON. KATIE HILL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Ms. HILL of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the WOW Flower
Project participating in the annual observance
of Juneteenth.
Whereas the staff and volunteers of WOW
Flower Project have agreed to devote their
time, resources and energy to this united effort
to bring attention to this important day of cele-
bration.
Whereas Juneteenth is an annual observ-
ance on June 19th to remember when Union
soldiers enforced the Emancipation Proclama-
tion and freed all remaining enslaved people
in Texas on June 19, 1865. This day is an op-
portunity for people to celebrate freedom and
equal rights in the United States.
Whereas WOW Flower Project will hold a
public Juneteenth Celebration with the goals
of bringing our neighbors together to remem-
ber the millions of African Americans who suf-
fered the evils of slavery and celebrate the
community’s commitment to working toward a
more fair and just society. Together, we honor
the unbreakable spirit and countless contribu-
tions of generations of African Americans to
the story of American greatness.
Whereas WOW Flower Project leads us
today and every day in recommitting ourselves
to defending the self-evident truth, boldly de-
clared by our Founding Fathers, that all peo-
ple are created equal.
On this day, we rise to declare June 19th,
National Juneteenth Awareness Day. Dating
back to 1865, Juneteenth is the oldest known
celebration commemorating the ending of
slavery in the United States. We are fortunate
to have passionate, forward-thinking, dedi-
cated organizations like the WOW Flower
Project who work tirelessly to enact change
and educate our community.
Therefore, let it be proclaimed the Antelope
Valley declares that every 19th of June is the
official Remembrance of Juneteenth.
f
TRIBUTE FOR ELVIS DURAN AND
ALEX CARR
HON. MAX ROSE
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to ask all of my colleagues to join
me in honoring two outstanding individuals
who share an unquestionable commitment to
improving the lives of Staten Islanders and to
supporting our borough’s LGBTQ commu-
nity—Z100’s Elvis Duran, and his fiancé, the
Staten Island Zoo’s own Alex Carr.
If there’s one thing Staten Islanders know all
too well, it’s sitting in traffic in the morning lis-
tening to the radio. The work that Elvis Duran
does every day to make that commute just a
little less grueling deserves recognition all by
itself. But Elvis is so much more than a New
York City radio legend. Whether he is contrib-
uting to the Robin Hood Foundation which
fights poverty in New York City, supporting the
LGBTQ community through his work with
GLAAD and The Trevor Project, or generously
supporting local Staten Island causes with his
fiancé, Alex, Mr. Duran has continually shown
a commitment to helping those in need.
Our borough is known for its sense of com-
munity and through it, the people who make it
one of the best places to raise a family. It is
that commitment to community and supporting
our borough in ways, both big and small, that
Alex has exemplified. When there is someone
struggling—whether a close friend or strang-
er—there’s a good chance Alex will be there
to help in some capacity. It’s who he is, and
Staten Island has been made better because
of his efforts.
And so it should be no surprise that when
Staten Island’s own LGBTQ community need-
ed help with a fundraiser, Elvis and his fiancé
Alex went above and beyond to help out. They
offered to do a dollar for dollar match of dona-
tions to the Staten Island Pride Center, raised
awareness of the Pride Center’s work on so-
cial media, and helped raise over $25,000.
Their philanthropic efforts have impacted
many lives, but there is nothing more powerful
than individuals with large platforms sharing
their stories and helping others feel accepted.
Elvis and Alex have opened their lives to Stat-
en Island, the City, and the country whether
it’s through the Morning Show, the Staten Is-
land Zoo, or just the extraordinary acts of
kindness they have demonstrated time and
time again.
Staten Island is a place where we look out
for each other and where we never hesitate to
help those in need. Few people embody that
more than Elvis Duran and Alex Carr. For that
reason, the Pride Center of Staten Island will
be honoring Alex and Elvis at its celebration
commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the
Stonewall Riots on June 21, 2019.
Madam Speaker, today I ask my colleagues
in the House to join me in recognizing Alex as
everything a Staten Islander ought to be, Elvis
Duran as an honorary Staten Islander and in
thanking them for their many years of selfless
and compassionate service to Staten Island,
and to all of New York City.
f
SONIA RAMIREZ
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today as a member of the International Broth-
erhood of Electric Workers (IBEW), a member
organization of the North American Building
Trades Union (NABTU), to honor Sonia Rami-
rez, who has dedicated six years to the
NABTU and millions of working men and
women across America.
Sonia Ramirez is native of California’s 26th
Congressional District and a graduate of Occi-
dental University in Los Angeles.
From 1995 to 1996, Sonia participated in
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institu-
tion’s graduate program and worked for the
Democratic National Committee (DNC) in the
Office of Latino Outreach in Washington, D.C.
Afterward, she served on the DNC’s Board of
Directors.
Sonia began serving working families di-
rectly as a legislative representative for the
American Federation of Labor and Congress
of Industrial Organizations (AFL–CIO). In this
position, Sonia fought passionately for eco-
nomic and social justice.
In 2012, Sonia was named the Director of
Government Affairs of NABTU after serving as
Deputy Director for two years prior. In this po-
sition, Sonia Ramirez advocated for more jobs
and better working conditions for her fellow
Americans day in and day out.
Now, Sonia will be moving on to serve as
the Wage and Hour Division Administrator for
Oregon’s Bureau of Labor and Industries. She
will be the first woman and person of color to
hold this esteemed position, and it is no sur-
prise to those of us that know Sonia that she
will be breaking barriers.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
celebrating Sonia Ramirez’s exceptional ca-
reer, as well as her dedication to the national
labor movement. On behalf of my union broth-
ers and sisters across the country, I recognize
the tremendous work accomplished by Sonia
Ramirez.
f
RECOGNIZING MONTANA YOUTH
CHALLENGE ACADEMY OF DILLON
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the staff, instructors, and men-
tors of the Montana Youth ChalleNGe Acad-
emy in Dillon for helping thousands of at-risk
youth turn around their lives toward a more
promising, productive future.
Celebrating its 20th year, the Montana
Youth ChalleNGe Academy (MYCA) provides
young Montanans from 16 to 18 the oppor-
tunity to develop academically and hone work-
force and social skills in a secure, structured
setting.
The 22-week program, sponsored by the
Montana National Guard and the State of
Montana, focuses on academics, responsi-
bility, service, leadership, and health. Nearly
3,000 students have graduated from MYCA
since 1999, with volunteer mentors supporting
and guiding them following graduation.
Every cadet in the academy has a story of
personal struggle and perseverance. Many
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18JN8.001 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E782 June 18, 2019
have faced circumstances that put them at risk
of not completing high school. One such cadet
is 17-year-old Crystal Whitedirt.
Placed in foster care as a child, Crystal
struggled with learning disabilities. As a high
school junior, she was informed she was un-
likely to meet graduation requirements. Crystal
decided to enter MYCA.
Though her first attempt at graduating
MYCA was unsuccessful, she reentered the
academy eleven months later. Through perse-
verance and the assistance provided by
MYCA, Crystal graduated MYCA on June 15
as part of the academy’s 40th graduating
class.
‘‘People always told me it would be tough,
but to push through and do things because
you’ll have your family right beside you,’’ Crys-
tal said. ‘‘I never knew what they meant. I
never had that, but now I do. I never thought
my family would be so big.’’
Crystal plans on joining the Job Corps pro-
gram. She hopes to someday enter the mili-
tary and become a role model for her commu-
nity.
Madam Speaker, for twenty years of helping
Montana’s at-risk youth develop the skills and
abilities they need to overcome challenges
and turn their lives around, I recognize the
staff, instructors, and mentors of the Montana
Youth ChalleNGe Academy for their spirit of
Montana.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF AGNES
ZAIONTZ
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life of Agnes
Zaiontz, who passed away on Wednesday,
May 29th at the age of 77.
Agnes, a resident of Columbus, Mississippi,
was a long-time employee at the Tennessee
Tombigbee Waterway Authority, serving as of-
fice manager. During her time with the Tenn-
Tom Waterway, she assisted with the creation
of a traveling Smithsonian exhibit at the Tenn-
Tom Waterway Museum. The Waterway dedi-
cated the exhibit to her naming it ‘‘The Agnes
Zaiontz Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway
Transportation Museum.’’ When she was not
at the office, Agnes was an active member of
Annunciation Catholic Church.
Left to cherish her memory is her husband,
Francis Zaiontz of Columbus, MS; her sons—
Bobby Zaiontz and Frank Zaiontz, Jr.; her
daughter—Cindy DeFelice of Olive Branch,
MS; grandchildren—Patricia DeFelice, Emily
DeFelice and Maddie Zaiontz; as well as her
sisters—Margie Walker, and Darcus Good-
man.
Agnes’s life was one of service, grace, love
for her family, and community. She will be
greatly missed by all who she encountered.
RECOGNIZING LUDINGTON
PUMPED STORAGE CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO WEST MICHIGAN
HON. BILL HUIZENGA
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to recognize the Ludington Pumped Stor-
age plant in Mason County for 46 years of
service. Owned by Consumers Energy and
DTE Energy, Ludington Pumped Storage re-
cently had its construction and operating li-
cense period extended for 50 years.
Beginning operations on the shores of Lake
Michigan in 1973, Ludington Pumped Storage
is affectionately known as ‘‘the big battery.’’
This engineering marvel is a critical part of
Michigan’s energy infrastructure, ensuring our
residents can access safe, affordable, and reli-
able energy. It also serves as an innovative
example of what can be done to harness en-
ergy in my home state.
Here’s how the facility operates: When elec-
tricity is cheaper at night, the plant pumps
water from Lake Michigan up a bluff to the
plant’s 27 billion-gallon reservoir, creating an
on-demand power source. When demand dic-
tates, the gates are simply opened, enabling
water to rush downhill and turn the plant’s
powerful turbines to generate electricity.
Ludington Pumped Storage has the ability to
produce 1,872 megawatts of electricity, which
is enough energy to provide power to 1.4 mil-
lion Michigan residents.
With the Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission recently approving a 50-year exten-
sion of the plant’s construction and operating
license, this important source of energy will
continue to support Michigan residents until
June 30, 2069.
‘‘The Big Battery’s’’ nearly half-century of
service is a testament to the dedication of the
men and women who helped build it as well
as to those who have kept watch over the
years. As our nation confronts energy chal-
lenges going forward, I hope we remember
Ludington Pumped Storage and the example it
has provided in supporting Michigan’s energy
needs.
Congratulations to the team at Ludington
Pumped Storage on this great achievement. I
look forward to a new chapter for this modern
marvel in service to the people of Michigan.
f
HONORING THE PARTNERSHIP BE-
TWEEN THE SAN ANGELO MU-
SEUM OF FINE ARTS AND THE
EUROPEAN UNION AMBASSADOR
HON. K. MICHAEL CONAWAY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the unveiling of over thirty
pieces of art from the San Angelo Museum of
Fine Arts in the European Union Ambas-
sador’s Residence in Washington, D.C. on
June 20, 2019.
These works date back to the 1920’s and
represent a variety of creative approaches and
artistic styles. The ceramic pieces, by re-
nowned artists from all over the world, range
from functional to sculptural to abstract, and
the paintings and sculptures by Texas artists
are hallmark examples of movements such as
surrealism, American regionalism, minimalism,
and impressionism.
Texas has a rich, multicultural history that is
well-represented through this collection. I am
incredibly honored to have these pieces from
Texas’ 11th District on display in the Ambas-
sador’s home where they will be viewed and
appreciated by individuals from across the
world. It is a historic feat for art from an Amer-
ican museum to be displayed in a foreign dip-
lomatic residence, and I am proud to have
San Angelo and Texan artists represented on
the world stage in this way.
The artists from Texas who will have their
art displayed are: Randy Brodnax, Vorakit
Chinookoswong, Fidencio Duran, Altha Leona
Edge, Juan Granados, W. Frederick Jarvis,
Chapman Kelley, Lebeth Lammers, Ben Liv-
ingston, Otis Lumpkin, Patricia Nix, and one of
San Angelo’s very own world-renowned artist,
René Alvarado, who also assisted with the
transport and install of the art.
I would like to recognize Ambassador
Stavros Lambrinidis, the European Ambas-
sador to the United States, for his generosity
in displaying these works and opening his
home to Texas art and culture. Additionally, I
want to thank his wife, Mrs. Phoebe
Kapouano, for her efforts in personally select-
ing the works to be displayed. This exhibition
is a testament to the benevolence of Ambas-
sador Lambrinidis, the excellent leadership of
the museum, and the commitment of the San
Angelo community to strive for excellence.
f
COMMEMORATING THE FIFTIETH
ANNIVERSARY OF 171 CEDAR
ARTS CENTER
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of 171
Cedar Arts Center in Corning, New York.
171 Cedar Arts Center is an Associate Insti-
tutional Member of the National Guild of Com-
munity Schools of the Arts. As a non-profit
multi-arts community center, they present per-
formances in dance and music as well as ex-
hibitions of fine arts and crafts in the commu-
nity. The Center offers educational programs
for people of all ages and skill levels, pro-
viding the community opportunities to share in
the joy of the arts.
171 Cedar Arts Center gets its name from
171 Cedar Street in Corning, New York, the
address of the old Knights of Columbus house
where the Center was founded. Community
members consisting of arts advocates, artists,
and business entrepreneurs came together to
form an organization to provide a place for art-
ists and community members to come to-
gether, fostering artistic growth. From this
foundation the Center has grown into the
award-winning cultural hub that it is today.
While 171 Cedar Arts Center is a staple of
the Corning area and community, it also holds
a special place in my heart. My daughter, Au-
tumn, took dance lessons at 171 Cedar Arts
Center from the time she was four years old
until she graduated from high school. Her time
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18JN8.004 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E783
June 18, 2019
spent learning ballet, tap, and modern dance
with her exquisite instructors, Miss Melanie,
Beth Landin, and Patty Ozer, gave her lifelong
memories with immeasurable value. For that I
am truly grateful. At a young age my son, Will,
along with my wife, Jean, participated in music
classes. Both Autumn and Will learned valu-
able lessons and seeds were planted which
have now bloomed and witnessed by their
daily appreciation for the arts.
Fifty years of cultivating the arts in our com-
munity is certainly a cause for celebration. I
congratulate 171 Cedar Arts Center on this
impressive milestone and look forward to their
continued success in the years to come.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of 171 Cedar
Arts Center in Corning, New York.
f
HONORING JOHN SHACKFORD
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. John
Shackford for his contribution to our Napa Val-
ley community as a local business owner and
dedicated community member.
Mr. Shackford was born in Los Angeles,
California, and received a Bachelor of Arts in
Political Science from Whittier College. He
served in the Air Force from 1951 to 1958 as
a distinguished fighter pilot and is a Korean
War veteran. Mr. Shackford married the late
Ms. Donna Shackford and in 1960 they moved
to Napa County.
For forty-three years, Mr. Shackford owned
Shackford’s Kitchen Store, the beloved cul-
inary store located in downtown Napa. The
store employed countless people from our
community and served local businesses, home
chefs, and culinary students. Prior to estab-
lishing Shackford’s Kitchen Store, Mr.
Shackford was the owner and chief head pilot
at the Nut Tree in Vacaville from 1967 to
1974.
Mr. Shackford has been active in our com-
munity through the programs he and Ms.
Shackford sponsored over the last thirty years.
He sponsored Babe Ruth baseball teams, girls
softball teams, Slow Pitch teams, 4-H, and
Derby cars for kids. Mr. Shackford is a family
oriented man and he has shown with his gen-
erosity and involvement that he considers
Napa to be part of his family.
Madam Speaker, John Shackford is an im-
portant member of our Napa County commu-
nity. He is a kind and giving person who has
served the people of Napa for over forty-three
years. It is therefore fitting and proper that we
honor him here today.
f
CONGRATULATING THE ILLINOIS
MARINE CORPS LEAGUE ON ITS
SERVICE TO THE MARINE CORPS
FOR 75 YEARS
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Illinois Marine Corps League
on its 75th Annual Department of Illinois Con-
vention. Congratulations for serving the United
States Marine Corps in Illinois for 75 years.
The Marine Corps League was founded by
Major General John A. LeJeune and has ever
since been committed to upholding the ideals
of the United States Marine Corps. Through-
out the years, the League has provided a
place for Marines to come together in the
common bond they shared in service to our
nation. The League also has the ability to
bring together Marines who are currently serv-
ing with those who have been honorably dis-
charged, making the group span across gen-
erations of leadership in the Marine Corps. It
is my hope that this convention allows this
group to celebrate the goals of the Marine
Corps League and all they have accomplished
in service to our nation.
It is because of dedicated community orga-
nizations such as the Illinois Marine Corps
League that I am especially proud to serve Illi-
nois’ 17th Congressional District. Madam
Speaker, I would like to again formally con-
gratulate the Illinois Marine Corps League on
its 75th Annual Department of Illinois Conven-
tion.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND CAREER
OF ROBERT A. GANLEY
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the career and ac-
complishments of Robert A. Ganley, a local
leader in the private sector who has played an
influential role in the revitalization of the Buf-
falo-Niagara region, upon the occasion of his
retirement.
For nearly 30 years, Robert Ganley has
served as the President of lvoclar Vivadent, a
Buffalo-Niagara based dental technology busi-
ness with global reach. The company is a
wholly owned subsidiary of lvoclar Vivadent
AG, a Liechtenstein based company with sub-
sidiaries in 25 countries, and employs about
3,500 people worldwide.
Under the excellent leadership of Mr.
Ganley, the company has had an immense
economic impact on Western New York, grow-
ing from roughly 20 employees in 1990 to
about 230 today. Mr. Ganley has also over-
seen tremendous growth in the company’s
sales, transforming it from a struggling com-
pany in the 1980s into a successful business
with over 300 million dollars in sales today.
During his tenure at lvoclar Vivadent, Mr.
Ganley has sponsored numerous special ini-
tiatives to promote community outreach and
mission, including Give Kids a Smile Day and
the Wisdom Tooth Project. His main priority as
the company’s president has always been giv-
ing back to the community and providing es-
sential services to patients in need in Western
New York and around the world.
Over the course of his career, Mr. Ganley
has received numerous awards for his out-
standing leadership and expertise in the field
of dental technology. In 2013, he was inducted
as an Honorary Fellow into the International
College of Dentists, and he received the Vi-
sionary Award from the American College of
Prosthodontics in 2018.
In March of this year, Business First award-
ed Mr. Ganley with the Excellence in
Healthcare Award for his visionary leadership
of lvoclar Vivadent and his steadfast commit-
ment to providing underserved populations
with access to oral healthcare. This April, Mr.
Ganley also received the Lifetime Achieve-
ment Evy Award from the American Academy
of Cosmetic Dentistry.
Madam Speaker, I thank you for allowing
me a few moments to recognize Robert A.
Ganley, a leader in the healthcare industry
who has devoted his entire career to contrib-
uting to the growth and development of the
Buffalo-Niagara region.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SAN ANGELO
MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS EXHIBIT
AT THE EUROPEAN UNION AM-
BASSADOR’S RESIDENCE IN
WASHINGTON, D.C.
HON. K. MICHAEL CONAWAY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the unveiling of over thirty
pieces of art from the San Angelo Museum of
Fine Arts in the European Union Ambas-
sador’s Residence in Washington, D.C. on
June 20, 2019.
These works date back to the 1920’s and
represent a variety of creative approaches and
artistic styles. The ceramic pieces, by re-
nowned artists from all over the world, range
from functional to sculptural to abstract, and
the paintings and sculptures by Texas artists
are hallmark examples of movements such as
surrealism, American regionalism, minimalism,
and impressionism.
Texas has a rich, multicultural history that is
well-represented through this collection. I am
incredibly honored to have these pieces from
Texas’ 11th District on display in the Ambas-
sador’s home where they will be viewed and
appreciated by individuals from across the
world. It is a historic feat for art from an Amer-
ican museum to be displayed in a foreign dip-
lomatic residence, and I am proud to have
San Angelo and Texan artists represented on
the world stage in this way.
I would like to specifically recognize the art-
ists from Texas who will have their work dis-
played: Randy Brodnax, Vorakit
Chinookoswong, Fidencio Duran, Altha Leona
Edge, Juan Granados, W. Frederick Jarvis,
Chapman Kelley, Lebeth Lammers, Ben Liv-
ingston, Otis Lumpkin, Patricia Nix, and one of
San Angelo’s very own world-renowned artist,
René Alvarado, who also assisted with the
transport and install of the art.
This exhibition is a testament to the excel-
lent leadership of the museum, and the com-
mitment of the community to strive for excel-
lence. I would like to thank the Director of the
San Angelo Museum of Fine Arts, Howard
Taylor, as well as the Museum’s board and
staff members. I also want to recognize the
European Ambassador to the United States,
for his generosity in displaying these works
and opening his home to Texas art and cul-
ture.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.001 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E784 June 18, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I missed votes on Wednesday, June
12 and Thursday, June 13. Had I been
present, I would have voted as follows: Roll
Call Vote Number 249 (Motion to Adjourn):
‘‘no’’; Roll Call Vote Number 250 (Motion to
Adjourn): ‘‘no’’; Roll Call Vote Number 251
(Passing H. AMDT. 268 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. JIM MCGOVERN): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 252 (Passing H. AMDT. 270 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. DONNA SHALALA): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 253 (Passing H.
AMDT. 271 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
MARK DESAULNIER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 254 (Passing H. AMDT. 272 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. MARK DESAULNIER):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 255 (Passing H.
AMDT. 273 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
MARK DESAULNIER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 256 (Passing H. AMDT. 274 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. MARK
DESAULNIER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number
257 (Passing H. AMDT. 277 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. CHRIS SMITH): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 258 (Passing H. AMDT. 278 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. BOBBY SCOTT):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 259 (Passing H.
AMDT. 279 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
PETER DEFAZIO): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number
260 . (Passing H. AMDT. 280 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. SHEILA JACKSON LEE): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 261 (Passing H.
AMDT. 281 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
SHEILA JACKSON LEE): ‘‘yes’’.
Roll call Vote Number 262 (Passing H.
AMDT. 282 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. BILL
PASTRELL): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 263
(Passing H. AMDT. 283 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. DANNY DAVIS): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 264 (Ordering the Previous Question):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 265 (Passing H.
Res. 436): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 266
(Passing H. AMDT. 267 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. TOM COLE): ‘‘no’’; Roll Call Vote Num-
ber 267 (Passing H. AMDT. 275 to H.R. 2740
offered by Rep. MARTHA ROBY): ‘‘no’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 268 (Passing H. AMDT. 284 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. VERN BUCHANAN):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 269 (Passing H.
AMDT. 285 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. JIM
LANGEVIN): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 270
(Passing H. AMDT. 286 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. BILL FOSTER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 271 (Passing H. AMDT. 287 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. BILL FOSTER): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 272. (Passing H.
AMDT. 288 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. BILL
FOSTER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 273
(Passing H. AMDT. 289 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. BILL FOSTER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 274 (Passing H. AMDT. 290 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. ADAM SCHIFF): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 275 (Passing H.
AMDT. 291 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
DAVID MCKINLEY): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Num-
ber 276 (Passing H. AMDT. 292 to H.R. 2740
offered by Rep. G. K. BUTTERFIELD): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 277 (Passing H.
AMDT. 293 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. BILL
JOHNSON): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 278
(Passing H. AMDT. 294 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. GWEN MOORE): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 279 (Passing H. AMDT. 295 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. GWEN MOORE): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 280 (Passing H.
AMDT. 297 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
DORIS MATSUI): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number
281 (Passing H. AMDT. 298 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. ANDY BARR): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 282 (Passing H. AMDT. 299 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. EMMANUEL
CLEAVER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 283
(Passing H. AMDT. 300 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. KATHY CASTOR): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 284 (Passing H. AMDT. 301 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. FRENCH HILL): ‘‘no.’’; Roll
Call Vote Number 285 (Passing H. AMDT. 302
to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. FRENCH HILL):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 286 (Passing H.
AMDT. 303 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
AYANNA PRESSLEY): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 287 (Passing H. AMDT. 304 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. RO KHANNA): ‘‘yes’’; Roll
Call Vote Number 288 (Passing H. AMDT. 305
to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. CEDRIC RICH-
MOND): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 289
(Passing H. AMDT. 306 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. JIM BANKS): ‘‘no’’; Roll Call Vote Num-
ber 290 (Passing H. AMDT. 307 to H.R. 2740
offered by Rep. BILL KEATING): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 291 (Passing H. AMDT. 308 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. CAROL MILLER):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 292 (Passing H.
AMDT. 309 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
DAVID CICILLINE): ‘‘yes’’ Roll Call Vote Number
293 (Passing H. AMDT. 310 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. AMI BERA): ‘‘yes’’ Roll Call Vote
Number 294 (Passing H. AMDT. 311 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. JOAQUIN CASTRO): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 295 (Passing H.
AMDT. 312 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
HAKEEM JEFFRIES): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Num-
ber 296 (Passing H. AMDT. 313 to H.R. 2740
offered by Rep. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 297 (Passing H.
AMDT. 314 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
ALMA ADAMS): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number
298 (Passing H. AMDT. 315 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. ALMA ADAMS): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 299 (Passing H. AMDT. 316 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. DON BEYER): ‘‘YES’’;
ROLL CALL VOTE NUMBER 300 (PASSING H.
AMDT. 317 TO H.R. 2740 OFFERED BY REP.
DON BEYER): ‘‘YES’’; ROLL CALL VOTE NUMBER
301 (PASSING H. AMDT. 318 TO H.R. 2740 OF-
FERED BY REP. LISA BLUNT ROCHESTER): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 302 (Passing H.
AMDT. 319 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
STEPHANIE MURPHY): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 303 (Passing H. AMDT. 320 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-
CORTEZ): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 304
(Passing H. AMDT. 321 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ): ‘‘yes’’;
Roll Call Vote Number 305 (Passing H.
AMDT. 322 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. BEN
MCADAMS): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 306
(Passing H. AMDT. 323 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. KIM SCHRIER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 307 (Passing H. AMDT. 324 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. SUSIE LEE): ‘‘yes’’; Roll
Call Vote Number 308 (Passing H. AMDT. 325
to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. ANGIE CRAIG):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 309 (Passing H.
AMDT. 326 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
ANGIE CRAIG): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number
310 (Passing H. AMDT. 327 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. ANGIE CRAIG): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 311 (Passing H. AMDT. 328 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. KATIE PORTER):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 312 (Passing H.
AMDT. 329 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
KATIE PORTER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number
313 (Passing H. AMDT. 330 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. KATIE PORTER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 314 (Passing H. AMDT. 331 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. DEBBIE
MURCARSEL-POWELL): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote
Number 315 (Passing H. AMDT. 332 to H.R.
2740 offered by Rep. ANDY LEVIN): ‘‘yes’’; Roll
Call Vote Number 316 (Passing H. AMDT. 333
to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. AYANNA
PRESSLEY): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 317
(Passing H. AMDT. 334 to H.R. 2740 offered
by Rep. ABIGAIL SPANBERGER): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call
Vote Number 318 (Passing H. AMDT. 335 to
H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. ANTONIO DELGADO):
‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number 319 (Passing H.
AMDT. 336 to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep.
JASON CROW): ‘‘yes’’; Roll Call Vote Number
320 (Passing H. AMDT. 337 to H.R. 2740 of-
fered by Rep. CHRISSY HOULAHAN): ‘‘yes’’; Roll
Call Vote Number 321 (Passing H. AMDT. 338
to H.R. 2740 offered by Rep. MARK POCAN):
‘‘yes’’; and Roll Call Vote Number 322 (Pass-
ing H. AMDT. 339 to H.R. 2740 offered by
Rep. BILL PASCRELL): ‘‘yes’’.
f
RECOGNIZING MOLLY PINTA
HON. BRADLEY SCOTT SCHNEIDER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the extraordinary initiative
and leadership of Molly Pinta, a 13-year-old
resident of Buffalo Grove, Illinois who orga-
nized her town’s first ever LGBTQ Pride Pa-
rade on June 2nd.
More than 5,000 people came together to
celebrate the LGBTQ community with Molly at
a boisterous, family-friendly event on June 2.
The parade was the culmination of months of
planning by Molly. With support from her par-
ents, she raised more than $40,000 for the
event and related foundation, the Pinta Pride
Project which aims to empower the LGBTQ
community in Buffalo Grove.
Because of her achievements in Buffalo
Grove work, Molly was named the Youth
Grand Marshal for the Chicago Pride Parade
on June 30. ‘‘Molly is the result and a shining
example of the hard work and sacrifices made
by those generations of activists who for 50
years have toiled before, and leading up to
Stonewall,’’ said Richard Pfeiffer, one of the
Chicago Pride Parade organizers, in a state-
ment to the press. Molly’s vision united her
community and inspired others, especially
young people, to be proud of who they are.
Our nation’s rapid march toward equality for
the LGBTQ community—from the end of Don’t
Ask, Don’t Tell to nationwide marriage equal-
ity—is a story of undeniable progress. While
much work remains unfinished to achieve the
goal of full equality, I take heart witnessing the
support and acceptance of our young peo-
ple—Molly’s generation—for their peers. They
give me hope that our future is in good hands.
It is my privilege to recognize Molly Pinta for
her bravery and passion in her community.
She has already made a positive mark in her
first 13 years, and I look forward to seeing
what she will do in years to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.005 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E785
June 18, 2019
RECOGNIZING MICHAEL J.
SHEEHAN, AKA ‘‘THE PRO-
FESSOR,’’ FOR THE 900TH EPI-
SODE OF WORDS TO THE WISE
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Mike Sheehan, also known
as ‘‘The Professor,’’ upon the occasion of the
900th episode of his program Words to the
Wise on WTCM NewsTalk 580 in Traverse
City, Michigan. Through his exceptional in-
sight, expert knowledge of the English lan-
guage, and unique ability to teach with accu-
racy and humor, The Professor has become
an indispensable part of Michigan’s First Dis-
trict.
Born and raised in the southside of Chi-
cago, Sheehan spent much of his early life as
a monk in the Order of St. Augustine, being
ordained as a priest in 1965. He would later
leave the priesthood to become an instructor
of English at the Olive-Harvey College of the
City Colleges of Chicago, where he taught for
26 years and wrote three textbooks, a dic-
tionary, and two novels. Upon retirement, he
and his late wife decided to make Northern
Michigan their home. Deciding to stay active in
his retirement, Sheehan has served on the
state of Michigan’s Commission on Services to
the Aging and is a member of the Society of
Midland Authors, the Dictionary Society of
North America, the American Dialect Society,
and Michigan Writers. He also received the
Distinguished Senior of the National Cherry
Festival award in 2013.
For the past 18 years Mike has also hosted
a weekly radio show, Words to the Wise, on
WTCM NewsTalk 580. This show, which is
heard by listeners in 19 counties throughout
Michigan, dives into the interesting, humorous,
and sometimes bizarre world of grammar,
spelling, punctuation, and etymology. His
unique passion and sense of humor have re-
sulted in his show being beloved by students,
retirees, and everyone in between. The 900th
episode of Words to the Wise will air live from
the City Opera House in Traverse City, Michi-
gan, on July 16.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to recognize
‘‘The Professor’’ for hitting the milestone of
900 episodes full of entertainment and edu-
cation. Michiganders can take great pride in
knowing the First District is home to such a
dedicated individual. On behalf of my constitu-
ents, I wish Mike all the best in his future en-
deavors.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF FORMER
INDIANA POLITICIAN, GENE
SNOWDEN
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life of former Indiana politician and
community leader, Gene Snowden.
Snowden was a lifelong public servant in In-
diana state and local politics, having served in
the Indiana House of Representatives and In-
diana State Senate in a legislative career that
spanned nearly 20 years.
He served as an Indiana City Councilman
for Huntington and as Mayor of Huntington, In-
diana. In his political career, he lost just one
election.
Snowden was an active member of his com-
munity, involved heavily in his church and civic
organizations like the Police Athletic League,
the Salvation Army, the Huntington County
Historical Society, the Boy Scouts, United
Way, Christian Literature for Africa, and oth-
ers.
While there’s not enough words to fully en-
capsulate all of Gene Snowden’s accomplish-
ments, his life is proof positive of the timeless
legacy each one of us can forge, for ourselves
and generations to come.
I offer my deepest condolences to his wife,
four daughters, six grandchildren, and 12
great-grandchildren whom he leaves behind.
f
HONORING EDGAR J. CURTIS FOR
RECEIVING THE ORDER OF LIN-
COLN AWARD
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to recognize Edgar J. Curtis for receiving the
Order of Lincoln award from the Office of the
Governor. This prestigious award is the high-
est honor that the state of Illinois can present
for professional achievement and public serv-
ice.
Ed currently sits as the President and Chief
Executive Office of Memorial Health Systems
in Springfield. He is also a member of the
Southern Illinois University Board of Trustees,
and a Southern Illinois University—
Edwardsville School of Nursing Hall of Fame
member. Throughout his professional career
and philanthropic efforts, Ed has had tremen-
dous impact on the medical community in Illi-
nois.
Ed has always had a passion for helping
others and improving the lives of those around
him. Since junior high, he has wanted to make
a difference in the medical field. Ed attended
Southern Illinois University—Edwardsville,
where he received his bachelor’s degree in
nursing. Later Ed earned an MBA from the
University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana,
who also named him an honorary Doctor of
Humane Letters. After his schooling, Ed
turned his focus to helping others, and has
done just that throughout his career.
Again, I extend my sincere congratulations
to Edgar J. Curtis for receiving the Order of
Lincoln award.
f
RECOGNIZING LIEUTENANT COLO-
NEL JEFFREY J. IGNATOWSKI
FOR HIS SERVICE TO
LETTERKENNY MUNITIONS CEN-
TER
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to salute the service of Lieuten-
ant Colonel Jeffrey J. Ignatowski, who has
served his nation and the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania admirably as Commander of the
Letterkenny Munitions Center (LEMC) in
Chambersburg, Pennsylvania over the last two
years. During Lieutenant Colonel Ignatowski’s
command, LEMC executed six worldwide am-
munition rehearsal of concept drills, imple-
mented a tier meeting process that acceler-
ated work flow and communication, and multi-
plied employee suggestion implementation
program participation.
His leadership has strengthened LEMC’s
reputation as the Army’s premier munitions
center, orchestrating the distribution, mainte-
nance, and demilitarization of munitions from
around the globe. On behalf of Pennsylvania’s
13th District, I want to thank Lieutenant Colo-
nel Ignatowski and his family for his selfless
service, and moreover highlight the sense of
purpose with which he has handled every
project managed in his time at Letterkenny
Munitions Center.
His leadership and the progressive changes
he made will live on, and it is with the utmost
appreciation with which I wish him the best as
he continues to serve his nation in new capac-
ities. I take great pleasure in congratulating
Lieutenant Colonel Ignatowski on his pro-
digious accomplishments and thank him for
his tireless devotion to duty and continued
service to the state and to the nation.
f
HONORING MICHAEL NGUYEN
HON. TED S. YOHO
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I would like to
bring attention to the unjust detention of an
American citizen, Mr. Michael Phuong Minh
Nguyen, in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
Mr. Nguyen was arrested on July 7, 2018
while visiting elderly relatives in Vietnam. He
has since been held at the Phan Dang Luu
Detention Center in Ho Chi Minh City. While
the Vietnamese government still has not pro-
vided any evidence of wrongdoing that would
justify his arrest, the Vietnamese government
has confirmed they are charging Mr. Nguyen
for allegedly violating Article 109 of Vietnam’s
Penal Code, engaging in activity against the
government.
I have worked with my colleagues in Con-
gress, the Administration, our embassy per-
sonnel, as well as with Mr. Nguyen’s family, to
encourage the government of Vietnam to find
a fast, transparent, and fair resolution to this
case. Unfortunately, Mr. Nguyen is still being
held in Vietnam. It is disheartening that an
American citizen be detained for such a pro-
longed time before a trial is held.
Over the past four decades, our two coun-
tries have built a strong relationship based on
trade, trust and mutual respect. My hope is
that we can continue this relationship without
the detraction of these kind of events. I will
continue to urge a just resolution for Mr.
Nguyen until he can return to his family and
friends in the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.008 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E786 June 18, 2019
CONGRATULATING THE QUAD CIT-
IES VET CENTER ON 40 YEARS
OF SERVICE
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Quad Cities Vet Center on 40
years of assisting the veterans of this commu-
nity. As a member of the House Appropria-
tions Subcommittee on Military Construction
and Veterans Affairs, I’m committed to serving
the men and women who’ve worn our coun-
try’s uniform—making sure they have the re-
sources they deserve and have earned.
The Quad Cities Vet Center was established
in 1979 as a response to the lack of services
that veterans received after the Vietnam War.
Today, the center provides a wide range of
social and psychological services, such as in-
dividual, group, marriage and family coun-
seling. I am proud to represent a community
that provides such essential services to vet-
erans and their families, and I look forward to
the continuation of their program. I join the
Quad Cities community to celebrate this mile-
stone and commend them on all of their ef-
forts to improve the lives of those who have
served our nation.
It is because of philanthropic services such
as this that I am especially proud to serve Illi-
nois’ 17th Congressional District. Madam
Speaker, I would like to again formally con-
gratulate the Quad Cities Vet Center on their
40th Anniversary and all that they do to enrich
our community.
f
IN HONOR OF MS. SUE SWANN
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Ms. Sue Swann’s forty
years of service to the Essex County Depart-
ment of Social Security.
Ms. Swann was known as a diligent and de-
termined employee who gave everyone she
worked with countless reasons to admire her
work ethic. Not only did she dedicate four dec-
ades of her life to the Department, but she
worked three years in other state offices as
well.
At work, she was frequently requested per-
sonally by clients for face-to-face meetings to
discuss the benefits entitled to them. She did
her job with unmatched compassion and care.
Over forty years, she decided to stay in her
position and reject countless promotions. Had
she chosen to move to other localities, she
could have been a Benefit Program Specialist
4 or 5, but because of the passion she has for
what she did, she remained a Specialist.
Ms. Swann plans to go into retirement now
after decades of her tremendous work, and I
wish her the best of luck in her future endeav-
ors.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring the service of this great woman, Ms.
Sue Swann, to the people of Virginia’s 1st Dis-
trict, to the Commonwealth of Virginia, and to
the entirety of our great nation. May God bless
Sue and her family for her countless hours of
labor in service to her country.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR.
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Madam Speaker,
due to illness, I was physically absent from the
House of Representatives on June 10, 2019.
On that day, I missed 3 recorded votes. I in-
clude in the RECORD how I would have voted
had I been present for those votes.
On Roll Call No. 242 on the Passage of
H.R. 542, I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 243 on the Passage of
H.R. 2539, I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 244 on the Passage of
H.R. 2590, I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
f
CONGRATULATING RICH AND JUDY
BUCHANAN
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Rich and
Judy Buchanan of Bloomington, Illinois who
were among the honorees named as 2019
History Makers by the McLean County Mu-
seum of History.
Rich’s career in public service started short-
ly after his marriage to Judy and spanned
nearly fifty years. He was first appointed to the
Regional Planning Commission in 1971 and
shortly after was elected to the Bloomington
City Council at the age of 31. He then served
as Bloomington’s mayor from 1977 to 1985.
His final elected position was as a member of
the McLean County Board from 2012 to 2017.
Judy was also active in politics at nearly
every level: her own husband’s campaign for
mayor, state legislative races, congressional
campaigns, and the campaign of former Presi-
dent George H.W. Bush, introducing him on
his campaign stop in McLean County. Al-
though, she is perhaps most well-known for
her fierce advocacy on behalf of the Alz-
heimer’s Association. Having lost her own
mother to the disease at a young age, she
spent countless hours at the Illinois State Cap-
itol bringing awareness to mental health
issues and funding for Alzheimer’s centers
across the state.
I am proud to call the Buchanans friends.
They deserve to be recognized and thanked
for their decades of leadership and service to
their community.
Congratulations to Rich and Judy, on this
wonderful accomplishment.
f
CELEBRATING THE 130TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE CITY OF
MANISTEE FIRE STATION
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize the City of Manistee Fire
Station upon the occasion of its 130th anniver-
sary and designation as the ‘‘Oldest Continu-
ously Manned Operating Fire Station’’ by
Guinness World Records. Through its extraor-
dinary history and commitment to the public
good, the Manistee Fire Station has become
an indispensable part of Michigan’s First Dis-
trict.
First constructed in 1889, the Manistee Fire
Station has been manned continuously—24
hours a day, 7 days a week—ever since. The
hundreds of firefighters that have since served
in the station’s 130 years fully devoted them-
selves to protecting the lives and well-being of
the residents of Manistee, and the impact of
their heroism cannot be understated.
Efforts to receive recognition from Guinness
World Records were spearheaded by Fred
LaPoint, who first joined the fire department in
1979. The approval process required more
than two years of verification and was only
possible thanks to the tireless effort of com-
munity leaders like Mark Fedder, executive di-
rector of the Manistee County Historical Mu-
seum. The fire station was finally awarded the
title of ‘‘Oldest Continuously Manned Oper-
ating Fire Station’’ on its 130th anniversary—
the very first time Guinness World Records
has ever made this award designation.
Madam Speaker, the celebration of the
Manistee Fire Station’s 130th anniversary and
designation as the oldest continuously
manned operating fire station is the perfect
opportunity for us to appreciate its unique his-
tory, cultural impact, and significance to North-
ern Michigan. Michiganders can take immense
pride in knowing that the First District is home
to such an important landmark. On behalf of
my constituents, I wish the City of Manistee
Fire Station all the best in its future endeav-
ors.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
RUPERT M. BARKOFF
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life and work of
Rupert M. Barkoff, a leader in Atlanta and the
franchise business community.
Rupert M. Barkoff was born May 7, 1948, in
New Orleans, Louisiana, to Martha and Sam-
uel Barkoff. He graduated from the Isidore
Newman School in New Orleans and later
went on to graduate from the University of
Michigan Ann Arbor and the University of
Michigan Law School.
After graduating from law school, Barkoff
moved to Atlanta where he practiced law for
46 years with Kilpatrick Townsend and estab-
lished himself as a prominent and beloved
member of the firm. With his creation of the
Fundamentals of Franchising program and
book, Barkoff transformed the way in which
lawyers new to franchising are introduced to
the business model.
Known for his generosity of spirit and knowl-
edge in franchisor and franchisee practices,
Barkoff taught a franchise law course at the
University of Georgia. He was devoted to his
students and took a personal interest in each
and every one. He even made a point of
meeting with them individually to discuss their
interests and mentor them toward their goals.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.013 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E787
June 18, 2019
Barkoff was not only a mentor to his stu-
dents, but also to so many involved with the
franchise bar. Countless lawyers admired his
leadership in guiding them through the fran-
chising business model. Those who had the
pleasure to work with Barkoff will remember
him for his gentleness, intelligence, and great
sense of humor.
As an early pioneer of franchise law, Barkoff
laid the fabric of franchising in Atlanta. The
Southeast Franchise Forum, of which he was
a founding member, is a regional organization
in Atlanta as part of the International Fran-
chise Association, established to foster profes-
sional relationships throughout the franchise
community and to enhance the reputation of
franchising through the exchange of informa-
tion, ideas and solutions.
Our home state of Georgia is a thriving fran-
chise hub containing 26,500 establishments,
creating 275,800 jobs, and producing $22.7
billion in economic output. There are 345 fran-
chise companies headquartered in Georgia
today, and Barkoff directly contributed to this
economic boom in our city by ensuring these
well-known brands operated with the highest
standards of compliance in franchising.
Rupert will always be remembered by his
family, friends, and colleagues as a trusted
friend, a great mind, and a devoted family
man. His children and his grandchildren, who
affectionately called him ‘‘Umps,’’ cherished
the many Michigan football games they at-
tended together. He is survived by his wife
Susan, his two sisters, his three children and
their spouses, and his many grandchildren,
nieces and nephews. Our condolences go out
to Rupert’s family and friends.
f
HONORING THE WORK OF LONNIE
G. BUNCH III
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in recognizing Lonnie G. Bunch III in his
new position as the Secretary of the Smithso-
nian Institution, one of the highest positions in
the museum world. He will be the 14th Sec-
retary of the Smithsonian, responsible for 19
museums, nine research centers and the Na-
tional Zoo, together employing 7,000 people
with a $1.5 billion budget annually.
On June 16th, Bunch will begin his tenure
as Secretary, leaving his position as the direc-
tor of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of
African American History and Culture
(NMAAHC). He is the ideal person to tackle
the challenges and opportunities of the Smith-
sonian.
Bunch is owed the lion’s share of the credit
for the creation of NMAAHC. What started as
a broad mandate from Congress, one staff
member and no collection, NMAAHC has
grown to become one of the great gems in the
nation’s capital. NMAAHC has had over4 mil-
lion visitors since its doors opened in 2016.
Bunch’s political and fundraising talents
brought $270 million in federal money and
$317 million in private donations for NMAAHC
before it opened in 2016.
Bunch began working for the Smithsonian in
1989. He spent 11 years At the National Mu-
seum of American History, where he worked,
in part, as the museum’s associate director for
curatorial affairs. He left to work as the presi-
dent of the Chicago Historical Society and
later as the curator of history and program
manager for the California African American
Museum.
As a student, he attended American Univer-
sity in Washington, D.C. and received his
master’s and bachelor’s degrees in History.
He will be the first historian to be Secretary of
the Smithsonian. He is also the first African
American to lead the Smithsonian in its 172-
year history and the first museum director to
be named Secretary in 74 years.
Among Bunch’s many accomplishments is
writing various books, ranging from the black
military experience to the American presidency
to diversity in museum management. He has
taught at several universities over the years,
including American University and George
Washington University, and has traveled both
domestically and abroad for lectures and pres-
entations.
In 2002, Bunch was appointed by President
George W. Bush to the Committee for the
Preservation of the White House and re-
appointed by President Barack Obama in
2010. In 2005, he was named one of the most
influential museum professionals of the 20th
century by the American Association of Muse-
ums.
Madam Speaker, I ask the House of Rep-
resentatives to join me in recognizing Lonnie
G. Bunch III for his many achievements and in
congratulating him on his new role as the Sec-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution.
f
HONORING AVIS WARNER, LEON
SMITH, JOHN PLANTIER AND
PATRICE CIANCI FOR THEIR
DEDICATED COMMUNITY SERV-
ICE AND FOR BEING AWARDED
SENIOR OF THE YEAR
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize four North Country resi-
dents for their selfless dedication to their com-
munities. Each of these individuals was
awarded the Senior of the Year recognition by
their respective Warren and Hamilton County
Offices at their annual Office for the Aging
Luncheon on June 7, 2019.
Avis Warner of Hamilton County has been a
tireless volunteer with the Wells Volunteer Am-
bulance Corps where she currently serves as
its Captain. Additionally, she volunteers with
the Wells Senior Club, the Wells Volunteer
Fire Company, the Wells Improvement Club,
the Wells Fish and Game Club, the Wells
Snowmobile Club, The Wells Central School
Board and The Wesleyan Church.
Leon ‘‘Lee’’ Smith, also of Hamilton County,
organized a redemption center to raise money
for the Wells Volunteer Ambulance Corps
(WVAC). Thanks to his vision, they were able
to raise $60,000 which allowed the WVACto
purchase a new ambulance. Mr. Smith also
volunteered with the Town of Wells to create
a directory for local events, businesses, and
organizations. Finally, Mr. Smith volunteered
with the Algonquin Snowblazers, the Cub
Scouts, and the Wells Fish and Game Club.
John Plantier of Warren County has served
the Hadley Luzern Library for over two dec-
ades. He spent many of those years as the li-
brary’s President and as a member of the
board. As President, he exhibited a very
hands-on management style that saw him per-
forming tasks at all levels. He was just as
often presiding over board meetings as he
was helping with routine maintenance. He was
always ready to literally go the extra mile; giv-
ing rides to doctors’ appointments to those
without transportation, and delivering books
and meals to homebound residents. John is
also a member ofthe Lions Cub and the Had-
ley Luzerne Historical Society.
Patrice Cianci volunteers with the Bolton
Health Committee to deliver meals to home-
bound seniors in the northern Lake George
area. She also helps deliver gifts to these sen-
iors during the holiday season. Patrice has
made herself a crucial asset to the team at the
Warren County Office for the Aging that helps
ensure seniors around the Lake George area
can comfortably remain in their homes.
These four individuals have made a lasting
impact on their communities and have posi-
tively impacted the lives of many North Coun-
try residents. I am proud to serve such amaz-
ing and generous people in Congress and I
hope to live up to their example every day. On
behalf of New York’s 21st Congressional Dis-
trict, I would like to thank Patrice, John, Lee,
and Avis for their service to the North Country
and congratulate them on this well-deserved
award.
f
COMMENDING THE AUBURN HIGH
SCHOOL GIRLS TENNIS TEAM
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, it is my
pleasure to commend the Auburn High School
girls tennis team, which captured the Virginia
High School League (VHSL) Class 1 team
state title on June 8, 2019. The Eagles put on
a first-rate performance, defeating an excellent
team from Rappahannock High School by a
score of 5–4.
This marks the second consecutive season
in which the Eagles have captured the VHSL
Class 1 state championship. A victory from
Auburn’s No. 1 doubles pair Haley Gordon
and Molly McMichael clinched the title, cap-
ping off just under 51⁄2 hours of competition on
the day between the two squads. I applaud
the hard work and dedication of all members
of this year’s Auburn High School girls tennis
team, and congratulate the administrators,
teachers, coaches, parents, students, and
fans. In particular I would like to recognize the
contributions of the team’s seniors, and their
head coach Conrad Nester. Congratulations
on a great end to the season.
f
HONORING OONI ADEYEYE ENITAN
BABTUNDE OGUNWUSI, OJAJA II
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor His Imperial
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.018 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E788 June 18, 2019
Majesty Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Babtunde
Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, Ooni of Ife.
Ojaja II is a Nigerian monarch; since coro-
nation he has been able to harmonize the re-
lationships between all the Yoruba Royal lead-
ers and with the Nigerian government. He is a
member of the Institute of Chartered Account-
ants of Nigeria. He is an Associate Accounting
Technician. Oba Ogunwusi is a certified mem-
ber of the Institute of Directors. He is also a
member of the Global Real Estate Institute.
He holds multiple honorary doctorate degrees:
one in Public Administration from the Univer-
sity of Nigeria, Nsukka and another in Law
from Igbinedion University. Oba Ogunwusi is
the Chancellor at the University of Nigeria,
Nsukka.
He has been described as an astute entre-
preneur driven by the need to turn impossibil-
ities into possibilities. He is an advocate for
the empowerment and emancipation of
women and young people. He is a renowned
philanthropist who is committed to humanity
and an advocate for the less privileged.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing His Imperial Majesty Ooni
Adeyeye Enitan Babtunde Ogunwusi, Ojaja II
for his endeavors to the citizens of Nigeria and
for visiting the ‘‘Jewel of the Delta,’’ Mound
Bayou, MS.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR.
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Madam Speaker,
due to illness, I was physically absent from the
House of Representatives on June 12, 2019.
On that day, I missed 46 recorded votes. I in-
clude in the RECORD how I would have voted
had I been present for those votes.
On Roll Call No. 249 on the Motion to Ad-
journ, I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 250 on the Motion to Ad-
journ, I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 251 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 2 offered by Mr. MCGOVERN
(D–MA), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 252 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 4 offered by Ms. SHALALA (D–
FL), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 253 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 5 offered by Mr. DESAULNIER
(D–CA), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 254 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 6 offered by Mr. DESAULNIER
(D–CA), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 255 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 7 offered by Mr. DESAULNIER
(D–CA), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 256 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 8 offered by Mr. DESAULNIER
(D–CA), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 257 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 11 offered by Mr. SMITH (R–
NJ), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 258 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 12 offered by Mr. SCOTT (D–
VA), present, I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 259 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 13 offered by Mr. DEFAZIO
(D–OR), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 260 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 14 offered by Ms. JACKSON
LEE (D–TX), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 261 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 15 offered by Ms. JACKSON
LEE (D–TX), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 262 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 16 offered by Mr. PASCRELL
(D–NJ), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 263 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 17 offered by Mr. DAVIS (D–
IL), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 264 on the Ordering of the
Previous Question, I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 265 on the Adoption of H.
Res. 436, I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 266 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 1 offered by Mr. COLE (R–
OK), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 267 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 9 offered by Mrs. ROBY (R–
AL), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 268 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 18 offered by Mr. BUCHANAN
(R–FL), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 269 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 19 offered by Mr. LANGEVIN
(D–RI), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 270 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 20 offered by Mr. FOSTER (D–
IL), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 271 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 21 offered by Mr. FOSTER (D–
IL), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 272 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 22 offered by Mr. FOSTER (D–
IL), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 273 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 23 offered by Mr. FOSTER (D–
IL), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 274 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 24 offered by Mr. SCHIFF (D–
CA), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 275 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 25 offered by Mr. MCKINLEY
(R–WV), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 276 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 26 offered by Mr.
BUTTERFIELD (D–NC), I would have voted
‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 277 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 27 offered by Mr. JOHNSON
(R–OH), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 278 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 28 offered by Ms. MOORE (D–
WI), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 279 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 29 offered by Ms. MOORE (D–
WI), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 280 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 32 offered by Ms. MATSUI (D–
CA), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 281 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 33 offered by Mr. BARR (R–
KY), I would have voted ‘‘ Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 282 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 34 offered by Mr. CLEAVER
(D–MO), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 283 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 36 offered by Ms. CASTOR
(D–FL), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 284 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 37 offered by Mr. HILL,
FRENCH (R–AK), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 285 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 38 offered by Mr. HILL,
FRENCH (R–AK), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 286 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 39 offered by Ms. PRESSLEY
(D–MA), I would have voted ‘‘ Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 287 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 40 offered by Mr. KHANNA
(D–CA), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 288 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 41 offered by Mr. RICHMOND
(D–LA), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 289 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 42 offered by Mr. BANKS (R–
IN), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 290 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 43 offered by Mr. KEATING
(D–MA), I would have voted ‘‘ Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 291 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 44 offered by Mrs. MILLER
(R–WV), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 292 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 45 offered by Mr. CICILLINE
(D–RI), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 293 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 46 offered by Mr. BERA (D–
CA), I would have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 294 on the Passage of
Amendment No. 47 offered by Mr. CASTRO
(D–TX), I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
f
JOSEPH M. LANE AMERICAN
LEGION POST 136 CENTENNIAL
HON. JOSH GOTTHEIMER
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to mark the centennial celebration of the
American Legion. On March 15, 1919, the
American Legion was founded in Paris,
France by U.S. military personnel in the after-
math of World War I. Today, 100 years later,
The American Legion is the world’s largest
veterans’ organization and has been at the
forefront of efforts to improve the lives of vet-
erans including the development of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, the creation of
the U.S. Flag Code, and passage of the G.I.
Bill.
The irreplaceable impact of the American
Legion continues 100 years later. Every year,
The American Legion provides assistance on
more than 181,000 VA claims and cases,
awards more than $4 million in scholarships,
and is the nation’s single largest donor of
blood.
Specifically, I would like to recognize the Jo-
seph M. Lane American Legion Post 136 in
my District in Lodi, New Jersey. The inaugural
meeting of what would today become the Jo-
seph M. Lane American Legion Post 136 was
held on September 9, 1919, at the Liberty
Street Fire House in Lodi. The Post’s name-
sake was Lodi resident, United States Army
Private Joseph M. Lane, who died in the serv-
ice in France.
As the Representative for the Fifth Congres-
sional District of New Jersey, I am proud to
recognize the Joseph M. Lane American Le-
gion Post 136 of Lodi for its countless con-
tributions to the Lodi community and its vet-
erans.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the American Legion for
reaching this amazing milestone and look for-
ward to many great years ahead.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.022 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E789
June 18, 2019
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
CORPORAL DAVID WOLMAN
HON. LEE M. ZELDIN
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life and service of a distinguished
New Yorker and proud World War II Veteran,
Corporal David Wolman of the 412th Air Serv-
ice Group. Born in Brooklyn, New York, Mr.
Wolman began his life of service to our nation
in 1942, when he elected to pursue a job in
air traffic operations with the U.S. military. He
served as an Air Traffic Controller, assisting
with operations during the D-Day invasion of
Normandy.
Corporal Wolman began his service by
training across the United States, starting on
Long Island at Camp Upton. After months of
specialized training he was stationed on the
Thorpe Abbots Airfield in England, where he
would communicate with pilots of the 8th Army
Air Force, 100th Bomb Group. Corporal
Wohnan communicated with pilots before, dur-
ing, and after missions, directing them during
takeoff and landing, and getting returning
planes any desperately needed emergency
services upon landing. In addition to serving
his country, Corporal Wolman was a servant
of his faith, helping conduct Jewish services
on Friday evenings.
Corporal Wolman was with the 100th Bomb
Group through some of their most difficult op-
erations, like the October 10, 1943, mission to
Munster, Germany. Corporal Wolman’s proud-
est and most memorable experience during
his time at Thorpe Abbots came on June 6,
1944—D-Day. He worked tirelessly for three
days to ensure air traffic operations during that
crucial turning point in history went smoothly.
Returning home, Corporal Wolman contin-
ued to pursue his passion, serving several
years as an Air Traffic Control Specialist with
the Federal Aviation Administration. Corporal
Wohnan remained a loyal friend, always keep-
ing in touch with his former Lieutenant, James
Pound. He was also a loyal husband and fa-
ther, married to his wife Gladys for 66 years.
Corporal David Wolman is a distinguished
American hero, dedicated to his family, his
faith, and his country. For his service to our
nation, we will be forever grateful.
f
DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR,
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, June 13, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2740) making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Labor,
Health, and Human Services, and Education,
and related agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other pur-
poses:
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, I thank the Gentle-
woman from New York for writing such a
strong State Foreign Operations Appropria-
tions Bill. You are a truly able chair. The base
bill and report contain $500,000 for Grass
Carp control and this amendment doubles
down on that investment, by providing an ad-
ditional $500,000 for a total of $1 million for
the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission to
manage Grass Carp.
Much of the countries Asian Carp focus has
been on stopping the Big-Head Carp, but let
us not forget that the Grass Carp pose an ex-
istential threat to the economic future of the
Great Lakes.
This threat is not theoretical. Just a few
weeks ago, we found Grass Carp larva in the
Maumee River. Every day, fisherman remove
Grass Carp from the Lakes.
To understand just how dangerous the
Grass Carp are, it is important to understand
that on average, they consume 50 percent of
their body weight of vegetation in just one day.
Think about those numbers. A five-pound
grass carp consumes 2.5 pounds of vegeta-
tion in a single day.
While Grass Carp present a deadly threat to
the Great Lakes fishery today, far too few re-
sources have been allocated to the Grass
Carp.
The Great Lakes Fisheries commission is
an ideal partner to control this bi-national
threat. The commission operates in coordina-
tion across our national borders to protect
both American and Canadian fisheries.
The biodiversity, commercial and rec-
reational fishery on the Great Lakes are
threatened by the Grass Carp.
The Great Lakes Fishery Commission has a
long history of controlling invasive species
across the American-Canadian border.
This amendment fills critical gaps and I urge
my colleagues to support it.
f
RECOGNIZING WILLIAM
GULLIFORD
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize City Councilman William
Gulliford of Jacksonville, Florida, who is retir-
ing after serving as Atlantic Beach Mayor, At-
lantic Beach Commissioner, and President of
the Jacksonville City Council. Today we honor
Bill’s outstanding public service to our commu-
nity.
Aside from his role in local government, Bill
is also a longtime business owner who is sin-
cere in his desire to do good for the citizens
of our community. He is a respected as an
honorable, collegial leader who is known for
bringing people in government and the private
sector together to solve problems. Most re-
cently, Bill worked to focus the City’s attention
on the opioid crisis and worked with numerous
partners on solutions. This is just one example
of his leadership and value to our community.
Besides his electoral contributions, Bill is a
founding Board Member of Habitat for Human-
ity of the Jacksonville Beaches, and past
president of the Beaches Boys Club, the
Beaches Quarterback Club and the Rotary
Club of Mandarin. He presently is a member
of the Oceanside Rotary Club and has re-
ceived numerous awards, including the
Charles D. Webb for Extraordinary Commit-
ment to Public Service and the Mary L. Sin-
gleton for his work on City Council. Bill has
also served in both President Carter’s and
President Reagan’s Small Business Councils.
Bill has been a resident of Jacksonville
since 1954 and of Atlantic Beach since 1972.
He graduated from Bishop Kenny High School
and the University of Florida. Bill and his wife
Harriet have four children, Trip, Thad, Kath-
erine and Elizabeth, and nine grandchildren.
His dedication to his community, his strong
work ethic, and his generosity of spirit are rea-
sons to celebrate Bill Gulliford’s public life and
to honor his service.
f
HONORING JIM SELLS AND HIS 40
YEAR CAREER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Jim Sells on his 40 years of service
to our community as Emergency Management
Coordinator for the City of Concord, located in
North Carolina’s Eighth Congressional District.
Over the last 40 years, Jim has made
countless contributions to our area. He started
his career in 1979 as a volunteer firefighter for
the Concord Fire Department and is retiring on
July 1st as the Emergency Management Coor-
dinator. His strong character and leadership
enabled him to advance within the City of
Concord Fire Department, culminating as
Emergency Management Coordinator.
Jim has earned the reputation for leading
the vital improvements to the City of Con-
cord’s emergency response infrastructure.
Through his leadership, he developed the ini-
tial Concord Emergency Management Ordi-
nance which created the division of Emer-
gency Management within the Concord Fire
Department. Exemplary of his passion for
service, Jim created the City’s first emergency
operations plan and has saved countless lives.
In honor of his tireless innovations, he was
recognized by the Executive Steering Com-
mittee for the Democratic National Convention
in 2012. The City of Concord now stands as
a premier model of emergency management
and readiness across the state of North Caro-
lina.
Jim has led by example over the years and
is someone for whom I have everlasting re-
spect and admiration. I know I speak for ev-
eryone in the community when I say we are
truly grateful for all of his service and cannot
thank him enough. I would like to offer my sin-
cerest appreciation and wish him a long and
happy retirement.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring Jim Sells on his 40 years of service
to our community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE AUBURN HIGH
SCHOOL GIRLS SOCCER TEAM
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize the Auburn High School
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.025 E18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E790 June 18, 2019
girls soccer team for earning a class 1 state
title on June 8, 2019. The girls soccer team
earned their championship, the first conducted
by the Virginia High School League for Class
1 soccer, in a close match with Stonewall
Jackson-Quicksburg at Christiansburg High
School.
The state championship clinched an 18–1
season for the Eagles. It was a close-run thing
on a windy and rainy day, with a tie broken
after four sudden victory periods and nine suc-
cessful penalty kicks alternating between each
team. The Eagles competed with discipline,
skill, and coolness under pressure. Congratu-
lations are in order for Coach Ashley Moreno
and the team, especially its seniors. Auburn’s
parents, teachers, students, and fans also
should take pride in this wonderful accom-
plishment.
f
CONGRATULATING THE BIG SANDY
WILDCATS ON THEIR BASEBALL
STATE CHAMPIONSHIP VICTORY
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate Big Sandy High School on win-
ning the University Interscholastic League
(UIL) baseball state championship for the
2018–2019 school year.
On Thursday, June 6, 2019, Big Sandy High
School claimed their second UIL Class 2A
baseball state title with a 7–1 win over Linden-
Kildare High School. This triumph marks the
end of an incredible four-year run for nine sen-
iors: Graden Emmons, Bryan Duff, Brandon
Hendrix, Broch Holmes, McKane Maxwell,
Garret Lilley, Brayden Lennox, Seth
Lalumandier, and Bryan Moseley. Since Big
Sandy Head Coach Jacob Hooker arrived four
years ago, these senior Wildcats were first a
game away from the state tournament their
freshman year, then state runners-up their
sophomore year, and now are back-to-back
state champions of Class 2A baseball.
Big Sandy High School ends a season to
remember with a record of 36–4, losing only
one Class 2A game all year to Refugio High
School during the playoffs. They are only the
19th school in Texas history to win the base-
ball state championship two years in a row. I
would like to personally recognize each stu-
dent as well as their coaches. It is an honor
to represent these young men in Congress,
and I am so elated to say that they have
made our community so proud.
I wish each of these talented athletes con-
tinued success on and off the field. Go Wild-
cats.
CALLING ON THE SOCIALIST RE-
PUBLIC OF VIETNAM TO ENSURE
A FAIR TRIAL FOR MICHAEL
NGUYEN
HON. HARLEY ROUDA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I rise to high-
light the case of Michael Nguyen, an American
citizen and Orange County resident who has
been imprisoned by the Vietnamese govern-
ment for nearly a year.
Mr. Nguyen is a husband, a father, and a
leader in his community. He has lived his life
in the United States in accordance with our
laws, and he owns a small business where he
works to provide for his wife and four daugh-
ters.
For the past eleven months, Mr. Nguyen
has been held at the Phan Dang Luu Deten-
tion Center in Ho Chi Minh City, where he has
not been allowed to contact family or friends.
Mr. Nguyen was held without charge until
recently, when the charges against him were
announced and a trial was scheduled for June
24th and 25th.
As a signatory to the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights, Vietnam must up-
hold its commitment to the rights to due proc-
ess and a fair trial.
I join my colleagues in calling upon the So-
cialist Republic of Vietnam to uphold their
international commitment to human rights by
ensuring a fair trial for Michael Nguyen so that
he may be reunited with his family.
f
HONORING TUCSON’S NATIONAL
HISTORY DAY WINNERS
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor of Tucson, Arizona’s four stu-
dents who won first place at the National En-
dowment for the Humanities’ National History
Day contest. The young history buffs, Sean
Choudhry, Elias Rice-Bensch, Zia Rice-
Bensch, and Keona Wallen all attend the Ac-
celerated Learning Laboratory in my district.
Their website Radium Girls: From Jaw-Drop-
ping Tragedy to Glowing Triumph earned the
top prize in the contest that featured more
than 3,000 students from across the country.
National History Day began in the 1970s
and is the culmination of a yearlong academic
program for students in grades 6 through 12
to engage in historical research. Students
produce essays, exhibitions, films, perform-
ances, or websites to enter into local and state
competitions. State winners move on to com-
pete in the national finals at the University of
Maryland at College Park. The National En-
dowment for the Humanities has been a spon-
sor and partner of National History Day for
more than 30 years.
The theme for this year’s competition was
‘‘Triumph and Tragedy in History’’ and more
than a half million students submitted entries.
On their website, Sean, Elias, Zia, and Keona
state, ‘‘The radium girls were young factory
workers who unknowingly consumed lethal
amounts of radium, often resulting in slow,
painful deaths. Despite their tragic cir-
cumstances, their desire for change and per-
sistence in court caused revolutionary change
to workplace safety regulations and sparked
monumental scientific advancements regard-
ing radium and radioactivity.’’
The students go on to document how ra-
dium was commonly used and recommended.
At the focus of their website is the story of the
women who, at the start of the 20th century,
were exposed to high levels of radium in their
work as they painted watch dials. Such expo-
sure proved quickly fatal and resulted in phys-
ical deformities and cancer. The legal battles
that followed were tumultuous and provided
minor relief for the women who had been ex-
posed to radium. Their legacy, however, lives
on today as workplace protections continue to
be a focus on Capitol Hill.
These four incredible students have dem-
onstrated truly admirable talent and skill in
their deep dive into history. I am moved by
their desire to shed light on an overlooked and
long-forgotten story that still resonates today.
I want to congratulate Sean, Elias, Zia, Keona,
their families, and the educators who have
helped them get where they are today. I ex-
pect great things from each of them in the
near future and look forward to the positive
impact they will have on our district and
abroad.
f
HAPPY 89TH BIRTHDAY TO
RICHARD G. BRISTOL
HON. JOE CUNNINGHAM
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to wish my friend, Richard G. Bristol, a
happy 89th birthday. I hope Richard is enjoy-
ing his special day at his new home in Vero
Beach, Florida with a properly chilled Sam
Adams. Lots of love and warmest wishes from
everyone in the Cunningham clan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JN8.029 E18JNPT1
D683
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S3631–S3805
Measures Introduced: Seventeen bills were intro-
duced, as follows: S. 1875–1891. Pages S3651–52
Measures Passed:
Authorizing unique and one-time arrangements
for displays on the National Mall and Washington
Monument: Senate passed H.J. Res. 60, requesting
the Secretary of the Interior to authorize unique and
one-time arrangements for displays on the National
Mall and the Washington Monument during the pe-
riod beginning on July 16, 2019 and ending on July
20, 2019. Page S3804
Women Veterans Appreciation Day: Committee
on the Judiciary was discharged from further consid-
eration of S. Res. 235, designating June 12, 2019,
as ‘‘Women Veterans Appreciation Day’’, and the
resolution was then agreed to, after agreeing to the
following amendment proposed thereto: Page S3804
McConnell (for Booker/Blackburn) Amendment
No. 750, to amend the preamble. Page S3804
Measures Considered:
Proposed Transfer of Certain Defense Articles
and Services: Senate began consideration of the mo-
tion to discharge the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of S.J. Res. 36, providing for congressional dis-
approval of the proposed transfer to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and
the Italian Republic of certain defense articles and
services. Pages S3633–37
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency that was
originally declared in Executive Order 13219 of June
26, 2001, with respect to the Western Balkans;
which was referred to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs. (PM–20) Page S3651
Kacsmaryk Nomination—Cloture: By 52 yeas to
44 nays (Vote No. EX. 168), Senate agreed to the
motion to close further debate on the nomination of
Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Texas. Page S3640
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 9:30 a.m., on Wednes-
day, June 19, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the nomination, post-cloture, under the order of
Thursday, June 13, 2019. Page S3804
Winsor Nomination—Cloture: By 54 yeas to 42
nays (Vote No. EX. 169), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Allen Cothrel Winsor, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Florida.
Pages S3640–41
Cain, Jr. Nomination—Cloture: By 76 yeas to 20
nays (Vote No. EX. 170), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
James David Cain, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Louisiana.
Page S3641
Guidry Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Greg Gerard
Guidry, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Louisiana. Pages S3642–47
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. EX. 171), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S3641
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 59 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 167), Sean
Cairncross, of Minnesota, to be Chief Executive Offi-
cer, Millennium Challenge Corporation.
Pages S3637–40, S3805
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 59 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 166), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S3639
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Andrew George Biggs, of Oregon, to be a Mem-
ber of the Financial Oversight and Management
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D684 June 18, 2019
Board for Puerto Rico for the remainder of the term
expiring August 30, 2019.
Jose Baldomero Carrion, of Puerto Rico, to be a
Member of the Financial Oversight and Management
Board for Puerto Rico for the remainder of the term
expiring August 30, 2019.
Carlos M. Garcia, of Massachusetts, to be a Mem-
ber of the Financial Oversight and Management
Board for Puerto Rico for the remainder of the term
expiring August 30, 2019.
Arthur J. Gonzalez, of New York, to be a Mem-
ber of the Financial Oversight and Management
Board for Puerto Rico for the remainder of the term
expiring August 30, 2019.
Jose R. Gonzalez, of New York, to be a Member
of the Financial Oversight and Management Board
for Puerto Rico for the remainder of the term expir-
ing August 30, 2019.
Ana Matosantos, of California, to be a Member of
the Financial Oversight and Management Board for
Puerto Rico for the remainder of the term expiring
August 30, 2019.
David Skeel, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of
the Financial Oversight and Management Board for
Puerto Rico for the remainder of the term expiring
August 30, 2019.
3 Army nominations in the rank of general.
1 Marine Corps nomination in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Marine
Corps, and Navy. Pages S3804–05
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S3651
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S3652–58
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S3658
Additional Statements: Pages S3650–51
Amendments Submitted: Pages S3658–S3803
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S3803–04
Record Votes: Six record votes were taken today.
(Total—171) Pages S3639–41
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:29 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, June 19, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s RECORD
on page S3804.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee ordered favorably reported the nomina-
tions of Thomas Peter Feddo, of Virginia, to be As-
sistant Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Secu-
rity, Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce and Director General of the
United States and Foreign Commercial Service,
Michelle Bowman, of Kansas, to be a Member of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
Paul Shmotolokha, of Washington, to be First Vice
President of the Export-Import Bank of the United
States, and Allison Herren Lee, of Colorado, to be a
Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PROGRAM
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the reau-
thorization of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program,
after receiving testimony from Baird Webel, Spe-
cialist in Financial Economics, Congressional Re-
search Service, Library of Congress; and Tarique
Nageer, Marsh, and Howard Kunreuther, University
of Pennsylvania Wharton School Risk Management
and Decision Processes Center, both of New York,
New York.
DRONE SECURITY
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Security concluded a hearing to exam-
ine drone security, focusing on enhancing innovation
and mitigating supply chain risks, after receiving
testimony from Angela H. Stubblefield, Deputy As-
sociate Aministrator for Security and Hazardous Ma-
terials Safety, Federal Aviation Administration;
Harry Wingo, Faculty, College of Information and
Cyberspace, National Defense University, Depart-
ment of Defense; Catherine F. Cahill, University of
Alaska Center for Unmanned Aircraft Systems Inte-
gration, Fairbanks; Brian Wynne, Association for
Unmanned Vehicle Systems International, Arlington,
Virginia; and Harold H. Shaw, Massachusetts Port
Authority, East Boston.
FEDERAL LANDS
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine deferred mainte-
nance needs and potential solutions on Federal lands
administered by the Department of the Interior and
the Department of Agriculture Forest Service, after
receiving testimony from Scott Cameron, Principal
Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Policy,
Management and Budget; Lenise Lago, Associate
Chief, Forest Service, Department of Agriculture;
Dan Puskar, Public Lands Alliance, Silver Spring,
Maryland; Elizabeth Archuleta, Coconino County,
Flagstaff, Arizona, on behalf of the National Associa-
tion of Counties; and Jessica Wahl, Outdoor Recre-
ation Roundtable, Washington, D.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D685
June 18, 2019
TRADE POLICY AGENDA AND THE USMCA
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine the President’s 2019 trade policy agenda
and the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement,
after receiving testimony from Robert E. Lighthizer,
United States Trade Representative.
UKRAINE
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on Eu-
rope and Regional Security Cooperation concluded a
hearing to examine Ukraine’s progress and Russia’s
malign activities five years after the revolution of
dignity, after receiving testimony from Kurt Volker,
Special Representative for Ukraine Negotiations, De-
partment of State; and John E. Herbst, Atlantic
Council Eurasia Center, Alina Polyakova, Brookings
Institution, and James Jay Carafano, Heritage Foun-
dation, all of Washington, D.C.
LOWER HEALTH CARE COSTS ACT
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
Lower Health Care Costs Act, after receiving testi-
mony from Marilyn Bartlett, Office of the Montana
State Auditor, Helena; Sean Cavanaugh, Aledade,
Benedic Ippolito, American Enterprise Institute,
Tom Nickels, American Hospital Association, and
Frederick Isasi, Families USA, all of Washington,
D.C.; and Elizabeth Mitchell, Pacific Business Group
on Health, San Francisco, California.
TERM LIMITS IN THE U.S.
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on the Con-
stitution concluded a hearing to examine keeping
Congress accountable, focusing on term limits in the
United States, after receiving testimony from former
Senator Jim DeMint; Nick Tomboulides, U.S. Term
Limits, Melbourne, Florida; Lynda W. Powell, Uni-
versity of Rochester, Rochester, New York; John
David Rausch, Jr., West Texas A and M University,
Canyon; and Casey Burgat, R Street Institute, Wash-
ington, D.C.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 34 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3298–3331; and 2 resolutions, H.
Res. 446 and 447 were introduced. Pages H4769–71
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H4772–74
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2109, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
in awarding a contract for the procurement of goods
or services, to give a preference to offerors that em-
ploy veterans (H. Rept. 116–117);
H.R. 2196, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to reduce the credit hour requirement for the
Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship program of
the Department of Veterans Affairs (H. Rept.
116–118); and
H. Res. 445, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3055) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes; relating to
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2740) making appro-
priations for the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes; and providing for proceedings
during the period from June 28, 2019, through July
8, 2019 (H. Rept. 116–119). Page H4769
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Beyer to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H4703
Recess: The House recessed at 12:06 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H4704
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 10 a.m. tomorrow, June 19th. Page H4704
Recess: The House recessed at 2:16 p.m. and recon-
vened at 2:45 p.m. Page H4706
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measure:
Empowering Beneficiaries, Ensuring Access, and
Strengthening Accountability Act of 2019: H.R.
3253, amended, to provide for certain extensions
with respect to the Medicaid program under title
XIX of the Social Security Act, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 371 yeas to 46 nays, Roll No. 333.
Pages H4706–10, H4751
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D686 June 18, 2019
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2020: The House considered
H.R. 2740, making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020. Consideration is ex-
pected to resume tomorrow, June 19th.
Pages H4710–32, H4732–38, H4738–50, H4752–55, H4755–67
Agreed to the Visclosky motion that the Com-
mittee rise by a recorded vote of 317 ayes to 82 noes
with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 323.
Pages H4731–32
Agreed to:
González-Colón (PR) amendment (No. 41 printed
in part A of H. Rept. 116–111) that increases and
decreases funding for the Innovative Readiness
Training Program by $4.356 million, for the pur-
pose of supporting DOD’s efforts to produce mis-
sion-ready forces through military training opportu-
nities and simultaneously provide key services for
American communities; Pages H4722–23
Norman amendment (No. 43 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that increases and decreases $15
million from the Weapons Procurement, Navy to
allow for the funding of one Expeditionary Sea Base
Classed ship upgrade pilot program to reduce the
amount of escort missions required to be conducted
by Destroyer class ships; Page H4723
Jackson Lee amendment (No. 79 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June
13th that increases by $1,000,000 and decreases by
$1,000,000 to combat the practice of Female Genital
Mutilation (by a recorded vote of 414 ayes to 6 noes,
Roll No. 325); Page H4733
Jackson Lee amendment (No. 80 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June
13th that increases by $1,000,000 and decreases by
$1,000,000 to combat the trafficking of endangered
species (by a recorded vote of 339 ayes to 79 noes,
Roll No. 326); Pages H4733–34
Grijalva amendment (No. 82 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th
that decreases then increases funding within the
International Border and Water Commission for the
use of taking responsibility for the International
Outfall Interceptor (IOI) (by a recorded vote of 310
ayes to 109 noes, Roll No. 328); Page H4735
Speier amendment (No. 84 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th
that increases by $40 million and decreases by $40
million from Assistance for Europe and Eurasia to
fund Armenian democracy assistance (by a recorded
vote of 268 ayes to 152 noes, Roll No. 330);
Pages H4736–37
Meadows amendment (No. 85 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June
13th that increases assistance withheld from Pakistan
over the imprisonment of Dr. Shakil Afridi from
$33,000,000 to $66,000,000 (by a recorded vote of
387 ayes to 33 noes, Roll No. 331); Page H4737
Lowey en bloc amendment No. 1 that was de-
bated on June 13th consisting of the following
amendments printed in part B of H. Rept. 116–109:
Cohen (No. 86) that prohibits the use of funds to
enter into any new contract, grant, or cooperative
agreement with any Trump related business listed in
the President Trump’s Annual Financial Disclosure
Report submitted to the Office of Government Eth-
ics as well as certain Trump related properties listed
on the Trump Organization’s website; Foster (No.
88) that reduces the NADR account by $10,000,000
and increases the account by the same amount, to be
used for the Synchrotron-Light for Experimental
Science and Applications project in order to promote
scientific diplomacy and peace in the Middle East;
Connolly (No. 90) that prohibits the use of funds for
International Military Education and Training for
Saudi Arabia; Cicilline (No. 95) that prohibits funds
from being used to establish the proposed Depart-
ment of State Commission on Unalienable Rights;
Brendan F. Boyle (PA) (No. 97) that increases by
and decreases by $1.5 million for the International
Fund for Ireland; Panetta (No. 99) that prohibits any
funds from being used to withdraw the United
States from NATO; Krisnamoorthi (No. 100) that
prohibits the use of funds in violation of the Export
Control Act of 2018 (subtitle B of title XVII of
Public Law 115–232); Murphy (No. 101) that pro-
vides that, of the $2,153,763,000 in funds provided
under Title IV, International Security Assistance,
Department of State, Economic Support Fund, fund-
ing made available for programs to promote democ-
racy and the rule of law in Venezuela shall be in-
creased by $3,000,000, from $17,500,000 to
$20,500,000; Espaillat (No. 102) that increases the
appropriated amount to the Caribbean Basin Security
Initiative by $2,000,000; Cox (No. 103) that ensures
continued funding for de-mining projects in
Nagorno-Karabakh, and support for regional reha-
bilitation services for infants, children, and adults
with physical and cognitive disabilities; Cunningham
(No. 104) that increases and then decreases the De-
velopment Assistance account by $5 million to com-
bat illegal, unreported, unregulated fishing in for-
eign waters; Spanberger (No. 105) that increases and
decreases $1 in the Administration of Foreign Affairs
Diplomatic Programs account for the purpose of en-
couraging the Department of State to implement
recommendations of the Government Accountability
Office study GAO–19–220, which found that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D687
June 18, 2019
Foreign Service vacancies at the Department of State
may undermine U.S. foreign policy objectives and
increase national security risks; and Levin (MI) (No.
106) that prohibits the use of funds in this Act for
assistance to Forces Armées d’Haiti (FAdH)—in
English, the Armed Forces of Haiti (by a recorded
vote of 231 ayes to 187 noes, Roll No. 332);
Pages H4737–38
Lowey en bloc amendment No. 1 that was de-
bated on June 13th consisting of the following
amendments printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–111:
Sherman (No. 1) that increases funding for the
United States Agency for Global Media International
Broadcasting Operations account by $1.5 million, to
broadcast Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty in the
Sindhi language in Pakistan, and decreases funding
by $2.1 million in the Capital Investment Fund ac-
count; and Kildee (No. 3) that increases funding by
$500,000 for the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission
to address grass carp (by a recorded vote of 283 ayes
to 144 noes, Roll No. 339); Page H4756
Visclosky en bloc amendment No. 2 consisting of
the following amendments printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–111: Stewart (No. 6) that ensures that
military working dogs are returned to the United
States upon completion of their service to our sol-
diers abroad; Young (No. 7) that reduces the De-
fense Wide Operations and Maintenance Account by
$8,500,000 and increases the Air Force Operations
and Maintenance account by the same amount, for
the ISR Innovation Office to support Mission De-
fense Teams; Smith (NJ) (No. 9) that redirects $2
million from Operations and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide to the Congressionally Directed Medical Re-
search Programs for Tickborne Disease research;
Eshoo (No. 10) that increases and decreases the Re-
search, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force
account by $9.5 million in order to develop flexible
imaging technologies, wearable bio-chemical sensing,
point-of-care in low-resource environments, and en-
route medical technologies to treat wounded
warfighters; Eshoo (No. 11) that increases funding
for Peer-reviewed pancreatic cancer research in the
Department of Defense’s Defense Health Program by
$2 million, offset by a $2 million decrease from De-
fense-wide Operation and Maintenance; Jackson Lee
(No. 12) that increases and decreases the Department
of Defense Military Retirement Fund by $2 million
to provide the Secretary of Defense the flexibility
needed for technical assistance for U.S. military
women to military women in other countries com-
bating violence targeting women and children as a
weapon of war, terrorism, human trafficking, and
narcotics trafficking; Langevin (No. 14) that in-
creases funding for the Spinal Cord Injury Research
Program within the Congressionally Directed Med-
ical Research Programs by $10 million; Graves (MO)
(No. 16) that increases and decreases the Operation
and Maintenance, Defense wide account by $5 mil-
lion in order to reserve $5 million to commemorate
the 75th anniversary of World War II; Moore (No.
17) that increases funding for Air National Guard
Facilities Sustainment, Restoration, and Moderniza-
tion by $2.5 million; Wilson (SC) (No. 18) that pro-
vides $4.8 million to support mitigating musculo-
skeletal injury risk and optimizing bone and muscle
adaptation for military physical training; Walberg
(No. 20) that prohibits any funds under the Defense
Division to be made available for the Taliban;
Schweikert (No. 22) that increasing funding for the
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, De-
fense-Wide by $1 million for the purpose of improv-
ing efforts to research and develop distributed ledger
technologies for defense applications; Carson (IN)
(No. 23) that increases and decreases the Defense-
wide Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
account by $4 million in order to fund DoD’s
HBCU program; will further help facilitate DoD’s
investments in the physical science, mathematics,
and engineering programs at Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities and their corresponding na-
tional security benefits; Barr (No. 26) that increases
funding for Army Reserve Operation and Mainte-
nance, for Army Operation and Maintenance, and for
Army National Guard Operation and Maintenance
by $2 million each to be used for training support,
such as the training of National Guard and Reserve
components by Army in order to improve readiness;
Cicilline (No. 27) that increases funding for the De-
fense Established Program to Stimulate Competitive
Research (DEPSCoR) program by $1.5 million; Din-
gell (No. 28) that provides for an additional $5 mil-
lion for the Fisher House Foundation which is offset
by an outlay neutral reduction in the Operation and
Maintenance, Defense-wide account; Bera (No. 30)
that increases DoD funding to partner nations to
help them prevent, detect, and respond to biological
threats and infectious disease before they come to the
U.S. by $20 million, reducing Defense Wide Oper-
ation and Maintenance by the same amount;
Moulton (No. 31) that increases and decreases the
Navy’s Operation and Maintenance account by $4.3
million in order to restore the United States Sea
Cadet Corps’ funding to historic levels; Moulton
(No. 32) that increases and decreases the Drug Inter-
diction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense ac-
count by $3 million funding in order to restore
funding for the Young Marines to historic levels;
Emmer (No. 35) that allocates an increase of $3 mil-
lion to Defense-wide Demilitarization Systems to de-
velop a feasible waterjet system to defeat a muni-
tion’s chemical, biological, or explosive ordnance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D688 June 18, 2019
without removing the munition in theater, in ac-
cordance with Department of Defense recommenda-
tions; Allen (No. 37) that increases and decreases the
Defense-wide Operation and Maintenance account by
$10 million in order to assist in identifying un-
claimed remains missing since the Korean conflict;
Kildee (No. 42) that increases funding for the Army,
Air Force, and Navy Environmental Restoration
funds by $15 million to clean up PFAS contamina-
tion in and around military bases offset by a $16
million cut to DoD wide Operations and Mainte-
nance; Panetta (No. 46) that increases funding for
Navy research by $8 million to achieve future capa-
bilities to maintain maritime superiority and ensure
national security; Carbajal (No. 48) that increases
funding for more Improved Outer Tactical Vests for
female service members by $5 million; Carbajal (No.
49) that increase RDTE, Army by $4 million to
fund university and industry research centers to pur-
sue research in areas of biotechnology such as ad-
vances in materials, neuroscience, systems, synthetic
biology, nanotechnology and immersive technology;
O’Halleran (No. 52) that increases the Navy Re-
search, Development, Test and Evaluation account
by $5 million in order to fund for Electromagnetic
Systems Applied Research to better enable the Naval
Research Laboratory to fully contribute to the U.S.
Naval Observatory mission in providing the U.S.
Navy and Department of Defense spacial Posi-
tioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT); Brown
(MD) (No. 53) that reduces Navy Operation &
Maintenance Account by $3,000,000 and increases
the Defense Wide Research, Development, Test, and
Evaluation account by $3,000,000 for cyber resil-
iency efforts in the Central Test and Evaluation In-
vestment Program (CTEIP); Brindisi (No. 54) that
increases funding for Research, Development, Test
and Evaluation, Air Force by $5 million for the pur-
pose of improving research and development of
Quantum Information Sciences; Pappas (No. 55) that
supports funding for PFOA/PFOS Study and Anal-
ysis by increasing and decreasing the Defense-wide
Operation and Maintenance account by $2 million;
Pappas (No. 56) that increases funding for the
Army’s Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
account by $2.5 million; Sherrill (No. 57) that In-
creases funding for Defense-wide RDTE by $3 mil-
lion to strengthen efforts to secure science and tech-
nology research; Sherrill (No. 58) that increases and
decreases the Navy Research, Development, Test and
Evaluation account by $5 million in order to support
the certification/qualification process to enable the
Navy to integrate 3–D printed parts more efficiently
into the submarine fleet; and Torres Small (NM)
(No. 62) that increases and decreases funding in the
Defense-wide Operation and Maintenance account by
$5 million in order to support a pilot program to
provide broadband access to military families and
medical facilities on or near remote and isolated
bases (by a recorded vote of 381 ayes to 46 noes,
Roll No. 341); Pages H4710–15, H4757
Langevin amendment (No. 13 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that increases by $10,000,000
the Naval Railgun for common mount development,
decreases by $10,000,000 the Strategic Capabilities
Office (by a recorded vote of 355 ayes to 73 noes,
Roll No. 342); Pages H4715, H4757–58
Langevin amendment (No. 15 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that increases funding by $2
million for civics education grants under the Na-
tional Defense Education Program. Grants will fund
the development and evaluation of civics education
programs at Department of Defense domestic schools
(by a recorded vote of 277 ayes to 151 noes, Roll
No. 343); Pages H4715–16, H4758–59
Brown (MD) amendment (No. 21 printed in part
A of H. Rept. 116–111) that prevents DOD from
spending funds to implement ban on open
transgender service (by a recorded vote of 243 ayes
to 183 noes, Roll No. 344); Pages H4717–18, H4759
Kuster (NH) amendment (No. 34 printed in part
A of H. Rept. 116–111), as modified, that increases
and decreases the defense-wide Research, Develop-
ment, Test and Evaluation account by $5 million in
order to support funding to develop lead-free defense
electronics to ensure the defense industry can inte-
grate cutting edge civilian technology to meet mili-
tary requirements (by a recorded vote of 324 ayes to
101 noes, Roll No. 346); Pages H4720–21, H4760–61
Visclosky amendment (No. 38 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that increases funding for the
Future Vertical Lift Advanced Technologies program
from $16 million to $25 million (by a recorded vote
of 389 ayes to 39 noes, Roll No. 347);
Pages H4721, H4761
Visclosky amendment (No. 40 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that increases and decreases
the Department of Defense Operation and Mainte-
nance, Defense-Wide Fund by $500,000 to provide
funding for additional reporting on the immediate
risks to U.S. national security posed by climate
change and its impacts to the Department and its
ability to defend the nation (by a recorded vote of
254 ayes to 174 noes, Roll No. 348);
Pages H4721–22, H4761–62
Ted Lieu (CA) amendment (No. 44 printed in
part A of H. Rept. 116–111) that prohibits funds
from being used to issue export licenses for any de-
fense article or service as described in 22 enumerated
certification transmittal documents designated by the
Department of State (by a recorded vote of 237 ayes
to 191 noes, Roll No. 349); Pages H4723–24, H4762–63
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D689
June 18, 2019
Blunt Rochester amendment (No. 50 printed in
part A of H. Rept. 116–111) that increases and de-
creases by $1,000,000 Operations & Maintenance,
Defense-wide account which funds the Space-Avail-
able flights program and for the purpose of instruct-
ing the Department to provide Congress with an as-
sessment of possible concerns or issues in expanding
eligibility for the Space-A program to include care-
givers and spouses when accompanying 100% dis-
abled veterans (by a recorded vote of 424 ayes to 3
noes, Roll No. 352); Pages H4726–27, H4764–65
Crow amendment (No. 59 printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–111) that increases and decreases the De-
fense-wide Operation and Maintenance account by
$13 million in order to support the Department of
Defense’s Readiness and Environmental Protection
Integration program (by a recorded vote of 277 ayes
to 151 noes, Roll No. 354); and
Pages H4728–29, H4765–66
Cox (CA) amendment (No. 61 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that reduces funds for the Op-
eration and Maintenance Account, Defense-Wide by
$10 million and increases funds for medical research
concerning traumatic brain injury, posttraumatic
stress disorder, and psychological health by a similar
amount (by a recorded vote of 404 ayes to 22 noes,
Roll No. 355). Pages H4729–30, H4766–67
Rejected:
Lesko amendment (No. 78 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th that
sought to strike the requirement that not less than
$750,000,000 of Global Health Programs shall be
made available for family planning/reproductive
health (by a recorded vote of 188 ayes to 225 noes,
Roll No. 324); Pages H4732–33
Gosar amendment (No. 81 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th
that sought to prohibit the use of funds appropriated
or otherwise made available to any Federal depart-
ment or agency by this Act may be used to make
assessed or voluntary contributions on behalf of the
United States to or for the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change, the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change, or the Green Cli-
mate Fund (by a recorded vote of 174 ayes to 244
noes, Roll No. 327); Pages H4734–35
Gosar amendment (No. 83 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th
that sought to prohibit funds from being used for
the United Nations Framework Convention on Cli-
mate Change (by a recorded vote of 170 ayes to 248
noes, Roll No. 329); Pages H4735–36
Grothman amendment (No. 87 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June
13th that sought to reduce the amount of funding
provided by Division D by 2.1 percent across-the-
board (by a recorded vote of 131 ayes to 292 noes,
Roll No. 334); Page H4752
Walker amendment (No. 89 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th
that sought to eliminate $19.1 billion in funding for
the bi-lateral economic assistance and independent
agency programs within the Department of State (by
a recorded vote of 110 ayes to 315 noes, Roll No.
335); Pages H4752–53
Palmer amendment (No. 91 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th
that sought to strike the paragraph that prevents the
U.S.’ withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement
and strikes the paragraph that allows for payments
for the agreement (by a recorded vote of 184 ayes
to 241 noes, Roll No. 336); Pages H4753–54
Arrington amendment (No. 94 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June
13th that sought to prevent funds from being used
to contribute to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (by a recorded vote
of 174 ayes to 251 noes, Roll No. 337); Page H4754
Banks amendment (No. 98 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–109) that was debated on June 13th
that sought to reduce spending for each amount in
Division D, except those amounts made available to
the Department of Defense, by 14 percent (by a re-
corded vote of 123 ayes to 303 noes, Roll No. 338);
Pages H4754–55
Allen amendment (No. 2 printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–111) that was debated on June 13th that
sought to reduce spending in Division D, State, For-
eign Operations, and Related Agencies, by 1 percent
(by a recorded vote of 134 ayes to 293 noes, Roll
No. 340); Pages H4756–57
Amash amendment (No. 24 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that sought to limit the
warrantless collection of Americans– communications
under section 702 of FISA (by a recorded vote of
175 ayes to 253 noes, Roll No. 345);
Pages H4718–20, H4759–60
Gallagher amendment (No. 45 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that sought to restore $96
million in research and development funds for INF-
range conventional missile systems, offset by cor-
responding reduction to defense-wide operation and
maintenance (by a recorded vote of 203 ayes to 225
noes, Roll No. 350); Pages H4724–25, H4763
Gallagher amendment (No. 47 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that sought to increase fund-
ing for the Weapons Procurement, Navy account by
$19.6 million (by a recorded vote of 192 ayes to 236
noes, Roll No. 351); and Pages H4725–26, H4763–64
Jayapal amendment (No. 51 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that sought to specify that none
of the funds made available by this act may be used
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D690 June 18, 2019
for research on the Long Range Stand Off Weapon
(LRSO) (by a recorded vote of 138 ayes to 239 noes
with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 353).
Pages H4727–28, H4765
Withdrawn:
Lipinski amendment (No. 19 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that was offered and subse-
quently withdrawn that would have increased and
decreased the Research, Development, Test and Eval-
uation, Defense-wide account by $10 million in
order to redirect $10 million within the RDTE ac-
count to be used for the National Security Innova-
tion Network, for the purpose of expanding the
Hacking for Defense course to more universities
across the United States; Pages H4716–17
Dingell amendment (No. 29 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that was offered and subse-
quently withdrawn that would have increased fund-
ing for research, development, test and evaluation by
$20 million for arthritis research within the Con-
gressionally Directed Medical Research Program
(CDMRP); Page H4720
Kuster (NH) amendment (No. 33 printed in part
A of H. Rept. 116–111) that was offered and subse-
quently withdrawn that would have increased fund-
ing to upgrade oxygen life support systems on Ohio
Class submarine by $11,969,000; and Page H4720
Crow amendment (No. 60 printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–111) that was offered and subsequently
withdrawn that would have increased funding
through the Defense Health Program for research for
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) by $20 million.
Page H4729
Proceedings Postponed:
Burgess amendment (No. 63 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that seeks to reduce spending in
Division E by 5 percent; Pages H4738–39
Burgess amendment (No. 64 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that seeks to strike Section 108
in Division E that prohibits any funding being used
for border security infrastructure along the southern
border; Pages H4739–41
Kaptur en bloc amendment No. 3 consisting of
the following amendments printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–111: Wasserman Schultz (No. 65) that
seeks to state that none of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to issue a permit under sec-
tion 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
for the discharge of dredged or fill material from a
project within Water Conservation Areas in the Ev-
erglades; Langevin (No. 71) that seeks to plus and
minus of $5 million within the Defense Nuclear
Nonproliferation account in support of low-enriched
uranium (LEU) research for naval reactors at the
NNSA; Grijalva (No. 73) that seeks to increase Of-
fice of Indian Energy Policy and Program by 2 mil-
lion and decreases Fossil Fuel Research and Develop-
ment by 2.4 million; Castor (FL) (No. 83) that seeks
to none of the funds made available in this Act may
be used to finalize the Department of Energy’s pro-
posed rule to rollback efficiency standards for certain
light bulbs; Bera (No. 88) that seeks to increase and
decrease Reclamation’s Water and Related Resources
Account by $2 million to support the WaterSmart
Program; Brendan F. Boyle (PA) (No. 94) that seeks
to prevent funds from being used to reject any appli-
cation for a grant due to the use of the term ‘‘global
warming’’ or the term ‘‘climate change’’ in the ap-
plication; Omar (No. 105) that seeks to clarify that
the Department of Energy’s Section 1703 Loan Pro-
gram is providing loans only to clean energy projects
that avoid, reduce, or sequester air pollutants or
human-caused emissions of greenhouse gases; Lee
(NV) (No. 106) that seeks to increase funding for
ARPA–E by $3 million and decreases funding for
Department of Energy Departmental Funds $3 mil-
lion; and Garcı́a (No. 108) that seeks to increase
funding for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
(EERE) by $5 million and reduce funding for Fossil
Fuel Research and Development by $5 million;
Pages H4741–43
Kaptur en bloc amendment No. 4 consisting of
the following amendments printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–111: Fleischmann (No. 66) that seeks to
increase and decrease the Weapons Activities account
by $123 million for construction of critical infra-
structure in NNSA; Norton (No. 67) that seeks to
increase and decrease $5 million from the Investiga-
tions fund to instruct USACE to prioritize funding
for the Anacostia Watershed Restoration Program;
Wilson (SC) (No. 68) that seeks to increase and de-
crease by $6.5 million from the Defense Environ-
mental Cleanup account to highlight the Savannah
River Community and Regulatory Support under the
Savannah River Site; Velázquez (No. 69) that seeks
to increase and decrease the Army Corps of Engi-
neers construction projects account by $45,000,000
to support Cano Martin Pena environmental restora-
tion project in San Juan, Puerto Rico and combat
the environmental degradation and persistent flood-
ing that disadvantages communities abutting the
channel, as evidenced by Hurricanes Irma and Maria;
Graves (MO) (No. 70) that moves $4 million from
the Bureau of Reclamation and add $4 million to
the Army Corps funding for investigations; the in-
tent of this amendment is for the $4 million added
to conduct investigations be used to study natural
disasters that occurred in 2019, such as flooding in
the Midwest; Walberg (No. 72) that seeks to in-
crease funding for the office of Cybersecurity, Energy
Security, and Emergency Response (CESER) at the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D691
June 18, 2019
Department of Energy by $3 million to improve cy-
bersecurity and emergency response for the bulk
power system; Richmond (No. 74) that seeks to in-
crease the Army Corps of Engineers Operations and
Maintenance accounts by $4,000,000 and decrease
the Administration Expenses account by the same
amount; Richmond (No. 75) that seeks to increase
and decrease funding to the Army Corps of Engi-
neers Operation and Maintenance Accounts by
$75,000,000 for dredging activities; Richmond (No.
76) that seeks to provide $5 million for construction
projects under the Army Corps of Engineers for the
construction of Louisiana Coastal Area Beneficial Use
of Dredged Material restoration projects with an off-
set from Corps of Engineers expenses; Lipinski (No.
77) that seeks to redirect $15,000,000 within the
Department of Energy Office of Science account to-
wards the Argonne Leadership Computing Facility;
McKinley (No. 78) that seeks to transfer $3 million
from the Departmental Administration account to
the Fossil Energy Research and Development ac-
count; Loebsack (No. 79) that seeks to increase and
then reduce the Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy account by $5,000,000 with the intent of
supporting the advancement of distributed wind
technologies and research; Welch (No. 81) that seeks
to increase and decrease by $40 million funding
within the Army Corps Construction account (Divi-
sion E) to fund dam rehabilitation work authorized
by Section 3202 of the 2018 America’s Water Infra-
structure Act; Kuster (NH) (No. 82) that seeks to
increase funding to the Northern Border Regional
Commission, a rural economic development agency
that supports job creation efforts and infrastructure
projects in economically distressed rural commu-
nities; Perry (No. 84) that seeks to decrease funding
for departmental administration by $2 million and
increase money for the Water Power Technologies
Office within the Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy Program by the same amount; Foster (No.
85) that seeks to add and remove a dollar from this
account for the purpose of instructing the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to
include a review of accelerator driven systems in its
evaluation of the merits and viability of different nu-
clear fuel cycles and technology options, including
both existing and future technologies; Hudson (No.
86) that seeks to increase and decrease
$1,317,808,000 from the Department of Energy’s
Office of Nuclear Energy for the purpose of creating
a pilot program to provide energy resilience to De-
partment of Defense and Department of Energy fa-
cilities by contracting with a commercial entity to
site, construct, and operate a micro-reactor; Bera
(No. 87) that seeks to increase funding for the Na-
tional Levee Safety Inventory; Ruiz (No. 92) that
seeks to increase and decrease by $2 million within
the Water and Related Resources Account in order
to support projects with a public health benefit;
Rouzer (No. 93) that seeks to decrease funding for
the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Civil Works by $2,000,000 and increase funding for
the Army Corps of Engineers Operations and Main-
tenance account by the same amount to carry out
Section 1149 of the WIIN Act (Public Law
114–322); Estes (No. 95) that seeks to add and re-
move five million to highlight the importance of
properly funding Bureau of Reclamation ground
water restoration projects; Plaskett (No. 98) that
seeks to increase and decrease the Army Corps of En-
gineers construction projects account by $100 mil-
lion to support projects related to flood and storm
damage reduction; Cloud (No. 99) that seeks to
transfer $3 million from the DOE Departmental Ad-
ministration account to Nuclear Energy Research
and Development account; Cloud (No. 100) that
seeks to transfer $3 million from DOE Departmental
Administration account to Fossil Energy Research
and Development account; Blunt Rochester (No.
101) that seeks to add and remove $1 million from
the Army Corps of Engineers Investigations account
for the purpose of instructing the Army Corps of
Engineers to review all existing projects for which
they are in arrears with project partners across the
country, such as the Indian River Inlet project in
Delaware; Lamb (No. 102) that seeks to reduce and
increase funding to the Office of Nuclear Energy by
$1 million to emphasize the importance of research
into increasing the cost effectiveness and efficiency of
the domestic commercial nuclear fleet; O’Halleran
(No. 104) that seeks to increase the Department of
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Account by
$1 million to support the Solar Ready Vets Program;
Rouda (No. 107) that seeks to add and remove $5
million from the Corps of Engineers construction ac-
count for the purpose of highlighting the need to re-
authorize Section 1043 of the Water Resources Re-
form and Development Act of 2014 and to include
necessary changes to the pilot program in its reau-
thorization; Levin (CA) (No. 109) that seeks to pro-
vide funding for the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission to finalize its rulemaking on aggregated
distributed energy resource participation in wholesale
energy markets; Craig (No. 110) that seeks to in-
crease by $1 million the funding for the Army Corps
of Engineers Investigations Account intended to be
directed towards the National Flood Risk Manage-
ment and Flood Damage data Programs to address
flood planning for disaster prone regions; increase by
$1 million the funding for the Army Corps of Engi-
neers Operations and Maintenance account intended
to be directed towards the Corps Water Management
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D692 June 18, 2019
System (CWMS) to assist river flow tracking during
flooding; Craig (No. 111) that seeks to increase and
decrease by $7.5 million for the Beneficial Use of
Dredged Material Pilot Program for the Army Corps
of Engineers; McAdams (No. 112) that seeks to in-
crease funds by $5 million to the Central Utah
Project Completion Act account for the purposes of
completing water project development and decrease
funding by $4 million from the Bureau of Reclama-
tion administrative account and decrease funding by
$2 million from the Policy and Administration ac-
count; and Levin (MI) (No. 113) that seeks to in-
crease and decrease funding for construction of cer-
tain river, harbor, flood and storm damage and re-
lated projects by $30 million in order to prioritize
$30 million in funding for ongoing efforts to im-
prove water quality in Lake St. Clair, Michigan, in-
cluding by improving the Chapaton Retention
Basin, a Macomb County Combined Sewer Overflow
System; Pages H4743–45
Mullin amendment (No. 89 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that seeks to prohibit the use of
funds to prepare, propose, or promulgate any regula-
tion or guidance that references or relies on analysis
of the cost of social carbon under certain Technical
Support Documents published by the Interagency
Working Group on Social Cost of Carbon;
Pages H4745–46
Huffman amendment (No. 90 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–111) that seeks to state that none
of the funds in this act can be used for the Army
Corps of Engineers to finalize the environmental im-
pact statement for the proposed Pebble Mine project;
Pages H4746–48
Graves (LA) amendment (No. 91 printed in part
A of H. Rept. 116–111) that seeks to strike section
106 of division E, which states that none of the
funds made available by this Act may be used to re-
organize or to transfer the Civil Works functions or
authority of the Corps of Engineers or the Secretary
of the Army to another department or agency; and
Pages H4748–50
Banks amendment (No. 97 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–111) that seeks to reduce spending for
each amount in Division E, except those amounts
made available to the Department of Defense, by 14
percent. Page H4750
Res. 431, the rule providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 2740) and the resolution (H. Res.
430) was agreed to Tuesday, June 11th.
H. Res. 436, the rule providing for further con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 2740) was agreed to
Wednesday, June 12th.
Recess: The House recessed at 11:24 p.m. and re-
convened at 1:09 a.m. on Wednesday, June 19,
2019. Page H4767
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 10 a.m. tomorrow, June 19th for Morning Hour
debate. Page H4768
Consensus Calendar: Representative Lofgren pre-
sented to the clerk a motion to place on the Con-
sensus Calendar the bill H.R. 1044, to amend the
Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the
per-country numerical limitation for employment-
based immigrants, to increase the per-country nu-
merical limitation for family-sponsored immigrants,
it having accumulated 290 cosponsors. Page H4769
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency declared with respect to the West-
ern Balkans is to continue in effect beyond June 26,
2019—referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–41).
Pages H4705–06
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H4705.
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
thirty-two recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H4731–32,
H4732–33, H4733, H4733–34, H4734–35, H4735,
H4735–36, H4736–37, H4737, H4737–38, H4751,
H4752, H4752–53, H4753–54, H4754, H4754–55,
H4756, H4756–57, H4757, H4757–58, H4758–59,
H4759, H4759–60, H4760–61, H4761, H4761–62,
H4762–63, H4763, H4763–64, H4764–65, H4765,
H4765–66, and H4766–67. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 1:11 a.m. on Wednesday, June 19, 2019.
Committee Meetings
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND
RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 3055, the ‘‘Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020’’ [Com-
merce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, Interior, En-
vironment, Military Construction, Veterans Affairs,
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Appropriations Act, 2020]. The Committee
granted, by record vote of 8–4, a structured rule
providing for consideration of H.R. 3055, the ‘‘Com-
merce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, Interior, En-
vironment, Military Construction, Veterans Affairs,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D693
June 18, 2019
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Appropriations Act, 2020’’. The rule provides
one hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Appropriations. The rule
waives all points of order against consideration of the
bill. The rule provides that an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–18, modified by the amend-
ment printed in Part A of the report, shall be con-
sidered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be
considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill, as amended, for
failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI. The
rule provides that clause 2(e) of rule XXI shall not
apply during consideration of the bill. The rule
makes in order only those further amendments print-
ed in Part B of the Rules Committee report not con-
sidered as part of amendments en bloc, amendments
en bloc described in section 3, and pro forma
amendments described in section 4. Each amend-
ment printed in the report not considered as part of
amendments en bloc may be offered only in the
order printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be consid-
ered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified
in the report equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, may be withdrawn by
the proponent at any time before action thereon,
shall not be subject to amendment except as pro-
vided by Section 4, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question. The rule waives
all points of order against the amendments printed
in Part B of the report or against amendments en
bloc described in section 3. The rule provides that
the chair of the Committee on Appropriations or her
designee may offer amendments en bloc consisting of
amendments printed in the report not earlier dis-
posed of. Amendments en bloc shall be considered as
read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Appropriations
or their designees, shall not be subject to amend-
ment except as provided by section 4, and shall not
be subject to a demand for division of the question.
The rule provides that the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on Appropriations or
their designees may offer up to 15 pro forma amend-
ments each at any point for the purpose of debate.
The rule provides that at the conclusion of consider-
ation of the bill for amendment the Committee shall
rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House
with such further amendments as may have been
adopted. The question of such further amendments’
adoption shall be put to the House en gros and
without division of the question. The rule provides
one motion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions. The rule provides that during consideration of
H.R. 3055, it shall not be in order to use a decrease
in Overseas Contingency Operations funds to offset
an amendment that increases an appropriation not
designated as Overseas Contingency Operations
funds or vice versa. This does not apply to amend-
ments between the Houses. The rule provides that
during the further consideration of H.R. 2740, the
amendment printed in part C of the Rules Com-
mittee report shall be considered as adopted in the
House and in the Committee of the Whole. The
question of the adoption of further amendments to
H.R. 2740 reported from the Committee of the
Whole shall be put to the House en gros and with-
out division of the question. The rule provides that
during consideration of H.R. 3055 or during the
further consideration of H.R. 2740, the Chair may
entertain a motion that the Committee rise only if
offered by the chair of the Committee on Appropria-
tions or her designee. The Chair may not entertain
a motion to strike out the enacting words of the bill.
The rule provides that on any legislative day during
the period from June 28, 2019, through July 8,
2019: the Journal of the proceedings of the previous
day shall be considered as approved; and the Chair
may at any time declare the House adjourned to
meet at a date and time to be announced by the
Chair in declaring the adjournment. The rule pro-
vides that the Speaker may appoint Members to per-
form the duties of the Chair for the duration of the
period addressed by section 9 of the resolution. The
rule provides that each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 9 of the resolution shall not con-
stitute a legislative day for the purposes of clause 7
of rule XV. The rule provides for consideration of
concurrent resolutions providing for adjournment
during the month of July, 2019. The rule provides
that it shall be in order at any time on the legisla-
tive day of June 27, 2019, for the Speaker to enter-
tain motions that the House suspend the rules as
though under clause 1 of rule XV, and that the
Speaker or her designee shall consult with the Mi-
nority Leader or his designee on the designation of
any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
Testimony was heard from Representatives Serrano,
Aderholt, Price of North Carolina, Diaz-Balart,
Bishop of Georgia, Fortenberry, McCollum, Joyce of
Ohio, Wasserman Schultz, Carter of Texas, Allen,
Balderson, Barr, Gianforte, Sablan, Grothman,
Schneider, Lesko, Pence, Rutherford, Schweikert, and
Stauber.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D694 June 18, 2019
Joint Meetings
NON-ASYLUM PROTECTION
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: On
Friday, June 14, 2019, Commission received a brief-
ing on non-asylum protection in the United States
and the European Union from Jill H. Wilson, Ana-
lyst in Immigration Policy, Congressional Research
Service, Library of Congress; Sui Chung, Immigra-
tion Law and Litigation Group, on behalf of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, and
Marleine Bastien, Haitian Women of Miami, Inc.,
both of Miami, Florida; and Catherine Woollard, Eu-
ropean Council on Refugees and Exiles, Brussels,
Belgium.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JUNE 19, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: business meeting to markup
an original bill entitled, ‘‘Emergency Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at
the Southern Border, 2019’’, 10:30 a.m., SD–106.
Committee on Armed Services: with the Committee on
Foreign Relations, to receive a closed joint briefing on
Iran’s recent escalation and United States policy re-
sponses, 2 p.m., SVC–217.
Committee on the Budget: to hold hearings to examine
fixing a broken budget process, focusing on lessons from
states, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act reauthorization, focusing on transpor-
tation and safety issues, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee
on National Parks, to hold hearings to examine S. 225,
to provide for partnerships among State and local govern-
ments, regional entities, and the private sector to pre-
serve, conserve, and enhance the visitor experience at na-
tionally significant battlefields of the American Revolu-
tion, War of 1812, and Civil War, S. 298, to establish
the Springfield Race Riot National Historic Monument
in the State of Illinois, S. 327, to amend the Federal
Lands Recreation Enhancement Act to provide for a life-
time National Recreational Pass for any veteran with a
service-connected disability, S. 389, to authorize the Soci-
ety of the First Infantry Division to make modifications
to the First Division Monument located on Federal land
in Presidential Park in the District of Columbia, S. 641,
to update the map of, and modify the maximum acreage
available for inclusion in, the Yucca House National
Monument, S. 774, to adjust the boundary of the Santa
Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include
the Rim of the Valley Corridor, S. 849, to provide for
the inclusion on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall of
the names of the lost crew members of the U.S.S. Frank
E. Evans killed on June 3, 1969, S. 1152, to provide for
the transfer of administrative jurisdiction over certain par-
cels of Federal land in Arlington, Virginia, S. 1582, to
establish the White Sands National Park in the State of
New Mexico as a unit of the National Park System, and
S. 1705, to authorize the Every Word We Utter Monu-
ment to establish a commemorative work in the District
of Columbia and its environs, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: business
meeting to consider S. 1345, to amend and reauthorize
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation
Act, S. 1833, to transfer a bridge over the Wabash River
to the New Harmony River Bridge Authority and the
New Harmony and Wabash River Bridge Authority, S.
1014, to establish the Route 66 Centennial Commission,
S. 349, to require the Secretary of Transportation to re-
quest nominations for, and make determinations regard-
ing, roads to be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, S. 1507, to include certain perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the toxics release inven-
tory, S. 1689, to permit States to transfer certain funds
from the clean water revolving fund of a State to the
drinking water revolving fund of the State in certain cir-
cumstances, and the nominations of Robert Wallace, of
Wyoming, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wild-
life, Department of the Interior, and William B.
Kilbride, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
the Tennessee Valley Authority, and 41 General Services
Administration resolutions, 9:30 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be
the Representative of the United States of America to the
United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador
and the Representative of the United States of America
in the Security Council of the United Nations, and to be
Representative of the United States of America to the
Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations
during her tenure of service as Representative of the
United States of America to the United Nations, 10:15
a.m., SD–419.
Full Committee, with the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, to receive a closed joint briefing on Iran’s recent es-
calation and United States policy responses, 2 p.m.,
SVC–217.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
business meeting to consider S. 1867, to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish in the De-
partment of Homeland Security an Unmanned Aircraft
Systems Coordinator, S. 1877, to establish procedures and
consequences in the event of a failure to complete regular
appropriations, S. 1869, to require the disclosure of own-
ership of high-security space leased to accommodate a
Federal agency, S. 1539, to amend the Homeland Secu-
rity Act of 2002 to provide funding to secure nonprofit
facilities from terrorist attacks, S. 1419, to require agen-
cies to publish an advance notice of proposed rule making
for major rules, S. 1151, to prohibit contracting with
persons that have business operations with the Maduro re-
gime, S. 1521, to amend section 327 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to
clarify that National Urban Search and Rescue Response
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D695
June 18, 2019
System task forces may include Federal employees, S.
1004, to increase the number of U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection Office of Field Operations officers and sup-
port staff and to require reports that identify staffing, in-
frastructure, and equipment needed to enhance security at
ports of entry, S. 1846, to amend the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 to provide for engagements with State, local,
Tribal, and territorial governments, S. 1874, to amend
title 40, United States Code, to require the Administrator
of General Services to procure the most life-cycle cost ef-
fective and energy efficiency lighting products and to
issue guidance on the efficiency, effectiveness, and econ-
omy of those products, S. 764, to provide for congres-
sional approval of national emergency declarations, S.
979, to amend the Post-Katrina Emergency Management
Reform Act of 2006 to incorporate the recommendations
made by the Government Accountability Office relating
to advance contracts, S. 731, to amend the Anti-Border
Corruption Act of 2010 to authorize certain polygraph
waiver authority, S. 734, to leverage Federal Government
procurement power to encourage increased cybersecurity
for Internet of Things devices, S. 1272, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at 575
Dexter Street in Central Falls, Rhode Island, as the ‘‘Eliz-
abeth Buffum Chace Post Office’’, S. 1759, to designate
the facility of the United States Postal Service located at
456 North Meridian Street in Indianapolis, Indiana, as
the ‘‘Richard G. Lugar Post Office Building’’, H.R. 150,
to modernize Federal grant reporting, H.R. 1198, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 404 South Boulder Highway in Henderson, Ne-
vada, as the ‘‘Henderson Veterans Memorial Post Office
Building’’, H.R. 1449, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 3033 203rd Street
in Olympia Fields, Illinois, as the ‘‘Captain Robert L.
Martin Post Office’’, and the nominations of Chad F.
Wolf, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Strategy,
Policy, and Plans, Jeffrey Byard, of Alabama, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, and Troy D. Edgar, of California, to be Chief Finan-
cial Officer, all of the Department of Homeland Security,
John McLeod Barger, of California, to be a Governor of
the United States Postal Service, and B. Chad Bungard,
of Maryland, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Pro-
tection Board, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: business meeting to con-
sider S. 1211, to provide for improvements to Tribal
transportation facilities and Tribal transportation safety,
and H.R. 1388, to take lands in Sonoma County, Cali-
fornia, into trust as part of the reservation of the Lytton
Rancheria of California; to be immediately followed by a
hearing to examine S. 227, to direct the Attorney General
to review, revise, and develop law enforcement and justice
protocols appropriate to address missing and murdered
Indians, S. 288, to amend the Indian Civil Rights Act
of 1968 to extend the jurisdiction of tribal courts to
cover crimes involving sexual violence, S. 290, to protect
Native children and promote public safety in Indian
country, S. 982, to increase intergovernmental coordina-
tion to identify and combat violent crime within Indian
lands and of Indians, and S. 1853, to require Federal law
enforcement agencies to report on cases of missing or
murdered Indians, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
combating kleptocracy, focusing on beneficial ownership,
money laundering, and other reforms, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: to hold
hearings to examine the Small Business Administration’s
Office of Disaster Assistance and the response to recent
catastrophic floods, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold hearings to exam-
ine leveraging veteran networks to tackle suicide, focus-
ing on harnessing the power of community, 2:30 p.m.,
SR–418.
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine
the complex web of prescription drug prices, focusing on
examining agency efforts to further competition and in-
crease affordability, 9 a.m., SD–562.
House
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Poverty in America: Economic Realities of Strug-
gling Families’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Innovation to Improve Equity: Exploring
High-Quality Pathways to a College Degree’’, 10:15 a.m.,
2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting
Title X and Safeguarding Quality Family Planning Care’’,
10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘Legislative
Solutions to Make Our Nation’s Pipelines Safer’’, 10:30
a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Security, International Development, and Monetary
Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting Economic Growth:
The Impact of Recent Trade Policies on the U.S. Econ-
omy’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneur-
ship, and Capital Markets, hearing entitled ‘‘Putting In-
vestors First: Examining Proposals to Strengthen Enforce-
ment Against Securities Law Violators’’, 2 p.m., 2128
Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the Mid-
dle East, North Africa, and International Terrorism, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Trump Administration’s
Iran Policy’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, mark-
up on H.R. 3256, the ‘‘Protecting and Securing Chemical
Facilities from Terrorist Attacks Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m.,
310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on the Con-
stitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘H.R. 40 and the Path to Restorative Justice’’, 10
a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 182, to extend the authorization for the Cape
Cod National Seashore Advisory Commission; H.R. 205,
the ‘‘Protecting and Securing Florida’s Coastline Act of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D696 June 18, 2019
2019’’; H.R. 759, the ‘‘Ysleta del Sur Pueblo and Ala-
bama-Coushatta Tribes of Texas Equal and Fair Oppor-
tunity Settlement Act’’; H.R. 1088, the ‘‘First Infantry
Recognition of Sacrifice in Theater Act’’; H.R. 1225, the
‘‘Restore Our Parks and Public Lands Act’’; H.R. 1305,
the ‘‘Albatross and Petrel Conservation Act’’; H.R. 1365,
to make technical corrections to the Guam World War
II Loyalty Recognition Act; H.R. 1941, the ‘‘Coastal and
Marine Economies Protection Act’’; H.R. 2427, the
‘‘Chesapeake Bay Gateways and Watertrails Network Re-
authorization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2490, to amend the
National Trails System Act to direct the Secretary of the
Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of desig-
nating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail,
and for other purposes; H.R. 3195, the ‘‘Land and Water
Conservation Fund Permanent Funding Act’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Medical Experts: Inadequate Federal
Approach to Opioid Treatment and the Need to Expand
Care’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
3055, the ‘‘Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020’’ [Commerce, Justice,
Science, Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, Interior, Environment, Military Con-
struction, Veterans Affairs, Transportation, and Housing
and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2020], 3
p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘Fossil Energy Research: Ena-
bling our Clean Energy Future’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Unlocked Potential? Small Businesses in the
Cannabis Industry’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Aviation, hearing entitled ‘‘Status of the
Boeing 737 MAX: Stakeholder Perspectives’’, 10 a.m.,
2167 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transpor-
tation, hearing entitled ‘‘Short Sea Shipping: Rebuilding
America’s Maritime Industry’’, 2 p.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Mid-Se-
mester School Closures Impact on Student Veterans Mis-
sion Readiness: VA’s Emergency Response and Cache
Program’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Mission
Readiness: VA’s Emergency Response and Cache Pro-
gram’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The 2019 Trade Policy Agenda: Negotiations
with China, Japan, the EU, and UK; new NAFTA/
USMCA; U.S. Participation in the WTO; and other mat-
ters’’, 9:30 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to re-
ceive a briefing on international election observation in
the United States and beyond, 10 a.m., 2200, Rayburn
Building.
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of June 19 through June 21, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Wednesday, Senate will resume consideration of
the nomination of Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas, post-cloture.
At 3:30 p.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of
the nominations of Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas, Allen Cothrel Winsor, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Florida, James David Cain, Jr., to be United States
District Judge for the Western District of Louisiana,
and Greg Gerard Guidry, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
Following disposition of the nomination of Greg
Gerard Guidry, Senate will vote on the motion to
invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to S. 1790,
National Defense Authorization Act.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: June 20,
Subcommittee on Livestock, Marketing, and Agriculture
Security, to hold closed hearings to examine certain intel-
ligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
Committee on Appropriations: June 19, business meeting
to markup an original bill entitled, ‘‘Emergency Supple-
mental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assistance and
Security at the Southern Border, 2019’’, 10:30 a.m.,
SD–106.
Committee on Armed Services: June 19, with the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, to receive a closed joint
briefing on Iran’s recent escalation and United States pol-
icy responses, 2 p.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: June
20, to hold hearings to examine outside perspectives on
the collection of beneficial ownership information, 10
a.m., SD–538.
Committee on the Budget: June 19, to hold hearings to
examine fixing a broken budget process, focusing on les-
sons from states, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: June
19, to hold hearings to examine the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act reauthorization, focusing on
transportation and safety issues, 10 a.m., SH–216.
June 20, Subcommittee on Manufacturing, Trade, and
Consumer Protection, to hold an oversight hearing to ex-
amine the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 10:30
a.m., SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: June 19, Sub-
committee on National Parks, to hold hearings to exam-
ine S. 225, to provide for partnerships among State and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D697
June 18, 2019
local governments, regional entities, and the private sec-
tor to preserve, conserve, and enhance the visitor experi-
ence at nationally significant battlefields of the American
Revolution, War of 1812, and Civil War, S. 298, to es-
tablish the Springfield Race Riot National Historic
Monument in the State of Illinois, S. 327, to amend the
Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act to provide for
a lifetime National Recreational Pass for any veteran with
a service-connected disability, S. 389, to authorize the So-
ciety of the First Infantry Division to make modifications
to the First Division Monument located on Federal land
in Presidential Park in the District of Columbia, S. 641,
to update the map of, and modify the maximum acreage
available for inclusion in, the Yucca House National
Monument, S. 774, to adjust the boundary of the Santa
Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include
the Rim of the Valley Corridor, S. 849, to provide for
the inclusion on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall of
the names of the lost crew members of the U.S.S. Frank
E. Evans killed on June 3, 1969, S. 1152, to provide for
the transfer of administrative jurisdiction over certain par-
cels of Federal land in Arlington, Virginia, S. 1582, to
establish the White Sands National Park in the State of
New Mexico as a unit of the National Park System, and
S. 1705, to authorize the Every Word We Utter Monu-
ment to establish a commemorative work in the District
of Columbia and its environs, 10 a.m., SD–366.
June 20, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
the nomination of Robert Wallace, of Wyoming, to be
Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, Department of
the Interior, 9:45 a.m., SD–366.
June 20, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
opportunities and challenges for advanced geothermal en-
ergy development in the United States, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: June 19,
business meeting to consider S. 1345, to amend and reau-
thorize the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Founda-
tion Act, S. 1833, to transfer a bridge over the Wabash
River to the New Harmony River Bridge Authority and
the New Harmony and Wabash River Bridge Authority,
S. 1014, to establish the Route 66 Centennial Commis-
sion, S. 349, to require the Secretary of Transportation to
request nominations for, and make determinations regard-
ing, roads to be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, S. 1507, to include certain perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the toxics release inven-
tory, S. 1689, to permit States to transfer certain funds
from the clean water revolving fund of a State to the
drinking water revolving fund of the State in certain cir-
cumstances, and the nominations of Robert Wallace, of
Wyoming, to be Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wild-
life, Department of the Interior, and William B.
Kilbride, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
the Tennessee Valley Authority, and 41 General Services
Administration resolutions, 9:30 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: June 19, to hold hearings
to examine the nominations of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky,
to be the Representative of the United States of America
to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Am-
bassador and the Representative of the United States of
America in the Security Council of the United Nations,
and to be Representative of the United States of America
to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United
Nations during her tenure of service as Representative of
the United States of America to the United Nations,
10:15 a.m., SD–419.
June 19, Full Committee, with the Committee on
Armed Services, to receive a closed joint briefing on
Iran’s recent escalation and United States policy re-
sponses, 2 p.m., SVC–217.
June 20, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to
be Representative of the United States of America to the
Office of the United Nations and Other International Or-
ganizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador,
Philip S. Goldberg, of the District of Columbia, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Colombia, Doug Man-
chester, of California, to be Ambassador to the Common-
wealth of The Bahamas, Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jer-
sey, to be Ambassador to Romania, Richard B. Norland,
of Iowa, to be Ambassador to Libya, Jonathan R. Cohen,
of California, to be Ambassador to the Arab Republic of
Egypt, and John Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambas-
sador to the United Arab Emirates, all of the Department
of State, and other pending nominations, 9:45 a.m.,
SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
June 19, business meeting to consider S. 1867, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish in the
Department of Homeland Security an Unmanned Aircraft
Systems Coordinator, S. 1877, to establish procedures and
consequences in the event of a failure to complete regular
appropriations, S. 1869, to require the disclosure of own-
ership of high-security space leased to accommodate a
Federal agency, S. 1539, to amend the Homeland Secu-
rity Act of 2002 to provide funding to secure nonprofit
facilities from terrorist attacks, S. 1419, to require agen-
cies to publish an advance notice of proposed rule making
for major rules, S. 1151, to prohibit contracting with
persons that have business operations with the Maduro re-
gime, S. 1521, to amend section 327 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to
clarify that National Urban Search and Rescue Response
System task forces may include Federal employees, S.
1004, to increase the number of U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection Office of Field Operations officers and sup-
port staff and to require reports that identify staffing, in-
frastructure, and equipment needed to enhance security at
ports of entry, S. 1846, to amend the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 to provide for engagements with State, local,
Tribal, and territorial governments, S. 1874, to amend
title 40, United States Code, to require the Administrator
of General Services to procure the most life-cycle cost ef-
fective and energy efficiency lighting products and to
issue guidance on the efficiency, effectiveness, and econ-
omy of those products, S. 764, to provide for congres-
sional approval of national emergency declarations, S.
979, to amend the Post-Katrina Emergency Management
Reform Act of 2006 to incorporate the recommendations
made by the Government Accountability Office relating
to advance contracts, S. 731, to amend the Anti-Border
Corruption Act of 2010 to authorize certain polygraph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D698 June 18, 2019
waiver authority, S. 734, to leverage Federal Government
procurement power to encourage increased cybersecurity
for Internet of Things devices, S. 1272, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at 575
Dexter Street in Central Falls, Rhode Island, as the ‘‘Eliz-
abeth Buffum Chace Post Office’’, S. 1759, to designate
the facility of the United States Postal Service located at
456 North Meridian Street in Indianapolis, Indiana, as
the ‘‘Richard G. Lugar Post Office Building’’, H.R. 150,
to modernize Federal grant reporting, H.R. 1198, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 404 South Boulder Highway in Henderson, Ne-
vada, as the ‘‘Henderson Veterans Memorial Post Office
Building’’, H.R. 1449, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 3033 203rd Street
in Olympia Fields, Illinois, as the ‘‘Captain Robert L.
Martin Post Office’’, and the nominations of Chad F.
Wolf, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Strategy,
Policy, and Plans, Jeffrey Byard, of Alabama, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, and Troy D. Edgar, of California, to be Chief Finan-
cial Officer, all of the Department of Homeland Security,
John McLeod Barger, of California, to be a Governor of
the United States Postal Service, and B. Chad Bungard,
of Maryland, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Pro-
tection Board, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: June 19, business meeting
to consider S. 1211, to provide for improvements to Trib-
al transportation facilities and Tribal transportation safe-
ty, and H.R. 1388, to take lands in Sonoma County,
California, into trust as part of the reservation of the
Lytton Rancheria of California; to be immediately fol-
lowed by a hearing to examine S. 227, to direct the At-
torney General to review, revise, and develop law enforce-
ment and justice protocols appropriate to address missing
and murdered Indians, S. 288, to amend the Indian Civil
Rights Act of 1968 to extend the jurisdiction of tribal
courts to cover crimes involving sexual violence, S. 290,
to protect Native children and promote public safety in
Indian country, S. 982, to increase intergovernmental co-
ordination to identify and combat violent crime within
Indian lands and of Indians, and S. 1853, to require Fed-
eral law enforcement agencies to report on cases of miss-
ing or murdered Indians, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: June 19, to hold hearings to
examine combating kleptocracy, focusing on beneficial
ownership, money laundering, and other reforms, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
June 20, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
S. 1494, to amend the William Wilberforce Trafficking
Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 to pro-
tect alien minors and to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to end abuse of the asylum system and es-
tablish refugee application and processing centers outside
the United States, S. 1227, to require the Federal Trade
Commission to study the role of intermediaries in the
pharmaceutical supply chain and provide Congress with
appropriate policy recommendations, S. 440, to amend
title 35, United States Code, to provide that a patent
owner may not assert sovereign immunity as a defense in
certain actions before the United States Patent and Trade-
mark Office, S. 1224, to enable the Federal Trade Com-
mission to deter filing of sham citizen petitions to cover
an attempt to interfere with approval of a competing ge-
neric drug or biosimilar, to foster competition, and facili-
tate the efficient review of petitions filed in good faith
to raise legitimate public health concerns, S. 1416, to
amend the Federal Trade Commission Act to prohibit
anticompetitive behaviors by drug product manufacturers,
and the nominations of Daniel Aaron Bress, of California,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
Peter Joseph Phipps, of Pennsylvania, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, Mary S. McElroy, to
be United States District Judge for the District of Rhode
Island, Gary Richard Brown, Diane Gujarati, Eric Ross
Komitee, and Rachel P. Kovner, each to be a United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of New
York, Stephanie Dawkins Davis, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, Steph-
anie A. Gallagher, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Maryland, Charles R. Eskridge III, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern District of
Texas, Lewis J. Liman, and Mary Kay Vyskocil, both to
be a United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of New York, Martha Maria Pacold, Mary M. Row-
land, and Steven C. Seeger, each to be a United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, Jason
K. Pulliam, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Texas, John L. Sinatra, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the Western District of
New York, William Shaw Stickman IV, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsyl-
vania, Frank William Volk, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of West Virginia, Jen-
nifer Philpott Wilson, to be United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, David Austin
Tapp, of Kentucky, to be a Judge of the United States
Court of Federal Claims, and Edward W. Felten, of New
Jersey, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties
Oversight Board, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: June
19, to hold hearings to examine the Small Business Ad-
ministration’s Office of Disaster Assistance and the re-
sponse to recent catastrophic floods, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: June 19, to hold hearings
to examine leveraging veteran networks to tackle suicide,
focusing on harnessing the power of community, 2:30
p.m., SR–418.
Select Committee on Intelligence: June 20, to hold closed
hearings to examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: June 19, to hold hearings to
examine the complex web of prescription drug prices, fo-
cusing on examining agency efforts to further competition
and increase affordability, 9 a.m., SD–562.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, June 20, Subcommittee on
General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘How Farm Policy Helps Farmers in Adverse
Conditions’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
June 20, Subcommittee on Nutrition, Oversight, and
Department Operations, hearing entitled ‘‘The Potential
Implications of Eliminating Broad-Based Categorical Eli-
gibility for SNAP Households’’, 2 p.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Education and Labor, June 20, Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections, hearing entitled
‘‘Breathless and Betrayed: What is MSHA Doing to Pro-
tect Miners from the Resurgence of Black Lung Dis-
ease?’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D699
June 18, 2019
Committee on Energy and Commerce, June 20, Sub-
committee on Consumer Protection and Commerce; and
Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change,
joint hearing entitled ‘‘Driving in Reverse: The Adminis-
tration’s Rollback of Fuel Economy and Clean Car Stand-
ards’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
June 20, Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled
‘‘Strengthening Health Care in the U.S. Territories for
Today and Into the Future’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, June 20, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Diversity in the Boardroom; Ex-
amining Proposals to Increase the Diversity of America’s
Boards’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
June 20, Subcommittee on Housing, Community De-
velopment, and Insurance, hearing entitled ‘‘What’s Your
Home Worth? A Review of the Appraisal Industry’’, 2
p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, June 20, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 3190, the ‘‘BURMA Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2327, the ‘‘Burma Political Prisoners Assistance
Act’’; H.R. 1632, the ‘‘Southeast Asia Strategy Act’’;
H.R. 3194, the ‘‘NATO Defense Financing Act’’; H.R.
3206, to impose sanctions with respect to the provision
of certain vessels for the construction of Russian energy
export pipelines; H.R. 3252, the ‘‘Global Respect Act’’;
H. Res. 259, expressing the sense of the House of Rep-
resentatives to support the repatriation of religious and
ethnic minorities in Iraq to their ancestral homelands; H.
Res. 432, condemning the attacks on peaceful protesters
and supporting an immediate peaceful transition to a ci-
vilian-led democratic government in Sudan; H. Res. 441,
condemning the attack on the AMIA Jewish Community
Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in July 1994 and ex-
pressing the concern of the United States regarding the
continuing, 25-year-long delay in the resolution of this
case and encouraging accountability for the attack; H.R.
2529, the ‘‘Richard G. Lugar and Ellen O. Tauscher Act
to Maintain Limits on Russian Nuclear Forces’’; H. Res.
444, reaffirming the importance of the United States to
promote the safety, health, and well-being of refugees and
displaced persons; and H.R. 2229, the ‘‘First Responders
Passport Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
June 20, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investiga-
tions, hearing entitled ‘‘The State Department and
USAID FY 2020 Operations Budget’’, 3 p.m., 2172 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Homeland Security, June 20, Subcommittee
on Border Security, Facilitation, and Operations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining the Department of Defense’s De-
ployment to the U.S.-Mexico Border’’, 10 a.m., 310 Can-
non.
Committee on House Administration, June 20, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Congressional
Research Service’’, 10 a.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, June 20, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Lessons from the Mueller Report, Part
II: Bipartisan Perspectives’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
June 21, Subcommittee on Intellectual Property and
the Internet, hearing entitled ‘‘The Federal Judiciary in
the 21st Century: Ideas for Promoting Ethics, Account-
ability, and Transparency’’, 9 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, June 20, Subcommittee
on Energy and Mineral Resources, hearing entitled ‘‘Oil
and Gas Development: Restoring Community Input and
Public Participation in Leasing Decisions’’, 10 a.m., 1324
Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, June 20, Sub-
committee on Government Operations, hearing entitled
‘‘Ensuring Quality Health Care for Our Veterans’’, 2
p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, June 20, Full
Committee, markup on H.R. 2528, the ‘‘STEM Opportu-
nities Act of 2019’’; H.R. 36, the ‘‘Combating Sexual
Harassment in Science Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3196, the
‘‘Vera Rubin Survey Telescope Designation Act’’; and
H.R. 3153, the ‘‘Expanding Findings for Federal Opioid
Research and Treatment Act’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, June 20, Subcommittee on
Economic Growth, Tax, and Capital Access, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The Importance of Accurate Census Data to Small
Business Formation and Growth’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, June 20,
Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous
Materials, hearing entitled ‘‘The State of the Rail Work-
force’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, June 20, Subcommittee
on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, hearing
entitled ‘‘Ensuring Access to Disability Benefits for Vet-
erans Survivors of Military Sexual Trauma’’, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
June 20, Full Committee, business meeting to assign
Representative Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan of North-
ern Mariana Islands to the Health Subcommittee, 2 p.m.,
HVC–210.
June 20, Full Committee, hearing on H.R. 2943, to
direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make all fact
sheets of the Department of Veterans Affairs in English
and Spanish; H.R. 2942, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to carry out the Women’s Health Transition
Training pilot program through at least fiscal year 2020,
and for other purposes; H.R. 2676, the ‘‘VA Survey of
Cannabis Use Act’’; H.R. 2677, to require the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to provide training in the use of med-
ical cannabis for all Department of Veterans Affairs pri-
mary care providers, and for other purposes; H.R. 712,
the ‘‘VA Medicinal Cannabis Research Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 1647, the ‘‘Veterans Equal Access Act’’; H.R. 3083,
the ‘‘AIR Acceleration Act’’; H.R. 485, the ‘‘VREASA’’;
legislation on Specially Adaptive Housing; and legislation
on Work Study, 2:05 p.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, June 20, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 3298, the ‘‘The Child Care
Quality and Access Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3299, the ‘‘The
Promoting Respect for Individuals’ Dignity and Equality
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3300, the ‘‘The Economic Mobility
Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3301, the ‘‘The Taxpayer Cer-
tainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2019’’, 9:30 a.m.,
1100 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, June 20,
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Cultivating Diversity
and Improving Retention Among Congressional Staff’’, 2
p.m., 2253 Rayburn.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: June 19,
to receive a briefing on international election observation
in the United States and beyond, 10 a.m., 2200, Rayburn
Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D700 June 18, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, June 19
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will resume consider-
ation of the nomination of Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern District of
Texas, post-cloture.
At 3:30 p.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nominations of Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas,
Allen Cothrel Winsor, to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Florida, James David Cain,
Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Western
District of Louisiana, and Greg Gerard Guidry, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.
Following disposition of the nomination of Greg Ge-
rard Guidry, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the motion to proceed to S. 1790, National
Defense Authorization Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, June 19
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
2740—Departments of Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2020.
Begin consideration of H.R. 3055—Commerce, Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2020 (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E790
Banks, Jim, Ind., E785
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E785, E786
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E783, E786
Collins, Doug, Ga., E786
Conaway, K. Michael, Tex., E782, E783
Cunningham, Joe, S.C., E790
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E786
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E781
Gottheimer, Josh, N.J., E788
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E787, E789
Grijalva, Raúl M., Ariz., E790
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E783
Hill, Katie, Calif., E781
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E789
Huizenga, Bill, Mich., E782
Joyce, John, Pa., E785
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E789
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E782
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E785
Norcross, Donald, N.J., E781
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E787
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E782
Rose, Max, N.Y., E781
Rouda, Harley, Calif. E790
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E789
Schneider, Bradley Scott, Ill., E784
Sensenbrenner, F. James, Jr., Wisc., E786, E788
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E787
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E784
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E787
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E783
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E786
Yoho, Ted S., Fla., E785
Zeldin, Lee M., N.Y., E789
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:43 Jun 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D18JN9.REC D18JNPT1
